Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Athletics About Tiger Athletics Calendar Tickets Facilities Give Now gotigersgo.com Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action gotigersgo.com Student Tickets Support Tiger Athletics Contact Us Follow Tiger Athletics Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home UofM Athletics Student Tickets Student Ticket Policy for Men's Basketball/Football Games Below is important information about student tickets for home men's basketball games at FedEx Forum and home football games at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium. Full-Time Students Full-time students (six hours or more for this purpose) with a valid University of Memphis ID will be admitted free of charge at each game. You must have your ID with you, or you will not be admitted. Part-Time Students Part-time students (five hours or less for this purpose) may purchase a $7 ticket for themselves at the Athletic Ticket Office located in the Penny Hardaway Hall of Fame at the Athletic Office Building (570 Normal Street) during regular office hours, Monday-Friday 8:00-4:30, while supplies last. Part-time student tickets will not be sold at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium, but will be available for cash only at FedExForum. Student Guest Tickets Students may purchase one guest ticket for men's basketball and up to two for football for each game at the Athletic Ticket Office for $10, while supplies last. Only a limited number of guest tickets will be available for each game and will be on sale the week of the game. Limited guest tickets will be available for cash only at FedExForum. Entrance & Seating Students and persons holding student guest tickets must enter through the student gate. Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium – Student entrance with ID is located at Gate 6 (Guests of Students will need a ticket to enter and can use East side of Gate 6). Gate 6 is located near South Hollywood Street entrance. The Student Section at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium will be ticketed as a General Admission (first-come, first-serve) seating area, the designated student section is Section 123 and 124. FedExForum – Student entrance with ID is located on the left side of the main entrance into FedExForum off of Third Street. Student seating is general admission in assigned sections 101 and 118. After IDs are scanned (and guest tickets taken) at FedExForum, each student (and guest) will be given a ticket for the game, which will then be scanned by FedExForum personnel. Students (and guests) wishing to sit together must enter together. As a general rule, seats are first-come, first-served, starting with the lower level of the student sections and moving to the upper level of the student sections. There are a limited number of seats in the student section at FedExForum. If all seats in the student section are filled, no more students (or guests) can be admitted, although every effort will be made to find additional seating. Parking FedExForum - Student parking spaces have been acquired for all home games. Students must show a valid University of Memphis ID for admittance to parking. Parking is limited and is available on a first-come first-served basis. The parking lot is located at 327 Gayoso Avenue, Memphis, TN 38103. There is a gate to this lot at 432 Beale Street between Danny Thomas Blvd and South 4th Street, which is closer to the FedExForum. Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium – A student tailgating lot has been established adjacent to the Liberty Bowl. A limited number of free parking passes for the student tailgating lot will be distributed from the UC Information Desk. Passes will be given out on a first come- first served basis. You will need your Student ID in order to pick up a parking pass. There is a limit of one pass per student. The student football tailgate section is in the Tan Lot near the Southern Avenue entrance and next to the Coliseum. Tailgate & Shuttle Info Student Game Day information may change from game to game, so check out the Blue Crew website for more info! Buses to FedExForum Buses for select home games for students will meet at Centennial Place (Norriswood and Patterson) approximately 90 minutes prior to game time and then leave approximately 60 minutes prior to the game. Seating is limited and available on a first-come, first-served basis. Buses make one trip to the game. Buses will not run during breaks and when the University is not in session. Schedule will be shared via email to students' @memphis.edu email accounts. When are Fall and Spring Only Semester IDs Valid? Fall students' IDs will be valid for entry to games through January 5. For students enrolled for the spring semester, IDs will be valid beginning January 14. Damaged Card If your ID card is damaged, you may receive a free replacement ID card at the Campus Card Office on the 5th floor of Wilder Tower upon presentation of your damaged card. What If Someone Uses Your ID? Please note that if your ID card is used by someone else, your ID will be confiscated and turned over to the Office of Student Conduct. What If the Student Section Fills Up? There are a limited number of seats in the student section at FedExForum and Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium. If all seats in the student section are filled, no more students (or guests) can be admitted, although every effort will be made to find additional seating. Disability Assistance Students who are registered with Disability Resources for Students, who may need assistance with special seating, should contact the Memphis Ticket Office at tigertickets@memphis.edu at least 24 hours prior to each game if they wish to attend. Admission to Additional Athletic Events Students are also admitted free to Women's Basketball and Baseball home games. Home events for Men's Soccer, Women's Soccer, Softball, Volleyball, Men's Tennis, Women's Tennis and Track and Field are free to the public. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/23/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.