Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Environmental Health Sciences Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Environmental Health Sciences (EHS) Environmental Health Sciences conducts research and education to understand, prevent, and mitigate the impact of environmental exposures and climate change on human health. navas_teach_30729746148.jpg Degree Programs We offer four different degrees that explore the environment and explain how it contributes to health. Read More ehs_primer_group_shot_try_6.jpg PrIMER Program Take a look at some of our past trainees' accomplishments! Read More sharp-ehs-carousel.jpg Join us this summer! 20+ skills-based boot camps led by experts in the field, many of which are applicable to environmental health research. Read More ehs_micaela_treelights_student.jpg Research Centers and Programs There are seven centers and programs within EHS focused on laboratory and community-based research, which informs and influences policy, advocacy, and action around the world. Read More ehs-557a5342.jpg Students Our students' academic enrichment is a priority. Faculty and staff are actively engaged in mentoring and teaching students. Read More ehs_hb-1500x632.jpg Experts Call for Home Battery Storage to Protect Vulnerable During Outages Extreme weather driven by climate change is making power outages more commonplace even as the need for electricity-dependent home health equipment grows. Read More Who We Are Programs Research News and Events Faculty Contact Us Message from the Chair "Our planet is our home. It belongs to all of us. Yet our home is burdened by a myriad of environmental threats..." Read More Why EHS? Learn directly from our faculty about the importance of studying Environmental Health Sciences and why they do their research at Columbia. Also, are you interested in working with us? Check out our open positions here! Centers & Programs Our research looks at every facet of how the environment and climate change impact human health. Students Our talented students draw on their diverse backgrounds when developing the expertise needed to excel in the rapidly evolving environmental health field. Faculty Meet our esteemed faculty, who have a wide range of expertise throughout the environmental health field. Look at our faculty spotlights here! News Read the latest environmental health news and research from our faculty. Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers