Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Programs : School Librarian Certificate Program School Librarian Certificate Program alt="A group of students studies in the distance beyond two bookshelves" School Librarian Certificate Program Application Deadline: 2020 Summer Apply Now Apply Now Thinking about becoming a school librarian? It’s the best job on campus! School librarians have a broad influence on teaching and learning across the grade levels. They collaborate with teachers to plan, teach, and assess inquiry-based projects, integrating information literacy skills and technology tools at point of need in the curriculum. They engage students and the broader school community in excellent and entertaining books and exciting literacy programs to cultivate a culture of reading and promote skills and attitudes for life-long learning. School librarians make books and digital resources available for all students, equalizing information access across the school community. And it doesn’t stop there… Join the next cohort of dynamic school librarian certificate students at the UT Austin School of Information! Become a School Librarian To be a librarian in a public school in Texas, you must: Hold a master’s degree from an accredited institution of higher education. Don't have a master's? You can earn one through our School Librarian Certificate Program! Successfully complete an Educator Preparation Program (School Librarian Certificate Program), including a 160-hour practicum Pass the School Librarian’s TExES (Texas Examination of Educator Standards) Have two years of classroom teaching experience in a public or accredited private school. Who should apply? Certified teachers who want to make a broader impact on teaching and learning at their schools and who have at least two years of full time classroom teaching experience from a public or accredited private school. Application Deadline February 1, 2022 (Summer 2022 cohort) Apply Now About the Program Coursework The Educational Preparation Program consists of 15 hours of instruction over four semester-long courses and a practicum. For degree-seeking students, these courses count 15 hours toward the 36-hour master’s program. Learn More School Library Practicum The practicum is required for all students seeking Standard School Librarian Certification in the state of Texas and involves assignment to two different school libraries under supervision of qualified personnel for at least 160 hours. Learn More Requirements & Notices In order to apply for Standard School Librarian Certification, students must meet these State Board for Educator Certification (SBEC) requirements. Learn More Frequently Asked Questions Here are some answers to the most commonly asked questions regarding the School Librarian Certificate Program. Learn More School Librarian Certificate Program Coordinator Dr. Barbara Jansen bajansen@utexas.edu (512) 232-4696 UTA 5.402 Please contact Dr. Barbara Jansen directly with any questions you have regarding the School Librarian Certificate Program. Program Overview Coursework School Library Practicum Requirements & Notices Timeline Frequently Asked Questions Certification in Other States Register a Complaint Program Handbook School Librarian Certificate Share this Email Twitter LinkedIn UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022