Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Honors Program Internships Scholarships & Awards Study Abroad Career Services Recommendation Request Student Complaint Procedure Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home College of Health Sciences Students College of Health Sciences Students Experiential Learning Credit Would you like to receive college credit hours for holding a professional certificate (e.g., personal training, group exercise, medical assistant)? How about receiving one college credit hour for holding a provider card for CPR/basic life support? View our pre-assessed list of certificates approved by College of Health Sciences faculty and save both time and money as you work to complete your degree program! Credit by Exam Opportunities The College of Health Sciences appreciates the knowledge and skills that students bring to the program. Accordingly, students can be awarded college-level credit by passing a comprehensive exam. This option can help to significantly reduce program costs and timeline to degree completion. Enrolled/admitted undergraduate students must have a minimum GPA of 2.0. The fee is $60 per course. Fees must be paid prior to the examination and are non-refundable. For more information on the credit by exam process, visit Credit by Exam, or contact us at healthsciences@memphis.edu or 901.678.4316. Learn More Complete to Compete Make the most of your college experience, finish your 4-year degree in four years. Firmly commit to a major that excites you—your advisor can help! Remain continuously enrolled every semester—stay focused on the end goal Register for 15 or more credit hours every semester—this will save you money! Take advantage of academic advising resources—set an appointment with your advisor every semester Use learning resources, including free tutoring Attend class and attend class prepared...students who attend perform better. Earn credit for prior learning—consider Credit by Exam and Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) as options Gain practical experience—complete an internship Be an engaged student—interact with professors outside of class, join a student organization or club, and network with others in your area of study Live on or near campus—convenience will aid engagement and class attendance Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.