Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Resources Home Resources Current Student Resources Current Student Resources Dedman College Merit Scholarships Are you a current student with a declared major in Dedman College? As a continuing Dedman College student, you are also eligible for scholarship consideration! We award departmental scholarships once a year, typically before the beginning of the fall semester and are awarded for the fall and spring semesters. Learn more University Honors Program The University Honors Program, open to students of all majors, is at the heart of SMU’s intellectual community. Students are prepared for the future through a program that centers on the values of a broad-based education in the humanities and sciences. Learn more University Advising Center All entering SMU students are assigned an advisor in the UAC. The UAC partners with pre-major students as they take ownership of their academic experiences at SMU and develop independent informed decision-making skills. Learn more Dedman College Records and Academic Services Office responsible for Dedman College policy and procedures, petitions, major/minor changes, and graduation certification. Learn more Hegi Career Center The Hegi Family Career Development Center at SMU is dedicated to serving the needs of SMU students and alumni, as well as assisting employers in reaching qualified SMU candidates. Learn more Engaged Learning The Engaged Learning program is a campus-wide initiative to enhance student learning with experiential learning opportunities through its programs: the Engaged Learning Fellowship, Big Ideas, Clinton Global University, and various other campus partner opportunities. Learn more ESL The English as a Second Language (ESL) program at SMU is designed to assist non-native English speaking students to succeed at the University level. Learn more Current Student Resources Merit Scholarships University Honors Program University Advising Center Hegi Career Center Engaged Learning ESL University Calendar Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube