Promote Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Events Secondary Navigation Main Event Calendar Plan Promote Academic Calendar TC Events Promote Section Menu Toggle Tertiary Menu Add and Promote Events Posting to the Eboard Eboard Posting Guidelines Promoting an event There are many ways to plan and promote your event at Teachers College. Please use the links on this page for getting your event listed on the TC site and other communication channels. Display your event on the online calendar If you have a T4 account, you can add events to the calendar through your site following our instructions and guidelines. You may request an account that you can use to post an event to the TC event calendar. Post your event to the TC Eboard The eBoards are located throughout main level hallways and the cafeteria and they can help to advertise upcoming events. You may request posting an event on the eBoards by logging in to the eboard submissions system using your Columbia ID and password. Post to the MyTC Message Board The MyTC Message Center is a general communication hub for the Teachers College community and posting is open to all members, although a few categories are restricted to particular offices. Log into the portal for more information. Social Media TC has an active presence on many social media accounts with many different voices. Your department, program or center may already have a social media account, check here for more info. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University Address: 525 West 120th Street, New York, NY 10027 Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links