Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Resources & Events>Career Opportunities & Awards Career Opportunities & Awards In addition to one-on-one advising by Honors College faculty and staff, the Honors College and the Baylor Career Center have a close partnership and work to create exceptional opportunities for our Honors College students. Regardless of major, program, or vocational/professional aspirations, the Honors College encourages all students, Freshmen through Seniors, to engage with the Baylor Career Center. The mission of Baylor Career Center is to empower students for their professional pursuits. This includes bringing clarity and helping define career goals; connecting to mentors and alumni in desired career fields; reviewing application materials, internships, research opportunities, graduate school, and full-time positions; setting goals and timelines for applying to graduate and professional school and building an intentional job search strategy. CLICK HERE for more information about Baylor's Career Center services or stop by Sid Richardson Building, Room 132. All students should also log into Handshake for career resources intended specifically for Honors College students. Students may make appointments with the Baylor Career Center via Handshake as well. 4 Year Plan for Career Success Wondering what's next for you and where to start? Whether you're interested in research, internships, graduate school, or are ready to start a professional career, track your progress on the 4 Year Plan for Career Success, created for Honors College students in partnership with the Baylor Career Center. Sample of Employers Seeking Honors College Students: Great Hearts Academies Great Hearts Academies is a non-profit network of thirty charter schools in Arizona and Texas, offering a core, classical liberal arts curriculum. We gladly prepare our graduates for success in the best colleges and universities in the nation, but our main purpose is the formation of the soul, heart, and mind. We believe that the highest goal of education is to become good, intellectually and morally. For more information, click HERE or contact Bobby Goodrich at bobby.goodrich@greatheartstx.org. Valor Public Schools Valor Public Schools operates K–12 Classical public charter schools in Austin, Texas. Valor’s mission is to educate the whole person for authentic freedom and fully human life. Our educational vision is grounded in the classical tradition, which identifies wisdom and virtue as the ultimate goals of education. We believe that every student has a desire for knowledge and a capacity for excellence. In all facets of school life, we inspire students to seek what is true, good, and beautiful, cultivating their natural sense of wonder. For more information, click HERE or contact Conor Hill at chill@valorpublicschools.org. Southern Teachers Agency Southern Teachers is the oldest teacher recruitment company in America. We work with over 600 schools around the South, helping them to find talented teachers and administrators. Our services for candidates are free. While formal teacher training in a college education department is helpful, private schools have significant latitude with certification and can typically hire candidates to teach in their major field of study. That is to say, you don’t necessarily need an education degree or teacher certification to get a job. Want a good job? A great life? Be a Teacher! Apply now HERE or contact Joseph Bromfield bromfield@southernteachers.com. ACE Teaching Fellows ACE Teaching Fellows forms talented, faith-filled college graduates to renew and transform Catholic school classrooms. ACE teachers form a select cohort of the nation’s top emerging Catholic school teachers and leaders, and through ACE’s innovative instructional model, they develop the skills and knowledge necessary to serve some of the most under-resourced schools in the United States. The three pillars of ACE—teacher formation, community, and spiritual growth—inform, inspire, and mobilize ACE teachers throughout their time in the program and beyond. For more information, click HERE or contact Kevin Fitzsimmons at Kevin.P.Fitzsimmons.18@nd.edu. Brazos Fellows Brazos Fellows seeks to prepare women and men for lives of mature Christian discipleship. Through a variety of educational experiences – a course of study, guided learning, guest lectures, and retreats – fellows gain a theological framework for their future work, study, and ministry. Fellows commit to a Rule of Life and participate individually and communally in ancient Christian practices. Together these disciplines aim at personal and communal growth in Christ-likeness. Through prayer, mentoring, and professional coaching, fellows will grow in awareness of their strengths and unique design in order to discern God’s various calls on their lives. In addition to joining the life of Christ Church, fellows eat, pray, and discuss together as a cohort, all the while seeking the flourishing of transformative friendships and genuine community. For more information, click HERE or contact Paul Gutacker at director@brazosfellows.com. Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give