Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Community Innovation and Education To thrive, communities need highly trained professionals dedicated to creating innovative opportunities for civic engagement and transformative education. Thanks to public and private partnerships, you will participate in ground-breaking research and gain practical experience through internships, practicums and policy-development programs led by world-renowned faculty. And after graduation, you’ll create big impact on the people you serve with a rewarding career in education, public administration and affairs, legal studies, criminal justice or health management and informatics. ccie.ucf.edu The College of Community Innovation and Education is the anchor college to UCF Downtown. Ten graduate academic programs in the College of Community Innovation and Education were ranked in the top 100 nationwide by U.S. News & World Report (2019). College of Community Innovation and Education students spend over 543,000 hours teaching, serving and researching in agencies, clinics, communities, industry, and schools. Explore your opportunities. There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Community Innovation and Education has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Masters Doctorates Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Elementary Education (BS) Health Services Administration (BS) Criminal Justice (BS) Legal Studies (BS) Secondary Education (BS) Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) Counselor Education (MA) Public Administration (BS) Educational Leadership (MEd) Nonprofit Management (MNM) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Kickin’ It New School A cutting-edge classroom simulator at UCF is helping educators become better teachers. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida