Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Public Health MPH school School of Public Health Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Brown MPH is rooted in the University’s tradition of academic excellence and collaborative synergies, much like the field of public health itself. Students and faculty move freely among our research centers and academic departments—across and beyond the university, too. Brown MPH graduates go on to make important public health contributions in academic settings, government agencies, consulting firms, and non-profits. Brown is an internationally recognized leader in public health research, and the University is home to thirteen nationally-renowned public health research centers. The MPH program has an unusually high faculty–to–student ratio. Students have a great deal of interaction with faculty, who are accessible, approachable, and encouraging of student involvement in critical projects. Innovative curriculum requirements, such as community and analytic internships, make the program academically rigorous while providing unparalleled access to ongoing research and immersion in public health practice. Additional Resources The Master of Public Health Program enjoys a privileged relationship with the Rhode Island Department of Health. This partnership affords students exceptional research opportunities and participation in community service and data analytic internships through the Department of Health and other state and community agencies. Admission Information Inquire Applicants to this School of Public Health program should apply through SOPHAS, a centralized application service for accredited schools and programs in public health. Application to the Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH is done through SOPHAS Express. Comprehensive application requirements are detailed on the School of Public Health's admissions requirements website. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Official Transcripts: Required Letters of Recommendations: Letters of Recommendation (3) Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: Application Fee International Applicants: Language Proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS if applicable) Transcript Evaluation (if applicable) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 15, 2022 Financial Aid Most students are self-supported through a combination of scholarships, loans, outside funding, and/or assistantships. Please visit the master's funding website for more information. Completion Requirements Effective Fall 2022, students are required to successfully complete 12 course credits (11 full courses and 2 half credit courses) and complete an internship and a thesis. Full–time students typically take 6.5 courses in the first year and 5.5 courses in the second year. This change is in effect for students who started the program in Fall 2021 or later. Students who started the MPH Program prior to Fall 2021 are required to successfully complete 13 course credits (12 full credit courses and 2 half credit courses) and complete an internship and a thesis. Full–time students typically take 6.5 courses/year. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Dean of the School of Public Health Ashish K. Jha ashish_jha@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Annie Gjelsvik annie_gjelsvik@brown.edu Contact and Location School of Public Health Mailing Address Brown University Box G-S121, 4th Floor Diane_Schlacter@brown.edu 401-863-2059 Visit the School of Public Health Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Public Health Career Outcomes Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Public Health Open details for Public Health Bookmark this Page