Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training Undergraduate Students Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Postdocs Postdocs in Brain Science The purpose of the Postdocs in Brain Science (PIBS) program is to foster a sense of community among postdocs and to encourage discussion about scientific, professional development, and policy-related issues. Our aims are: To encourage interdisciplinary communication To support postdocs' professional development To establish a community and support network that promotes a welcoming environment for all Carney-affiliated postdocs and their families With sponsorship from the Carney Institute for Brain Science, we have built a community for young professionals interested in the brain, and have worked behind the scenes to ensure that University policies promote a healthy lifestyle for its postdocs. We host a number of activities for postdocs, including social gatherings, professional development events, and lunch meetings with invited speakers. For information about postdoctoral positions at the Carney Institute, please visit the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies website. Brain Science External Postdoc Seminar Series The Carney Institute's Brain Science External Postdoc Seminar Series (BrainExPo) showcases the work of advanced postdoctoral scholars from around the world. The goal of this series is to: 1) provide a platform for early-career scientists to share their research and network with Carney's brain science community, and 2) provide an opportunity for the institute's community of faculty, postdoctoral researchers and graduate and undergraduate students to hear about new innovative research. Visit the BrainExPo web page for more information and upcoming seminars. For upcoming social, scientific, and career development events, join the PIBSBrown google group or email the Executive Committee. If you are already a member of the PIBSBrown Google group, you may email the rest of the group at [email protected]. If you are interested in becoming more involved, helping organize an event, or joining the Executive Committee, email [email protected]. For more information about resources available to the broader postdoc community, visit Postdocs at Brown. Training Undergraduate Students Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top