Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Resources Home Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Find all the forms, processes, procedures, and information you need in the following pages. Remote Teaching and Working Resources to help you keep working in times of disruption. Learn More Faculty and Staff Recruitment SMU and Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences offer excellent career opportunities for individuals who wish to excel. Learn more Academic Affairs The Office of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs at Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences has responsibility for curriculum review, faculty tenure and promotion, and faculty recruiting. Visit the Academic Affairs section to review the forms library, promotions and tenure policies and procedures, new course and program proposals, DC advisory council, and council committee minutes. Learn more Internal Research Resources Research is at the heart of SMU’s mission. Consistent with this, Dedman College provides a number of mechanisms to facilitate and support the research creativity and productivity of its faculty members. Find internal research resources such as grants, workshops, travel and contact information. Learn more Academic Technology Services Academic Technology Services embeds an Academic Technology Services Director (ATSD) in every college and school at SMU. The ATSD office for Dedman College supports students, faculty, and staff in many ways. Learn more Marketing Support Submit a request for marketing support. Learn more Faculty and Staff Resources Remote Teaching and Working Faculty and Staff Recruitment Academic Affairs Internal Research Resources Academic Technology Emergency Procedures Marketing Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube