Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton undergraduate Justin Lim dies in Chicago by the Office of Communications May 20, 2022, 12:23 p.m. Justin Se Geun Lim, a member of the Class of 2025, died Tuesday, May 17, at his home in Chicago. He was 19 years old. Lim lost his life to mental illness, his parents said. He was a graduate of the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools. At Princeton, he planned to concentrate in operations research and financial engineering and to pursue a career in finance. A member of Mathey College, Lim was a participant in the Scholars of Finance club. He also played tennis off campus. Lim is survived by his mother, Peggy, father, Yung Bong, Class of 1987, and a brother, Jake, Class of 2023. A memorial service will be held at 6 p.m. Central Time (7 p.m. Eastern Time) on Thursday, May 26, at Gordon Parks Arts Hall at the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools, 5815 S. Kimbark Ave., Chicago, IL, 60637. The service will also be livestreamed on the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools YouTube channel. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to a memorial fund in Lim’s name. Gifts in his memory may be made by check payable to “The Trustees of Princeton University,” with a note in the memo line "Justin Se Geun Lim ‘25 Memorial Fund." Mail to Princeton University, Alumni and Donor Records, Helen Hardy, P.O. Box 5357, Princeton, NJ 08543-5357. Princeton has extended condolences to the family and is hosting opportunities for students to gather and reflect, including a moment of remembrance held via Zoom on Thursday, May 19. CPS/TigerWell Outreach Counselors will hold virtual, confidential drop-in hours during the coming week for individual students who need support. Times and details are available in the student email. Students can also access a counselor any time between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday by walking into McCosh Health Center and requesting to see a counselor on Urgent Care. Resources and support are available to all University students throughout the year. Students can contact campus Counseling and Psychological Services at 609-258-3141, the Office of Religious Life and residential college staff. Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice