By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Work at Syracuse In this Section Dual Career Work at Syracuse We are a university with a culture of high expectations for everyone—and a work ethic to match. The Syracuse University community is one of undeniable spirit and extraordinary academics. If you’re ready to welcome, challenge, appreciate, and engage our students, all while growing professionally and bleeding Orange, we’d love to hear from you. Search job openings Why Syracuse? Work/Life Balance We provide our employees with an environment that fosters work/life balance, growth, and community involvement, and encourage them to engage in a wide variety of educational, cultural, and recreational opportunities in a workplace that is diverse and professional. Comprehensive Benefits We offer an outstanding comprehensive compensation and benefit package [PDF, 4.1MB] . As a progressive, family-friendly employer, we provide staff with a program that is flexible and responsive to the life changes individuals may experience during their employment. The majority of Syracuse University benefits are eligible to qualified employees immediately upon hire. A Place to Call Home Located in the heart of New York State, the City of Syracuse has something for everyone. From the quiet suburbs to its vibrant downtown, Syracuse offers plenty of affordable housing, unique restaurants, and recreational activities. Dual Career Assistance As part of Syracuse University’s commitment to facilitate the adjustment of new faculty and professional staff, the University provides career services for spouses or partners. Health and Wellness We’re also devoted to the health and well-being of every staff member. The Syracuse University Wellness Initiative’s mission is to provide learning opportunities, activities, programs, and other resources that empower and encourage faculty and staff to lead a balanced and healthy lifestyle. To learn more or receive assistance, get in touch with our Human Resources Service Center at 315.443.4042 or by emailing hrservice@syr.edu . Save Save Related Pages Federal Work-Study Federal Work-Study (FWS) is a part-time employment program. Students can work on- or off-campus, and wages vary depending on the position. Plan Your Visit Whether you’re a prospective student or family member, visiting faculty member, alumnus, sports fan, business partner, or any other friend of the University, you’ll find information to help make the most of your time here. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy