Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computer Security and Digital Forensics Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computer Security and Digital Forensics Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Computer Security and Digital Forensics Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Computer Security and Digital Forensics Undergraduate Certificate Study security measures that protect network systems and data with the Undergraduate Certificate in Computer Security and Digital Forensics from Temple’s College of Science and Technology. As threats to security increase, so does the need for professionals with backgrounds in computer and information security. Students in this 10-credit-hour certificate program form a deeper knowledge of computer systems and digital forensics, broadening their career opportunities and professional goals. Courses focus on computer and information systems, the laws involved with information security and security breach investigations. Required course topics include criminal justice, an introduction to the laws in the criminal justice system and enforcement of these laws; digital forensics, focused on the cyber crime laws, information analysis and reporting, and investigation techniques; and network security, a thorough review of computer systems, email and web security. Who might be interested? The Computer Security and Digital Forensics Certificate (Undergraduate) is open only to those students who are majoring in Computer and Information Sciences programs. It is tailored for students in programs such as Computer Science, Information Science and Technology, and Computer Science and Mathematics, as well as professionals currently working in information technology (IT) fields who are seeking advanced experience. Students receive a solid background in the various types of security breaches and how they are prevented, as well as an understanding of computer networks and systems. This certificate can be added to your existing curriculum, affording you the opportunity to learn more about specific technology methods for security breach prevention. Credit Requirements To earn this certificate, you must complete 10 credits of coursework. Undergraduate students in Computer and Information Science programs must complete four required courses prior to beginning the certificate program. Undergraduate students must take at least two courses for the certificate that are not counted toward any elective requirements for their major. Students who are currently working in IT must have at least two years of experience with security domains or systems and network administration. Current students pursuing academic degrees in programs outside of the College of Science and Technology may need approval before adding this certificate to their curriculum. Learn more about requirements for the Computer Security and Digital Forensics Undergraduate Certificate. Delivery Method All classes take place in person at Temple’s Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum Students are required to complete three courses during their studies, including Computer and Network Security or Wireless Networks and Security; Introduction to Criminal Justice or Computer Crimes; and Introduction to Digital Forensics. Learn more about required courses for the Computer Security and Digital Forensics Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Gene Kwatny, professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences, is a program contact for the Computer Security and Digital Forensics Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-8450 Email: gene.kwatny@temple.edu Jamie Payton, chair and associate professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences, is a program contact for the Computer Security and Digital Forensics Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-1237 Email: payton@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CSDF-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Computer Security and Digital Forensics Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info