Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Environment Date October 15, 2020 2020-10-15 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Researchers step toward understanding how toxic PFAS chemicals spread from release sites New lab studies are helping researchers to better understand how so called “forever chemicals” behave in soil and water, which can help in understanding how these contaminants spread. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — A study led by Brown University researchers sheds new light on how pollutants found in firefighting foams are distributed in water and surface soil at release sites. The findings could help researchers to better predict how pollutants in these foams spread from the spill or release sites — fire training areas or airplane crash sites, for example — into drinking water supplies. Firefighting foams, also known as aqueous film forming foams (AFFF), are often used to combat fires involving highly flammable liquids like jet fuel. The foams contain a wide range of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) including PFOA, PFOS and FOSA. Many of these compounds have been linked to cancer, developmental problems and other conditions in adults and children. PFAS are sometimes referred to as “forever chemicals” because they are difficult to break down in the environment and can lead to long-term contamination of soil and water supplies. “We’re interested in what’s referred to as the fate and transport of these chemicals,” said Kurt Pennell, a professor in Brown’s School of Engineering and co-author of the research. “When these foams get into the soil, we want to be able to predict how long it’s going to take to reach a water body or a drinking water well, and how long the water will need to be treated to remove the contaminants.” It had been shown previously that PFAS compounds tend to accumulate at interfaces between water and other substances. Near the surface, for example, PFAS tend to collect at the air-water interface — the moist but unsaturated soil at the top of an aquifer. However, prior experiments showing this interface activity were conducted only with individual PFAS compounds, not with complex mixtures of compounds like firefighting foams. “You can’t assume that PFOS or PFOA alone are going to act the same way as a mixture with other compounds,” said Pennell, who is also a fellow at the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society. “So this was an effort to try to tease out the differences between the individual compounds, and to see how they behave in these more complex mixtures like firefighting foams.” Using a series of laboratory experiments described in the journal Environmental Science and Technology, Pennell and his colleagues showed that the firefighting foam mixture does indeed behave much differently than individual compounds. The research showed that the foams had a far greater affinity for the air-water interface than individual compounds. The foams had more than twice the interface activity of PFOS alone, for example. Pennell says that insights like these can help researchers to model how PFAS compounds migrate from contaminated sites. “We want to come up with the basic equations that describe the behavior of these compounds in the lab, then incorporate those equations into models that can be applied in field,” Pennell said. “This work is the beginning of that process, and we’ll scale it up from here.” Ultimately, the hope is that a better understanding of the fate and transport of these compounds could help to identify wells and waterways at risk for contamination, and aid in cleaning those sites up. Co-authors on the paper Jed Costanza and Linda Abriola. Funding for the research was provided by the Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program (W912HQ-18-C-0014). Tags IBES Research School of Engineering Related news: Environment Climate scientist Kim Cobb to lead Institute at Brown for Environment and Society May 11, 2022 A climate scientist and professor who comes to Brown from Georgia Tech, Cobb will lead IBES, an academic hub for scholars exploring the interactions between natural, human and social systems. Read Article Open details for Climate scientist Kim Cobb to lead Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Environment Brown professor to lead World Meteorological Organization’s research board January 11, 2022 Amanda Lynch, a Brown University professor and inaugural director of the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, will chair the board responsible for guiding the World Meteorological Organization’s research agenda. Read Article Open details for Brown professor to lead World Meteorological Organization’s research board Environment Brown environmental expert testifies on equity in renewable energy before U.S. House committee July 16, 2021 Myles Lennon, an assistant professor of environment and society and anthropology, urged members of Congress to support renewable energy research and innovation that could aid and protect marginalized communities in the U.S. Read Article Open details for Brown environmental expert testifies on equity in renewable energy before U.S. House committee Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Researchers step toward understanding how toxic PFAS chemicals spread from release sites Open details for Researchers step toward understanding how toxic PFAS chemicals spread from release sites Bookmark this Page