Skip to main content Research & Creative Activities Main navigation About UCLA Research Vice Chancellor Research Across Campus Research & Creative Activities Organization Statistics & News Campus Announcements Newsletter Research Highlights Engage with UCLA Research Find Ways to Engage Entrepreneurship Libraries Researcher Resources Student Research Initiatives Open Search Search the site: Ramping Up UCLA Research Effective June 1, 2021, a Research Operational Plan (ROP) is no longer required for research and creative activities, both on-campus and in the field. Read more Featured Stories Roger Wakimoto champions the arts and creative activities Vice chancellor for research promotes interdisciplinary solutions and inclusive research enterprise. Read more Chancellor’s Arts Initiative funds grant to support faculty’s arts-based research Projects will be featured on the GO ARTS UCLA online platform, launched May 6, 2021. Read more Eight UCLA professors awarded 2021 Guggenheim Fellowships UCLA leads all universities & academic institutions with 8 recipients, in fields ranging from anthropology, linguistics & fine arts to engineering, photography & biology. Recipients are given freedom & funding to pursue scholarship & creative activities. Read more UCLA Film & Television Archive highlights groundbreaking LGBTQ series “In the Life” UCLA’s archive of the groundbreaking news magazine “In the Life” is an important record of the history of the LGBTQ movement. The publicly available content documents the history & contributions of LGBTQ people in the latter half of the 20th century. Read more UCLA law students’ research contributes to shaping California wildfire legislation Research by UCLA law students in the California Environmental Legislation and Policy Clinic informed pending legislation designed to help California adapt to the impacts of climate change, including mitigating wildfire risks. Read more Study by UCLA Center for Health Policy Research reveals the importance of analyzing COVID-19 data by ethnic subgroup A UCLA study suggests that breaking out COVID-19 data for Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander & Asian ethnic subgroups would enable more precise identification of the hardest-hit communities and facilitate more effective deployment of outreach & resources. Read more UCLA undergraduates make research pivot and publish paper about remote learning disparities The shift to remote leaning spurred UCLA undergraduates to pivot their research to remote learning disparities amongst their fellow Bruins. Their work provides valuable information for campus leaders and has been accepted for publication. Read more UCLA Grand Challenges Solving society’s most critical problems. Read more One Billion Dollars. That’s the average amount UCLA has received to fund research projects each year since 2009-10. UCLA research and creative activities have generated some of the most transformative breakthroughs in modern times. From revolutionizing medical diagnostics and treatment to laying the framework to create the Internet or reshaping our understanding of the human condition, UCLA's research impact extends around the globe. As one of the world’s top research universities, UCLA has the intellectual capital and extensive research facilities necessary to tackle society’s most challenging issues. And as a public research university, we take seriously our mission to develop solutions that improve the quality of life in our community, our country and around the world. Included among our faculty, alumni and researchers are 14 Nobel Prize winners, 13 faculty MacArthur Fellows, a Fields medalist, two Turing Award winners, and three Pulitzer Prize winners. Explore our site to learn more about us, research highlights, resources for researchers, how to engage with UCLA research and our initiatives. Organization of Research Enterprise Experienced teams provide support services to enable researchers to pursue inquiries and discovery. Learn more about the subsidiary offices that help to administer and support research and creative activities conducted at UCLA. Office of Research Administration (ORA) Technology Development Group (TDG) Research Enhancement Office (REO) Research Policy & Compliance (RPC) UCLA Research in the Newsroom Study assesses mental health effects of pandemic-related school closures May 26, 2022 Q&amp;A: What you need to know about monkeypox May 26, 2022 UCLA provides grants to enhance understanding of Black life and racial disparities May 25, 2022 UCLA study identifies how the brain links memories May 25, 2022 UCLA, Charles R. Drew University receive $11M grant to address inequities in HIV care, prevention May 23, 2022 Subscribe to UCLA News Campus Announcements Undergraduate Research Center Invites the Bruin Community to Undergraduate Research Week 30-Day Public Review for UCLA Policy 993: Responding to Allegations of Research Misconduct 2022-23 Faculty Research Lecture Call for Nominations APPLY NOW: UCLA Sustainable LA Grand Challenge Undergraduate Research Scholars Program 2022-23 30-Day Public Review for UCLA Policy 992: Use of Biohazardous Materials and Recombinant or Synthetic Nucleic Acid Molecules in Research and Teaching Activities View all (310) 825-7943 ovcr@conet.ucla.edu Subscribe to the ORCA Updates newsletter Share Your Research News Campus Announcements © 2022 Regents of University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram Follow on Snapchat Follow on LinkedIn Follow on YouTube