Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Teacher Education (BS) – World Languages Education – Education Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Teacher Education B.S. - World Languages Education program offers students the option of two tracks: World Languages Education - Education Track and World Languages Education - Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification). Within the Education track, specializations are available in Spanish or French. Students pursuing the Education Track are required to complete the World Languages Education - English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) Minor. The Education Track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, K-12 schools that require certification. This Teacher Education B.S. - World Languages Education program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Teacher-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution. Complete the EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the foreign language admission requirement. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. The Education Track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 3rd Grade Reading Teacher 7th Grade Social Studies Teacher Counselor Education Professor Early Childhood Teacher Grades 1 Thru 5 Teacher High School Biology Teacher High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School History Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Music Director High School Teacher Junior High School Teacher Mathematics Education Professor Middle School Science Teacher Pre-Kindergarten Teacher Preschool Teacher Primary Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Special Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Teacher Education (BS) - World Languages Education - Education Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Teacher Education B.S. - World Languages Education program offers students the option of two tracks: World Languages Education - Education Track and World Languages Education - Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification). Within the Education track, specializations are available in Spanish or French. Students pursuing the Education Track are required to complete the World Languages Education - English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) Minor. The Education Track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, K-12 schools that require certification. This Teacher Education B.S. - World Languages Education program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Teacher-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution. Complete the EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the foreign language admission requirement. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. The Education Track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. Education Core Requirements 18 Total Credits Complete all of the following EDG 4410 and TSL 4080 are prerequisites for Internship I Complete the following: EDG4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) EDF4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment (3) RED4043 - Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 (3) EEX4242 - Teaching Exceptional Students in Secondary Settings (3) EDF4603 - Analysis and Application of Ethical, Legal, and Safety Issues in Schools (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) Education Track Specialization Requirements 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. Complete the following: FLE4340 - Teaching World Languages in K-12 Schools (3) TSL4240 - Issues in Second Language Acquisition (3) TSL4520 - ESOL Cultural Diversity (3) TSL4942 - ESOL Field Experience (3) TSL4943 - L2 Academic Language Instruction (3) Internship I Block 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Program Internship I Prerequisites: EDG 4410,TSL 4080, all Common Program Prerequisites, all Core Requirements: Basic Level, and at least 50% of all required specialization courses (including restricted electives) must be completed before doing Internship I with a minimum grade of "C-" or better. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission into Internship I. Passing score on the General Knowledge Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is required before entry into Internship I. Passing score on the Professional Education Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is strongly recommended as soon as possible after completing the following courses: EDG 4410, EDF 4467, RED 4043, and TSL 4080. Students must apply and be approved for Internship I. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: FLE 3940 - Internship Internship II Block 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following At least 80% of all required specialization courses (including restricted electives) and all education/methods courses must be completed with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better before entry into Internship II. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for entry into Internship II Passing scores on all sections [General Knowledge, Professional, and Subject Area (aligned to specialization area) of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE)] are required prior to admission into Internship II. Students must apply and be approved for Internship II. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Satisfactory completion of Internship II requires the student to demonstrate proficiency in all Florida Educator Accomplished Practices in accordance with State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Complete the following: ESE4033C - Critical Issues and Trends in Secondary Education (3) Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: FLE 4941 - Internship World Languages Specialization 30 Total Credits Complete all of the following A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. Earn at least 30 credits from the following types of courses: Select Spanish Specialization or French Specialization Spanish (K-12) Core (27 Credit Hours) Students pursuing the World Languages Education Spanish Specialization must pass the Florida Teacher Certification Examination: Subject Area Examination - Spanish K-12 SPN 2201 - Intermediate Spanish Language and Civilization II Credit Hours: 3 SPN 3300 - Advanced Spanish Grammar and Composition Credit Hours: 3 SPN 3420 - Spanish Composition Credit Hours: 3 SPW 3100 - Survey of Spanish Literature I Credit Hours: 3 2 SPN 3760 - Advanced Spanish Oral Communication Credit Hours: 3 SPW 3101 - Survey of Spanish Literature II Credit Hours: 3 2 SPN 3344 - Advanced Spanish Native Fluency I Credit Hours: 3 SPN 3345 - Advanced Spanish Native Fluency II Credit Hours: 3 SPN 4520 - Latin American Civilization and Culture Credit Hours: 3 2 SPW 3130 and SPW 3131 may substitute for SPW 3100 and SPW 3101 Spanish Upper Division Restricted Electives (3 Credit Hours) Select 3 semester hours of an upper division Spanish course (SPN 3/4XXX) with advisor consent. The following courses are recommended: SPN 4410 - Advanced Spanish Conversation Credit Hours: 3 or SPN 4421 - Advanced Spanish Composition Credit Hours: 3 or SPN 4510 - Spanish Civilization and Culture Credit Hours: 3 or SPN 4852 - Bilinguismo Credit Hours: 3 or SPN 4800 - The Syntax of Spanish Credit Hours: 3 or SPN 4801 - Spanish Morphology Credit Hours: 3 French (K-12) Core (27 Credit Hours) Students pursuing the World Languages Education French Specialization must pass the Florida Teacher Certification Examination: Subject Area Examination - French K-12 FRE 2201 - Intermediate French Language and Civilization II Credit Hours: 3 FRE 3300 - French Grammar Credit Hours: 3 FRE 3420 - French Composition Credit Hours: 3 FRE 3760 - Advanced French Oral Communication Credit Hours: 3 FRW 3100 - Survey of French Literature I Credit Hours: 3 FRW 3101 - Survey of French Literature II Credit Hours: 3 FRE 3780 - French Phonetics and Diction Credit Hours: 3 FRE 4500 - French Civilization and Culture Credit Hours: 3 Select one: FRE 4421 - Advanced French Conversation Credit Hours: 3 or FRE 4422 - Advanced French Composition Credit Hours: 3 French Upper Division Restricted Electives (3 Credit Hours) Select 3 semester hours of an upper division French course (FRE 3/4XXX) with advisor consent. Grand Total Credits: 78 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida