Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Contact Us Our Faculty All FacultyDietetics/NutritionExercise, Sport & Movement SciencesHealth Sciences/Health PromotionHealthcare LeadershipPhysical Education Teacher EducationSurgical Technology Program Coordinators & Directors Support our College Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home College of Health Sciences Contact Us Lawrence Weiss Lawrence Weiss, EdD Unit Coordinator | Professor | Director of Academic Programs Phone 901.678.4316 Email lweiss@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.3591 Office Fieldhouse 314 Office Hours By appointment CV About Lawrence Weiss <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe --> Lawrence Weiss, EdD received his doctorate in 1979 from the University of Georgia with a major in physical education and a concentration in exercise science. His dissertation addressed sex differences in acute endogenous anabolic-androgenic steroid hormone responses to heavy-resistance lifting. Since that time, his research has focused on three interrelated fronts: 1) new protocol development for monitoring muscle-mechanical performance and body composition in humans, 2) using those and existing protocols to identify adaptations to different types of heavy-resistance exercise, and 3) identifying physical characteristics that contribute to human jumping ability. During his seven years at what is now Georgia Southern University, the local hospital (Bulloch Memorial) provided him with the opportunity to develop procedures for quantifying gross measures of extremity skeletal muscle and subcutaneous fat using diagnostic ultrasound. He concurrently focused on measuring muscle-mechanical performance using isoinertial and isokinetic protocols to examine changes consequent to various heavy-resistance training interventions. In 1986, he moved to the University of Memphis, but unfortunately, lost access to the diagnostic ultrasound equipment. Subsequently, Dr. Weiss worked for several years to develop water displacement as a functional alternative to hydrostatic weighing for assessing two-component total body composition, resulting in the development of a functional prototype (volumeter). Concurrent research ventures by Dr. Weiss were primarily associated with the development and application of new testing protocols for assessing aggregate muscle/joint actions while controlling the velocity at which motion occurs. Analogous single-joint systems had been in wide-spread clinical and research use since their commercial introduction in the early 70s, but multiple-joint diagnostic systems were largely untested. Dr. Weiss was intrigued by the prospect of analyzing multiple-joint movements manipulated over a velocity spectrum, and unlike isolated joint actions, could more nearly emulate kinetic chain patterns characteristic of both everyday life and athletic performance. He used this technology and the measurement protocols developed to investigate the effects of various training programs on both vertical jumping performance and predictors of it in young men and women. Dr. Weiss now addresses these same issues using alternative technological approaches that enable investigators to manipulate loads (load-spectrum testing) while kinematic (velocity, acceleration), kinetic (mechanical power, force), and related factors are directly measured or calculated via inverse dynamics. These approaches further enhance the emulation of natural movement patterns during testing. He is concurrently examining various structural measures such as different foot moment arms, lower-limb segmental dimensions, static and dynamic Q-angles, and body composition to see if they further explain jumping performance. Professor Weiss founded and currently directs the Human Performance Laboratories as well as one of its constituents, the Musculoskeletal Analysis Laboratory (now Director Emeritus). Academically, Dr. Weiss served from 1994 to 2003 as coordinator for the exercise science and health promotion academic unit, and after departmental consolidation and realignment, as coordinator for the exercise, sport & movement sciences academic unit from 2003 to 2008. He has resumed the role of ESMS coordinator as of 2015. Dr. Weiss also serves as director of academic programs for the College of Health Sciences, overseeing all undergraduate and graduate programs in CHS. Education EdD Physical Education, Concentration in Exercise Science - University of Georgia - 1979 MEd Physical Education, Concentration in Exercise Science - University of Georgia - 1975 BS (cum laude) Health and Physical Education - Old Dominion University - 1974 RECENTLY PUBLISHED RESEARCH > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/21/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.