COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Electrical and Computer Engineering, Major MajorElectrical and Computer Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering The dual / accelerated BS-to-MS in electrical and computer engineering will prepare you for diverse, high-paying career options in avionics, process control systems, information processing and many others. You'll have access to some of the best technology and facilities in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and professionals on campus and throughout Kansas' center of industry. Learn how electrical and computer engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Undergraduate students apply for the accelerated bachelor's to master's program through the WSU Graduate School application and admission process. For admission consideration, students must have successfully completed at least 90 credit hours with a cumulative GPA of 3.000 or higher in the bachelor's degree. Admission requirements Inside the Program Collaborative project helps local kids with disabilities As an engineering student, you have the opportunity to work hands-on in your industry while also making a difference in children’s lives through GoBabyGo! The collaborative program involves engineering and physical therapy students who modify off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. “It allows me to engage my mind. In the end you’ve done something to help someone less-fortunate than yourself,” said computer engineering major Brandon Nece. Learn more about GoBaby Go! Curriculum You'll start by developing a solid background in math, science and general engineering—and you'll be involved in design throughout the program. As a senior, you'll work on a two-semester project, giving you real-world experience and preparing you for a professional career or for an advanced engineering degree. There are three options to complete the MSECE degree: thesis, project or coursework. View the curriculum Careers WSU's vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives electrical engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers in many fields from IT and manufacturing to telecommunications and aerospace. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aerospace Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Computer Science (Minor) Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©