Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Campus Environment> Health, Safety and Welfare> University Behavioral Concerns Team - Version 3 University Behavioral Concerns Team Version 3 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Version 2 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG05.20.01 Title University Behavioral Concerns Team Category Campus Environment Sub-category Health, Safety and Welfare Authority Chancellor History Approved December 1, 2011, revised and approved June 7, 2021. Contact University Behavioral Concerns Team Chair, 252-328-9297 Related Policies Faculty Manual, Part VI, section IV, IIA, Disruptive Academic Behavior: Disruptive Academic Behavior (pdf) Student Code of Conduct Voluntary Medical and Psychological Withdrawal policies (for students) Involuntary Protective Withdrawal (of students) Campus Housing policies/contract Employee Return to Work/Fit For Duty protocol (scroll down the page) Additional References Office of Prospective Health ; Behavioral and Concerns Team Threat Assessment and Intervention Resource Material (manual --Available from Team chair) 1. Introduction. The University Behavioral Concerns Team is established to receive, collect, consider, and advise upon information on behavior of concern exhibited by a student or group of students, faculty or staff member, or unaffiliated persons to the campus. The Team is advisory only and does not have authority to impose requirements on students, faculty, staff or other persons of concern. The Team members are selected for their expertise and are trained in threat assessment. Within strict parameters of confidentiality as explained in this regulation, the Team reviews all available relevant evidence, speaks with the individual of concern as appropriate, and makes recommendations to affected University departments and thereby serves as a source of interdisciplinary advice to administrators. Based on their training and expertise and the serious nature of the concerns and potential outcomes, their assessments and recommendations must be strongly considered and promptly acted upon. The Team supports all departments and individuals on campus and evaluates any individual of concern, including undergraduate and graduate students of the University, faculty, staff and other persons of concern. 2. Reporting. Members of the ECU community should report any situation involving a member of the campus community that could result in harm to anyone at the University. 2.1. Imminent Threat. If such a situation appears to be an imminent threat to safety and security (such as violence to others) it should be reported immediately to the ECU Police Department by calling 911. 2.2. Other Threats. Any situation of concern not deemed to be imminently dangerous, yet still of concern, should be reported to ECU Cares at (252) 737-5555, through the online reporting form located at https://ecucares.ecu.edu/#behaviorsofconcern, or to the UBCT Chair at 328-9297. 3. Objective, Process and Resources. 3.1. Objective. The Team will use investigation, reasoned risk analysis and recognized threat assessment techniques, and recommendations for the provision of supportive intervention services through the development and proposal of individual action plans, when needed, to maintain a safe environment for the University community. 3.2. Referrals and Intake. Information about individuals of concern that does not rise to the level of an imminent threat should be forwarded to the UBCT Chair by faculty, staff, and students. 3.2.1. The Team encourages referrals by phone, by email, in person or through the ECU Cares website from any individual or group of individuals who has concern about a member of the campus community. 3.2.2. If the Team receives information that is more appropriately addressed and processed by another campus entity, the Team will not conduct a risk analysis, but will forward the information to that entity. 3.3. Materials and Reports. In addition to drawing on the knowledge of the Team members, the Team may utilize the opinions and reports from other University personnel or outside independent professionals, such as physicians and licensed psychologists or psychiatrists, in an effort to obtain a better understanding of an individual situation. 3.3.1. Examples of members of the campus community that the Team may seek out for interviews or reports include roommates, close friends, family, past and current instructors, coaches, Residence Advisers (RAs), supervisors, and colleagues. 3.3.2 At times the Team may request permission from the individual of concern to review past medical or psychological records or care providers' reports as part of its evaluation process. 3.3.3 The Team may recommend independent and/or on-campus medical or psychological assessment by licensed professionals in an effort to obtain the most complete information on which to base its recommendations. 3.3.4 The Team may recommend ongoing or interim reports by such professionals as an essential monitoring aspect of the individual action plans. 3.4 Procedures. 3.4.1 The Team meets regularly during the Fall and Spring semesters and as needed in the summer. 3.4.1.1 The Team will also meet on an emergency basis as needed to review reports concerning disruptive, inappropriate, and/or threatening behavior exhibited by individuals of concern. 3.4.2 Upon receipt of a referral or report about an individual of concern, the Team conducts a risk analysis to determine if it will recommend a finding that the individual poses a threat to the University community. The Team considers: 3.4.2.1 the reported behavior (including any communications about intent to harm or plans for an attack, access to or interest in weapons) 3.4.2.2 the individual's past performance, including history of violence and past disciplinary/behavioral problems 3.4.2.3 contributing factors such as: past and ongoing medical or psychological conditions; documented disability; known existing stressors, and if there is an existing support system 3.4.3 The Team determines the level of risk presented by the behavior of concern by assessing the initial concern, and a review of additional corroborating evidence, any history of concerning behavior, and other relevant information as deemed appropriate. 3.4.4 Based on this determination, the Team develops an intervention plan with strategies to address the identified level of risk, which is recommended to appropriate administrators. The Team will recommend a plan of action based on its judgment and belief that it is more likely than not: 3.4.4.1 that the recommended plan will have a positive effect on the individual of concern, reducing the threat to the University community; and 3.4.4.2 the plan presents the best available option under the circumstances for both the individual of concern and the greater University community. 3.5 Details of Intervention plans. Intervention plans may include, but are not limited to, recommendations such as the following: 3.5.1 Referrals to resources and appropriate on- and off-campus agencies 3.5.2 Mandates for Center for Counseling and Student Development or external psychological evaluations (for students) 3.5.3 Meetings with the Office of Students Rights and Responsibilities (for students) 3.5.4 Voluntary or involuntary withdrawal (for students) 3.5.5 Consultation with unit administrator or other appropriate supervisor about effective strategies to address the behaviors of concern 3.5.6 A timeframe for updating the Team on the progress of the intervention plan (i.e. update weekly, in two weeks, in a month, etc.). 3.6 Monitoring and Follow-up. 3.6.1 For student behavior, the implementation and outcome of the plan will be coordinated and monitored by the Student Affairs Case Manager. 3.6.2 For employee behavior, the implementation and outcome of the plan will be coordinated with the appropriate Human Resources/Personnel administrator (e.g., the Associate Provost for Personnel & Resource Administration / Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Human Resources) or the Director of Employee Relations) who will assist the UBCT Chair with advising the appropriate supervisor of the employee of concern. 3.6.2.1 The plan will be monitored through communication between the supervisor of the employee of concern and, as designated in the plan, either the UBCT Chair or the Associate Provost for Personnel & Resource Administration / Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Human Resources representative on the Team. 4. Confidentiality and Information Sharing. 4.1 Team proceedings, consistent with law and University policy, remain confidential. 4.2 To the extent allowed by and consistent with applicable laws, the Team will also determine on a case- by- case basis who, within the University or external to it, needs to be given information in order to better protect the safety of the individual of concern, the University community, and/or others. 4.3 The Team may inform the individual of concern of the intent to notify those people as a condition of an individual action plan. 5. Available Resources. 5.1 Students. The Team is only one of several possible resources that are available to provide assistance and support. Others include, but are not limited to 5.1.1 the Dean of Students Office; 5.1.2 Disability Support Services; 5.1.3 the Center for Counseling and Student Development; 5.1.4 ECU Advocacy 5.1.5 Student Health Services; 5.1.6 the Pirate Tutoring Center; and 5.1.7 the Academic Advising Center. 5.2 Faculty and Staff. The Team is only one of several possible resources that are available to provide assistance and support. Others include, but are not limited to 5.2.1 The Faculty and Staff Assistance Program, or FASAP, provides mental health services and support in conjunction with standard employee benefits through the State Health Plan. More information about the FASAP can be obtained by contacting the ECU Department of Human Resources. ECU faculty, staff, and their immediate family members can contact the FASAP 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, via Guidance Resources’ toll-free number at 833-743-8183 (or TTY at 800-697-0353), or online at GuidanceResources Online.” 5.2.2 ADA Coordinator; 5.2.3 University Ombuds 5.2.4 Office for Faculty Excellence. 6. Membership 6.1 The members of the Team include 6.1.1 Director for Student Safety & Services (chair), Office of the Dean of Students 6.1.2 Associate Provost for Personnel & Resource Administration / Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Human Resources (These two roles alternate every other year as Ad-hoc members on the Team) 6.1.3 Director, Center for Counseling & Student Development 6.1.4 Director, ADA Coordinator (Ad-Hoc) 6.1.5 Director, Employee Relations 6.1.6 Director, Office of Student Rights & Responsibilities 6.1.7 Director, Residence Life 6.1.8 Director, Student Health Services 6.1.9 Risk Assessment Coordinator 6.1.10 Director, Academic Counseling (Health Sciences) 6.1.11 Faculty Member 6.1.12 Public Safety Supervisor, ECU Campus Police 6.1.13 Director, Office of Equity & Diversity (Not on original) (Ad-Hoc) All members of the team must have expertise in a field related to the Team's purpose, a proven record in maintaining confidentiality and ethical standards and documentation verifying completion of threat assessment training from an approved provider. Threat assessment training must be completed within 90 calendar days of joining the team. 6.2 Faculty members serving on the team will be determined by the Chancellor after consultation with the Chair of the Faculty. 6.3 Personnel Administration members serving on the team will rotate annually between the Associate Provost for Personnel & Resource Administration and the Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Human Resources. 6.4 Representatives from the University Attorney's Office may serve in an advisory capacity. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier