Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Honors Residential College Menu About Community Covenant College Crest Student Testimonials Calendar Why live in the HRC? Day in the Life Apply Room Options and Rates Scholarships FAQs Helpful Links Visit Us Living in the HRC Alexander Hall Memorial Hall Community Spaces Leadership Staff Student Leadership Advisory Board Community Life Our Traditions Living and Learning Service Initiatives Prayer and Worship Contact Us Staff Meet with Us Social Media Baylor Honors College HRC Renovation Honors Residential College Faith Seeking Understanding The Honors Residential College is a multi-year community that fosters intellectual, moral, and spiritual formation through friendship, integrated study, community service, and spiritual engagement. The HRC is home to 330 Baylor students enrolled in one of the Honors College majors or programs (Baylor Interdisciplinary Core, University Scholars, Great Texts, Honors Program). The HRC is located in Alexander and Memorial Halls. Explore Apply Students accepted into one of the Honors College majors or programs are invited to apply to live in the Honors Residential College. Our residents represent a wide variety of academic majors and concentrations. Apply Learn The Honors Residential College provides students with an intentional living-learning community in which they can pursue growth in their academic life, engage in their own spiritual life, and grow in meaningful friendship. Learn Lead Students in the Honors Residential College have a chance to serve the community and gain formative leadership experience. Lead Serve The HRC is committed to reaching into our community and our world to understand and engage our neighbors through compassionate service and genuine love for the enrichment of our shared life together. Serve Profiles Read More Profiles Priya Chandna Student "Life in the HRC is with a community full of individuals who push me to be the best version of myself each and every day." Joao Moraes Student "In the HRC, I found more than just friends. Here, I found community." Amanda Cordero Alumna "The HRC has given me the time and space to chase my vocation, develop faithful leadership, and practice edifying friendships." Events See More Events Follow Us on Social Media Honors Residential College Alexander and Memorial Hall One Bear Place #97253 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 292-7004 hrc@baylor.edu ApplyVisitMake a GiftHonors College General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Community Covenant College Crest Student Testimonials Calendar Why live in the HRC? Day in the Life Apply Room Options and Rates Scholarships FAQs Helpful Links Visit Us Living in the HRC Alexander Hall Memorial Hall Community Spaces Leadership Staff Student Leadership Advisory Board Community Life Our Traditions Living and Learning Service Initiatives Prayer and Worship Contact Us Staff Meet with Us Social Media Baylor Honors College HRC Renovation