Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards 2016 Summer Scholars Tia Forsman Tia Forsman is a sophomore at Brown University studying health and human biology as well as visual arts. As a student in the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) at Brown, she has developed a strong interest in health, specifically child health, and hopes to pursue a career in pediatrics. As a Hassenfeld Scholar, she will study treatments for children with Autism Spectrum Disorders. The research involves analyzing the vast array of therapies and interventions available to treat children with ASDs, their evidence-bases, and their accessibility in Rhode Island. Ultimately, she hopes to produce a tool that will help families reduce frustration and confusion so they can make educated decisions when it comes to finding the best treatments for their children on the Autism spectrum. Dorothy Marlowe Miller Dorothy Marlowe Miller graduated with a degree in biology from Wheaton College (MA) in 2011 and has just completed the first year of her Master’s in Public Health at Brown University's School of Public Health. She worked for three years as a Clinical Data Specialist within the Program for Patient Safety and Quality at Boston Children's Hospital (BCH). One of the quality improvement projects she coordinated at BCH was a standardized clinical assessment and management plan for critical asthma. Marlowe's research interests are focused on preventive medicine, environmental and child health and pediatric asthma. As a Hassenfeld Scholar and for her master’s thesis, Marlowe will be conducting qualitative interviews with Rhode Island parents to understand how Rhode Island can be the healthiest place to raise a family. Clayton Sanford Clayton Sanford is a rising junior at Brown University, studying applied mathematics and computer science. He is particularly interested in the intersections between those fields and genomics. As a Hassenfeld Scholar, he is working on software that assesses the likelihood of a mutation affecting RNA splicing. These concepts can be applied to study the causes for disorders like autism that affect child health. He hopes to significantly improve the computational power of the tool and apply it to relevant genes for child health. Ling Song Ling Song is a junior at Brown University studying pre-med and public health. Hoping to one day be a doctor serving underprivileged populations, she is interested in researching methods that help alleviate—if not eliminate—social and health disparities. As a Hassenfeld Scholar research her research will involve creating maps of hot spots in Rhode Island where there are patterns of high health care utilization, with a focus on the four core cities. She wants to be able to visualize these areas—where 25% of children live under the federal poverty level—in order to assess and target the communities’ primary care needs to reduce health care costs. By determining the relationships between poverty and health care utilization, and examining potentially preventable pediatric hospitalizations, she hopes to be able to introduce ways that hospitals can maximize their resources and have the greatest positive impact on their communities. Amna Younus Amna Younus, is in her second year at Brown University completing her Masters in Public Health (MPH). Over the years she has developed an interest in managing and developing healthcare programs through ground breaking research aiming towards health equity. As a Hassenfeld Scholar, her research involves examining the availability of Asthma Action Plans in urban public elementary schools in Rhode Island and the communication of school nurses with caregivers about students’ asthma management and its relation to children’s asthma outcomes. Through her research for this leading manageable chronic disease, she hopes to help schools implement appropriate plans to result in better outcomes for our future generations. Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top