Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UWAA Membership Home Alumni UWAA Members Reasons to be a member Reasons to be a member Close Menu Home UWAA Members Reasons to be a member Choose a membership option Member benefits ConGRADulations, Class of 2022 Get the app UW Impact Member account Request a replacement member card Once a Husky, Always a Husky Your UW connection doesn’t end when you leave campus. The UW continues to impact your world. Our bond is the passion we share for the purple and gold. If you believe in higher education, supporting students, lifelong learning or cheering on the Dawgs, the UWAA connects you to what matters. Join the pack Build community From summer BBQs across the country to lectures on campus, Huskies@Work to fun runs, the UWAA is a home for Husky faithful everywhere. Special invitations, University of Washington Magazine and membership newsletters keep members informed about campus activities and events perfect for all Huskies. Join now Stand up for the UW Your membership dues support UW Impact, the UWAA’s legislative advocacy program. UW Impact mobilizes alumni on behalf of restoring state support for the UW and public higher education. Join now Champion the next generation The next generation of UW students needs our help. UWAA membership dues help support students through mentoring connections, campus activities and scholarships. Join now Continue your journey as a lifelong learner Your curiosity didn’t end when you got your degree. UWAA members receive early access to free campus lectures, borrowing privileges at UW Libraries and access to EBSCO online journals. Plus, UW Magazine and your monthly member e-newsletters keep you in the loop on the stories of impact and innovation connected to UW, member opportunities and more. Join now Share your passion for the purple and gold UW alumni are proud of their school and the role it plays in their lives— both on and off campus. Membership strengthens your Husky connection and provides great UW benefits at dozens of businesses including the Husky Team Store and University Book Store. Many UWAA benefits are available online nationwide! Join now Gift memberships If you know someone who is passionate about the UW, whether or not they’re an alum, welcome them into the 56,000-strong UWAA community with a gift membership! Along with priceless Husky experiences, gift memberships come in a purple box with a membership card, W lapel pin and other Husky goodies. Your purchase is a tax-deductible gift to the UW. We ship anywhere in the U.S. for free. Order gift membership Join UWAA Renew Home UWAA Members Reasons to be a member Choose a membership option Member benefits ConGRADulations, Class of 2022 Get the app UW Impact Member account Request a replacement member card UWAA Member App Membership at your fingertips Take your virtual member card with you wherever you go! Download the UWAA member app. UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA