Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Support & Resources » Resources for Complainants and Respondents Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Resources for Complainants and Respondents A Complainant is the individual who files a report or on whose behalf a report is filed. A Respondent is the individual against whom a report has been filed, and may be an individual, group, program, academic or administrative unit, or the institution. The university strives to provide a fair and equitable process. The university respects the constitutional rights of all parties, and does not presume that Respondents have violated university policies unless there has been a finding of responsibility through the adjudicatory process. The university does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any of its programs or activities. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University of Cincinnati's Title IX Coordinator, Adrienne Lyles. Know Your Options UC Title IX Grievance Procedures for Students and Third Parties Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Student Code of Conduct UC Notice of Non-Discrimination Investigations Investigations of complaints will be prompt, reliable, and impartial. Complaints will generally be resolved within 90 days of the filing of a complaint; however, in some circumstances, complaints may take longer to resolve (e.g., if filed during university breaks.) If there is a need to extend the time lines set forth below, the Title IX Coordinator will make the determination and notify the parties. Complainants and respondents will receive regular updates regarding the status of their complaints. Retaliation The university does not tolerate intimidation, retaliation, or retaliatory harassment against individuals because they filed a complaint, participated in an investigation, or otherwise asserted rights protected by Title IX. Individuals found responsible for retaliation will be held accountable under the Student Code of Conduct. Remedies may be available to complainants, witnesses, and participants in the Title IX process who experience retaliation. Privacy The university takes steps to ensure that information is only shared as necessary, on a need-to-know basis and their primary goal will be to help provide support and services to you. Students 18 years or older are protected by FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act), which means that we cannot disclose information about your report to your family or friends without your written consent. However, the University is obligated to comply with Ohio Public Records law. In order for the University to implement or address interim measures based on your request or the university’s need to keep the community safe, a professor or administrator may be notified and minimal information is shared with those parties. Resources and Supportive Measures Support Services The Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion will evaluate your request and make a good faith effort to offer reasonable supportive measures. If you are looking for accommodations in relation to a disability, please contact Accessibility Resources at 513-556-6823 or visit their office in 210 University Pavilion. On-Campus Advocates (Women Helping Women) The On-Campus Advocates are a confidential resource. For more information and support, contact them at 513-431-1563 (call or text M-F) or 513-381-5610 (WHW's 24-hour hotline) or UC@womenhelpingwomen.org. Counseling Services Counseling & Psychological Services offers confidential support, evaluation, and counseling for students experiencing personal difficulties including students who have been accused of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harasment, and stalking. Counseling Services are also available at Blue Ash College and Clermont College. Health Services University Health Services provides mental health care for the vibrant and diverse students of the University of Cincinnati. Frequently Asked Questions Will my friends, family, professors, etc. find out? right arrow down arrow The university takes steps to ensure that information is only shared as necessary, on a need-to-know basis and their primary goal will be to help provide support and services to you. Students 18 years or older are protected by FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act), which means that we cannot disclose information about your report to your family or friends without your written consent. However, the University is obligated to comply with Ohio Public Records law. In order for the University to implement or address interim measures based on your request or the university’s need to keep the community safe, a professor or administrator may be notified and minimal information is shared with those parties. Are there confidential places on campus where I can receive help? right arrow down arrow Yes. There are multiple confidential places on campus that can provide you with assistance. UC Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) and University Health Services provide confidential services on the Uptown/Clifton campus. Confidential services are available through CAPS at Clermont and at Counseling Services at Blue Ash. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top