skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login How to apply Admissions requirements Application deadlines Admitted student checklist Apply Visit News Give Freshman Admissions Admissions at the University of Nevada, Reno How to apply Admissions requirements Application deadlines Admitted student checklist You're close to joining the Pack! How to apply Admission requirements Application deadlines New application Review our admissions requirements and application deadlines for more information about the online application, application due dates, priority scholarship consideration, housing deadlines and more. How to apply Continue a saved application Already started an application? Log into the online application portal to submit your application. Continue your application Check application status You can check the status of your application through MyNEVADA. You must activate your MyNEVADA account prior to accessing your application status. Check your application status Already admitted? Learn about the next steps to take after acceptance to the University of Nevada, Reno. Use MyNEVADA to access your student application dashboard, accept or deny admission (if offered), review fees, make payments and more. Admitted students next steps From California? Want a $12,700 annual scholarship? Find out if you qualify for a Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) tuition scholarship, renewable for four years. Do you qualify? Get to know campus. Get help. From a real person. Our staff of professional admissions coordinators are dedicated to help you make the transition from high school to the University. Find your admissions coordinator Take a campus visit. Whether it is an in-person walking tour, a guided virtual tour or a single day Nevada Bound program, we are excited to welcome you to our 290-acre campus. Schedule your campus visit Learn about Pack life. Find a major 13 colleges. 40 departments. 145+ bachelor's degree options. Find an academic path that fits your personal and professional goals. Majors and minors Costs and aid In-state tuition is under $8,000 per year and out-of-state tuition through the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) is only $11,206 per year for qualified students. Find a financial program that works for you. Tuition, costs and aid On-campus housing Call campus home by choosing from three themed learning living communities and five residence halls for freshmen. Learn more about your housing options. Residence halls Opportunity U: The Nevada Admissions Blog Applying to college is a big decision, and you'll make a lot of choices along the way. Get tips and advice from the admissions staff at the University of Nevada, Reno to help you navigate the college search process. What is academic advising? In college, you'll work with an advisor to create your class schedule and stay on track to graduation. Find out from one of our academic advisors how advising works in college. How to compare financial aid letters April is here and you probably have started receiving financial aid offer letters from different universities. But what does it all mean? Today, we’re going to break it down for you. How college helped me overcome my fear of public speaking If you find yourself trembling at the thought of speaking in front of a crowd, you're not alone. Admissions Coordinator Andre Lawson shares how two college classes helped him overcome his fear. Read more from Opportunity U: The Nevada Admissions Blog Need help applying? Complete a contact form and an admissions representative can answer any questions you may have. Request more information Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX