UH Veteran Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Veteran Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Veteran Services Home About Us Who We Are Welcome from the Program Director Our People Virtual Orientation Education Benefits Texas Education Benefits VA Education Benefits GI Bill Certification Department of Defense Tuition Assistance (TA) Department of Defense Memorandum of Understanding Services UH Green Zone Training Key Programs Student Veterans of America Resources Scholarships and Grants Contact Us Giving UH Veteran Services The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Spring 2022 Veterans Cording Ceremony April 29, 2022 6:00 – 8:00pm Student Center South, Ballroom West and East (Room 210) Join us for the Spring 2022 Veterans Cording Ceremony. If you have any questions regarding this event, reach out to Richard Selvera, rfselver@central.uh.edu or call 832-842-5490. Important Note The UH Veteran Services Virtual Office opens when it is not possible for the staff to be physically present in the office (e.g. in an emergency that leads to a closed campus during normal business hours). In the Teams App, search for UH Veteran Services Virtual Office and join the meeting. Join Code: iynkdqw Features Who We Are Veteran Services (VS) empowers new and current student-veterans, as well as Reserve, Guard, and Active Duty personnel, and their eligible dependent family members. Our Virtual Orientation is the best way to get a quick overview of how VS addresses your needs and concerns. Education Benefits As a military veteran or active duty servicemember, you've earned the education benefits provided by the federal, and for Texas residents, state government. Let Veteran Services help you make the most of your benefits. Student Veterans of America Student Veterans of America (SVA) at the University of Houston represents the 1,000-plus student veterans, active duty military students, Reserve and National Guard students, their spouses and dependents and any University of Houston student interested in bettering the campus experience of veterans. Our Staff Celina Dugas Program Director Sandra Glass Program Coordinator Richard Selvera Program Coordinator Ralph Harrison VetSuccess on Campus (VSOC) Counselor University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies