Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Main menu Main Menu About Administration Calendar Committees Departments and Centers Diversity Faculty & Staff Global Programs Lecture Series Satellite Campuses Alumni and Friends Alumni Relations STORIES Magazine Giving Research Research Highlights For Researchers Farms Students Student Services Majors Request Information Schedule a Visit Scholarships Careers Study Abroad Graduate Programs Online Learning Extension Extension Resources Ag and Natural Resources Visit the department site Transferring to Iowa State? Review transfer plans for Agricultural Business Questions about transferring into Agricultural Business? Amy Brandau 166C Heady Hall (515) 294-6147 abrandau@iastate.edu Future Students Majors Service Learning Meet Our Students Agricultural Business Do you have a knack for numbers and a love of the land? Then agricultural business is the perfect major for you. You can receive a unique blend of training in business, economics, and agriculture while preparing for professional careers in commodity merchandising, economics analysis, farm and agricultural production management, agribusiness management, agricultural finance, agricultural sales and marketing, natural resources, agricultural accounting and international agriculture. Prepare to be a leader in the bioeconomy of the future at the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Adviser: Amy Brandau abrandau@iastate.edu (515) 294-6147 Iowa State's student chapter of the National Agri Marketing Association was recently named "National Outstanding Chapter". The Agricultural Business Club was recently named National Outstanding Chapter by the American Agricultural Economics Association. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences 138 Curtiss Hall 513 Farm House Lane Ames IA 50011-1050 cals@iastate.edu (515) 294-2518 Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo STORIES Site Index Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility