Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search About Xavier Xavier At a Glance Xavier University is a Jesuit Catholic University in Cincinnati, Ohio, annually ranked among the nation’s best universities. Founded in 1831, Xavier is the oldest Catholic College in Ohio. Our four colleges offer 90+ undergraduate majors, 60+ minors and 40+ graduate programs to approximately 7,000 total students, including 5,000 undergraduates. Fast Facts 90+ Undergraduate Programs Located In Cincinnati, Ohio Jesuit Catholic University 98% Success Rate Mission and Values Driven by our commitment to the common good and to the education of the whole person, the Xavier community challenges and supports students as they cultivate lives of reflection, compassion and informed action. University Rankings and Recognitions Read Xavier’s Mission Statement Jesuit Education The goal of a Jesuit and Catholic education is the integration of learning and spirituality, along with the development of a strong system of personal moral values. Jesuit Education at Xavier Challenging Academics Our promise to provide challenging and personal learning experiences for each student is at the heart of Xavier’s mission. Xavier offers more than 90 undergraduate majors, 60 minors, 30 graduate programs and 9 online programs. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Collegiate Sports Musketeers come first in character, commitment and spirit. Our 18 D-1 sports teams include basketball, baseball, cross country, golf, tennis, volleyball, soccer and track and field. Guide to Xavier Athletics Cincinnati, Ohio Cincinnati, Ohio features some of the largest companies in the world, which means students and alumni have countless opportunities for careers, internships and mentorships at places like Kroger, Procter & Gamble, Macy’s, Fifth Third Bancorp, American Financial and Western & Southern Financial group. The city is ranked the #1 Best City for College Graduates (smartasset.com) and is home to some of the nation’s leading hospitals and healthcare networks, including Cincinnati Children's Hospital, the Christ Hospital and TriHealth. About Cincinnati Xavier's Student Commitment We are Xavier Musketeers. We are unique individuals who come together in the spirit of St. Ignatius, to learn together, to serve together and we will succeed in changing the world together. We act with integrity, justice and generosity. All for one and one for all. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram