Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Missions & Public Life Menu Explore About Us Our Guiding Principles Our Team Missions & Public Life + Illuminate Global Missions + Global Baylor Global Engagement Certificate Join Our E-mail List FAQs Connect With Us Go Global Global Missions Teams Due March 18: Zambia Business Consulting (August 2022) BearsAbroad Login Support Raising Letter Writing Donor Forms Make a Payment 23FY Mission Trip Payments Team Leaders 2021-2022 Proposal Process BearQuest Tutorials Team Leader Covenant Team Leader Manual Final Itinerary Help Partnership Exploration Request Global Safety & Security Spring Break Disaster Relief Teams Love Local Service Hurricane Ida Relief First Step Baylor Buddies MLK Day of Service Santa's Workshop Steppin' Out Freerice Find if on Fifth Love Local Teams Better Together Better Together Learning Community Civic Interfaith Studies News Events Signature Events Missions Week Give Missions & Public Life Missions and Public Life strives to shape Baylor's faithful engagement with Waco and the world. We prepare men and women for worldwide leadership and service with a goal to make a better world...together. To do so, we provide transformational opportunities for students to love their neighbors by cultivating self-discovery, deepening human connection, developing a healthy worldview, and equipping servant-leaders. Explore Global Missions Grow, love, and serve while immersing yourself in different cultures, and integrating your faith, service, and learning in more than 20 locations worldwide. Read More Local Love Teams Join a team to engage, love, and serve the greater Waco community by partnering with local churches and organizations. Read More Community Service Identify opportunities to serve on your own time, or with your registered student organization. Read More Public Deliberation Initiative Engage in deliberation forums, trainings, and promote civil discourse and vibrant deliberative democracy in the Baylor, Waco, and surrounding area. Read More Go Global Love Local Be a Good Neighbor Join Our E-mail List Make a Payment Make a Gift Volunteer to Serve with Hurricane Ida Relief Mission Team Dedicate your Fall Break to serving communities impacted by Hurricane Ida! Students may now apply to join mission teams that will be providing Hurricane Ida relief and clean-up assistance over Fall Break, between Oct. 21-Oct. 24, 2021. Learn More Baylor community aids G.W. Carver Middle School after devastating fire Baylor Missions & Public Life and New Student Programs rally campus departments and organizations to aid G.W. Carver Middle School with more than 6,600 school supplies, 2,100 washable masks, 1,200 reusable water bottles, after devastating fire. Learn More Check Out Stories by #BearsOnMission on the Baylor Missions Blog Hear stories from trip participants, team leaders, and learn more about the purpose and heart of Baylor Missions. Learn More Give the Gift of Love & Light Cost should never be a barrier for students to grow, serve, and love their neighbors in Waco and the World. Thanks to gifts given specifically to support students who participate in Baylor Missions, we are able to reduce the cost of transformational mission experiences for all students. Give today to help more #BearsOnMission be the the light of Christ in the world. Learn More Tune In & Subscribe to The Good Neighbear Podcast The Good Neighbear Podcast is a story sharing platform which highlights stories of hope and healing for the Baylor and Waco communities. Available on Apple Podcast and LibSyn! Learn More Interfaith Reading Room Gather, pray, and reflect in the Interfaith Reading Room, located on the 2nd floor in Poage Library. Fully equipped with prayer mats and meditation guides. Learn More News See More News Oct. 7, 2021 Hurricane Ida Relief Mission Team Apps Open Dedicate your Fall Break to serving communities impacted by Hurricane Ida. Read More Sep. 20, 2021 Baylor Missions Week Kicks Off Sept. 27, 2021, Hosting 35+ Organizations Baylor Missions Week 2021 kicks off Monday, Sept. 27, 2021 with more than 35 organizations presenting opportunities to grow, love, and serve in Waco and the world. Read More Sep. 14, 2021 Baylor in Washington Hosts Expert Panel on Race, Gender, and American Policing What does it look like for law enforcement in our country to uphold and promote equal justice under the law for all Americans, and to eliminate practices that have adversely affected individuals based on their gender and/or the color of their skin? Read More Sep. 13, 2021 Non-profit organizations, charities, food trucks invited to inaugural Love Local Fest at Baylor University Local non-profit organizations, charities, community associations, and food trucks are invited to to participate in the inaugural Love Local Fest at Baylor University on Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2021. Read More Events See More Events Missions & Public Life Bobo Spiritual Life Center 500 Speight Ave. Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-3517 missions@baylor.edu bettertogether@baylor.edu Go GlobalLove LocalBe A Team LeaderBe a Good NeighborSupport a Team General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Explore About Us Our Guiding Principles Our Team Missions & Public Life + Illuminate Global Missions + Global Baylor Global Engagement Certificate Join Our E-mail List FAQs Connect With Us Go Global Global Missions Teams Due March 18: Zambia Business Consulting (August 2022) BearsAbroad Login Support Raising Letter Writing Donor Forms Make a Payment 23FY Mission Trip Payments Team Leaders 2021-2022 Proposal Process BearQuest Tutorials Team Leader Covenant Team Leader Manual Final Itinerary Help Partnership Exploration Request Global Safety & Security Spring Break Disaster Relief Teams Love Local Service Hurricane Ida Relief First Step Baylor Buddies MLK Day of Service Santa's Workshop Steppin' Out Freerice Find if on Fifth Love Local Teams Better Together Better Together Learning Community Civic Interfaith Studies News Events Signature Events Missions Week Give