Toggle navigation Ombuds Office About Team Charter FAQs Resources Contact Survey Do you need help? Do you need someone to listen to you? Is something bothering you and you don't know where to go? Call or visit us. We can help! The Ombuds Office Can... The Ombuds Office Cannot... × The Ombuds Can: Listen to your concern Clarify university policy Answer questions concerning appropriate channels Assist with problems that have not been resolved by other offices Informally look into your concern Make referrals to individuals who can address your concern Help define options that are available to you Recommend changes to university policy, rules, or procedures that are outdated, unclear, or ineffective Open avenues of communication; facilitate conversations Offer a SAFE place to discuss your concerns Close × The Ombuds Cannot: Advocate for an individual or group Provide legal advice or representation Assist with a non-university related concern Tell someone what to do Participate in any investigative procedures Engage in matters that are undergoing formal process Accept formal complaints or serve as an office of notice Mandate policies, procedures or make binding decisions Close The University Ombuds Office provides all members of the university community (students, staff, faculty, and others) an informal, independent, confidential, neutral office that offers assistance and impartial advice regarding concerns related to the University. The University Ombuds Officer will listen to concerns and will facilitate resolution of problems. All proceedings in individual cases will be held confidential by the Ombuds Officer, unless authorized by the complainant or otherwise required by applicable law, including without limitation, Chapter 119, Florida Statutes. Please remember that e-mail is not appropriate for confidential communications. In order to protect confidentiality, the Ombuds Office conducts its business in person and over the telephone but not via e-mail. Also, due to the confidential, impartial, informal and independent function of the Ombuds Office, communication with the office does not constitute notice to UCF. Home ⋅ About ⋅ Team ⋅ Charter ⋅ FAQs ⋅ Resources ⋅ Contact