Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies Office of the Chancellor Executive Leadership Chancellor's Staff Chancellor's Council Chancellor's Ambassadors Former Chancellors Speaker Request Mitchell's BIOGRAPHY ORGANIZATIONAL CHART Office of the Chancellor Texas Tech University System System Administration Building 1508 Knoxville Ave., Ste. 306 Box 42013 Lubbock, TX 79409-2013 Phone: 806.742.0012 Fax: 806.742.8050 8 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. Central, Monday - Friday Home / Office of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor Welcome from the Chancellor I am honored to lead the Texas Tech University System and maintain our momentum during a time of pivotal growth at our universities and major progress in our leading initiatives. I am proud to be a part of the Texas Tech University System team and am grateful for the responsibility of serving as chancellor. Our five universities are at the forefront of groundbreaking research and medical advancements, and produce first-class graduates that act as leaders and problem solvers for the betterment of our state, nation and world. In our mission to serve the needs of our region and beyond through innovation and opportunity, the Texas Tech University System performs with excellence in teaching, research and health care. Our universities have a major impact throughout Texas, and we continue to rise in the ranks of the nation’s top institutions. Thank you for your support of our great universities. I am proud to serve at the helm of the TTU System. Warmest regards, Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D. Chancellor, Texas Tech University System Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©