Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Conferences and Meetings You are here Home About Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Services Conferences and Meetings Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Welcome to the conferences and events web portal for non-Temple clients. This site has been designed to help you to make an informed choice about which Temple locations may be best for your program, meeting or event. The site is arranged by campus so you may learn more about the unique options for each location. Please make sure to peruse all the options. You may request space and services at any of the locations, or at multiple locations, and our event planning team will work with you to craft an outcome that exceeds your needs. Each campus has unique and specialized opportunities that include meeting and event space (indoor and/or outdoor in many cases), catering and food service, technology services, support staff, single or multiday event support, residential opportunities for guests, hotel and transportation recommendations for the local community, and wedding and wedding party event planning. In all cases, the event services staff on each campus can share their expertise and capabilities with you directly once you make a request. If you are unsure of where to start, visit each microsite for all the options, then ask questions using the email or request forms provided. We’ll work to make sure you get to the right place quickly and the team will provide a comprehensive planning experience throughout the event development process. One of our great strengths is that we work as one team to exceed expectations so that Temple is the best choice for you. Thanks again for visiting and we look forward to working with you soon! Main Campus Find out more about the various spaces available to rent on Main Campus. Health Sciences Center Step onto the Health Sciences Center and be immersed in the future of healthcare. Home to four of Temple's medical-related schools and colleges, as well as the nationally ranked Temple University Hospital, the Health Sciences Center is a hub of academic, clinical and research activities. Between the Student Faculty Center and the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, we have over 20 flexible indoor and outdoor spaces that can accommodate up to 300 people. And, it's just a short ride to Center City, and to Main Campus for housing options. Access detailed information about these spaces. Access the online form for the spaces listed above. Please note that only groups invited by a Temple University or Health System department are eligible to use spaces in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine. For additional information regarding special events at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine please email sfc@temple.edu. Center City When your organization needs meeting or training space in Philadelphia, look to Temple University Center City. Conveniently situated just across from City Hall, the campus is easily accessible by transit with several buses, commuter rails and PATCO High Speed Lines from New Jersey that all stop within blocks of the campus. Our facility can accommodate meetings for up to 100 guests with classrooms, conference rooms and computer labs in a wide range of capacities and configurations. All rooms are equipped with spacious whiteboards and leading edge technology to enhance your event. Large windows provide lots of natural light and beautiful views, and when the work is done, restaurants, shopping and entertainment are nearby. Our clients value our convenient location, responsive customer service and the professional quality of the space. Affordable rates make this an attractive option for nonprofit organizations and government agencies, and you are free to choose your own caterer. Rooms can be rented for half or full days. Access detailed information about these spaces. Harrisburg Temple Harrisburg is located in the downtown Strawberry Square complex, near many state associations and businesses. We offer a variety of academic and certificate programs, professional development opportunities, and nonprofit services. Access detailed information about these spaces. Ambler Our spacious 187-acre Ambler Campus is conveniently located just minutes from major highways and 10 miles from our Main Campus in Philadelphia. Temple Ambler features a well-appointed smart auditorium and classrooms, computer labs, and multiple indoor and outdoor spaces including recreation and sports facilities, as well as formal and educational gardens. Many of our facilities and grounds are available to companies and organizations for educational meetings, events and conferences for reasonable fees. Access detailed information about these spaces. Go back to AboutMore in Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Documents & Insurance Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.