Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Division of Student Affairs Disability Resources for Students (DRS) Division of Student Affairs About Us Staff Listing UW Bothell Traditions Activities & Recreation Center (ARC) Ask Holly and Holly Updates CARE Team Counseling Center Contact Us Counseling Services Crisis Services Workshops & groups Counseling Center staff Self Help Resources Smart Phone Apps Self-Help Library Community resources Crisis services Intimate partner violence, & sexual assault resources Medical & psychiatric services Off campus counseling clinics Multicultural counseling LGBTQ counseling & resources Specialty treatment assessment ADHD & learning disability assessment Legal, financial & shelters Parent/Family Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Training Opportunities Supervisor Information Frequently Asked Questions Mental Health & Academic Support Faculty course evaluations Student Legal Services Career Services DACA and undocumented student resources Event Calendar Disability Resources for Students (DRS) Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards Build Your Potential Scholarship Search Resources Upcoming Merit Scholarships Mary Gates Scholarships Campus Nominations UWB Scholarships Application Tips Letters of Recommendation Scholarship Essays UWB Award Recipients 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 Residential Life Resident Advisors Orientation and Transition Programs Recreation & fitness Student Engagement & Activities Student Clubs Student Conduct Respondent Resources Student Misconduct Behavioral Misconduct Academic Misconduct Student Conduct Hearings Respondent Rights & Options Incident Report Form Faculty Resources and Information Establish Expectations for Student Conduct Report Student Misconduct Contact Student Employment Veterans Services Benefits Tuition information UW Bothell Vet Corp Navigator Resources Faculty & staff Student Veteran Stories Campus initiatives Challenge Coin Veterans Archway Services and Activities Fee Committee SAF Bylaws Minutes & Agendas Contact & Members Annual Cycle Contingency Proposals Annual Proposals Allocations & Spending Allocations & Spending 2014-2015 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 2019-2020 2020-2021 Student Technology Fee Committee Members Proposals Meeting Minutes & Agendas Allocations & Spending Resources Diversity Husky Pantry Health Insurance Coverage Affordable Health Care and Washington State Exchange Policies Against Sexual Harassment and Discrimination Awards and Recognition Student Affairs Disability Resources for Students (DRS) Welcome to DRS Mission Statement Embedded in the core values of the University of Washington is a commitment to ensuring access to a quality higher education experience for a diverse student population. Disability Resources for Students (DRS) recognizes disability as an aspect of diversity that is integral to society and to our campus community. DRS serves as a partner in fostering an inclusive and equitable environment for all University of Washington students. In person service has resumed DRS Alternative Testing Center has reopened to administer in-person exams for in-person classes. Online exams will be administered by faculty with the appropriate accommodations applied. Faculty and students are welcome to consult with DRS on any questions about classroom or testing accommodations. Student FAQs Current DRS students log in to myDRS profile Prospective DRS students apply for services How do I access my classes? Login to myDRS to activate your accommodation and notify your professors. UW Canvas log in and help for students. UW Bothell student help for learning online. How can I take my tests with DRS? After registering each quarter, login to myDRS to activate your accommodations and send your Faculty Notification Letters. Meet with your professors during the first week of classes to plan your testing schedule; if you are unable to test at the regular class time due to a scheduling conflict with another class, agree with your professor on an alternative time. After your professor completes the online Testing Agreement, login to myDRS and click on the "Alternative Testing" link in the left side column navigation menu to schedule your individual appointments. On test day, check in at the DRS Testing Center 15 minutes before your appointment start time. How will I receive my extended time for online tests? Your professors will extend time for your online exams if you use myDRS to activate your alternative testing accommodation in their class. If you are unable to test at the regular class time due to a scheduling conflict with another class, work with your professor to agree on an alternative time. You do not need to schedule test time in the DRS Alternative Testing Center. I don't have accommodations for disability yet, how do I request them? Submit the New Student Application through our secure site. Upload your Documentation of Disability with your application. Schedule your Access Planning Meeting to discuss your barriers and create a plan (all APMs are currently meeting by phone or Zoom). Learn more at UW DRS Getting Started Faculty FAQs Faculty log in to myDRS profile. How do I use the DRS Alternative Testing Center? Your student will email you a Faculty Notification Letter listing their academic accommodations. Look for the direct link to the Testing Agreement for that class section in the red box at the end of that email; or, login to your myDRS Faculty Portal and click on the "Alternative Testing" link in the left side column navigation menu. After you complete and submit the online agreement form, all students in that class section will be able to schedule their testing appointments for the entire quarter. A Testing Agreement is ONLY required if you need DRS staff to administer exams on your behalf in the DRS Testing Center; if your class has no timed, in-person tests or quizzes, or if you plan to administer your exams yourself in your department, no agreement or scheduling with DRS is necessary. How do I make my online materials or classes accessible? Follow UW IT's steps here UW Bothell IT Digital Accessiblity Assignments / File Type DRS resources for faculty Accessibility Tips Zoom live captioning video tutorial Media / Video / Audio Assignments / File Type How do extended time and breaks for exams work in an online format? If your student has extra time on exams, your online exam must be extended per their accommodation. If your student has breaks during exams, add in their total break time to their exam, if there is no way for the student to stop and start. Complaint Resolution Resources The University of Washington is committed to providing equality of opportunity and an environment that fosters respect for all members of the University community. If you are having difficulty with a person, office or department at the University of Washington and believe you have or may be experiencing mistreatment or discrimination on the basis of your disability, click here for resources to get assistance. DRS Quick Info Rosa J. Liu, M.Ed. Director, Veterans Services & Disability Resources for Students Email: rosal@uw.edu Phone: 425.352.5307 (Voice & Relay) Fax: 425.352.5114 Location: Founders Hall in the Counseling Center: Lower Level of Building UW1, Room 080 Students Login to your myDRS profile using your NetID to send accommodation notifications to your professors and review your eligibilities. Student login to myDRS Schedule an appointment with a counselor online at the link below or call 425.352.3183 (Voice & Relay). Schedule appointment Request accommodations for disability by submitting the online new student application and uploading your documentation of disability with your application. Apply for services Faculty Login to your myDRS profile using your UW NetID to review accommodations requests from your students. Faculty login to myDRS DRS Alternative Testing Center Hours Students may login to myDRS to schedule alternative testing appointments during these times: Monday-Thursday 8:45am-5:15 pm Friday 8:45-12:45 The DRS office will open 15 minutes before and after any scheduled testing appointments, and during these business hours: Monday-Thursday 9:00am-12:00pm 1:00pm-4:00pm DRS testing services are not available during quarter breaks, holidays, or other times classes are not meeting. Location & Contact Alice LeFlore DRS Coordinator Email: uwbdrs@uw.edu Phone: 425.352.5426 (Voice & Relay) Location: Founders Hall, Bldg. UW1, Rm. 071 (across the hall from the Counseling Center and Rosa's office in UW1-080) University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us