Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Events Distinguished Lectures Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. The Calderone Prize Justice in Global Health: Who Will Lead? Benrubi Lecture Hamied Lecture The Calderone Prize Justice in Global Health: Who Will Lead? Benrubi Lecture Hamied Lecture Distinguished Lectures To widely disseminate important public health innovations and ideas and to recognize those who pursue and advocate for critical new policies and programs, the Mailman School sponsors several prestigious lectures in the field. The Isidore I. Benrubi Lecture in the History and Ethics of Public Health The Isidore I. Benrubi Lecture in the History and Ethics of Public Health is an annual lecture featuring a leader in the field of public health and ethics. The lecture series was established in 2007 by the family of Isidore I. Benrubi, a physician, father, and friend. The National Endowment for the Humanities provides additional matching support. View the list of Benrubi honorees. The Yusuf Hamied Distinguished Lecture The annual Yusuf Hamied Distinguished Lectures – one in Mumbai and one in New York City – honor outstanding individuals whose work has advanced our understanding of global health challenges. We thank our Columbia Mailman board member Dr. Yusuf K. Hamied for his generosity in establishing this distinguished lecture series, which enables our institution to strengthen and build academic relationships with the public health research community in India, in collaboration with our partner, the Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai. View the list of Hamied Lectures. The Granville H. Sewell Distinguished Lecture Named in honor of one of the School’s most revered longtime faculty members, the annual Sewell Lecture recognizes significant achievement in the area of environmental health sciences. View the previous list of Sewell honorees. Inaugurated in 1993 by the Department of Environmental Health Sciences, the annual Granville H. Sewell Distinguished Lecture honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to environmental health sciences. The lecture series was established in memory of Dr. Granville Sewell, who directed the educational programs in environmental health sciences at Columbia for more than 20 years. A man who served Columbia University and society in many different ways, Sewell was internationally recognized for his great contributions in the critical area of water supply in developing countries. Granville H. Sewell: A Profound Impact Sewell received his BS in Civil and Sanitary Engineering and his PhD in Developmental Economics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Before coming to Columbia University, he was involved in economic and environmental assessments of construction projects in Jordan, Korea, Liberia, Nigeria, Panama, Turkey, Sierra Leone, and many other countries around the world. He joined the Columbia faculty in 1967 and developed a new teaching program in environmental health sciences in the early 1970s. He taught and wrote on a variety of environmental topics, including water supply and sanitation, always emphasizing the social context for environmental problems and their remedies. Dr. Sewell died in December 1992 at the age of 59, after a long and heroic battle with lung cancer. Dr. Sewell remained active in the department until his death. His door—at the office and at home—was always open, especially to students. Students from around the world attended his parties and dinners with great regularity and great affection for Dr. Sewell and his family. Dr. Sewell worked tirelessly to provide students with opportunities for research and training in public health, opportunities to network with professionals in the field, and opportunities to find employment in positions that were personally fulfilling and socially important. His lectureship was created to provide an annual opportunity for students, alumni, faculty, friends, and colleagues to come together to learn, enjoy each others' company, and develop new opportunities for current and future students. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers