Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Student Retention & Completion Powered by the Student Achievement Collaborative Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Student Retention & CompletionOpen main menu Close Open search Home Persistence & Retention Close Persistence & Retention Programs Student Support Services Aggie First Scholars Supplemental Instruction Tools Tutoring Student Money Management Center Benchmarks & Resources Close Benchmarks & Resources First Generation Freshman Sophomore Junior Senior Early Alert Close Early Alert Early Alert Tool Students of Concern Completion Close Completion Commencement Overview Application Process Academic Regalia Graduation Activities Commencement Archives Next Steps Career Services Alumni Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Notification of Leave Notification of Leave I have been admitted to USU I have taken classes at USU or USU Online Submit Notification of Leave A notification of leave is for students who have already completed a semester or more at USU, and then need to take a break. info Do you need to defer instead? If you have been admitted to USU and you haven't taken courses at USU or have only taken USU concurrent enrollment (CE) courses, deferral is the process you should use. Please visit the Admissions site to walk through the deferral process. 1 Sign into your USU Application Account Sign into your account and Submit a Notification of Leave. If you can't remember your password click the Forgot Password link. If you forgot what email you used, our service desk can help you out! 2 Fill out the Notification of Leave Form Let us know if and when you plan to return to USU. You can return any time in the next three years unless you withdrew from USU, or if academic suspension or graduation occurred at the conclusion of the previous semester. 3 Check Your USU Email Regularly All communications from USU will go to your USU email account, so you will want to check it regularly while you are away. 4 Check Scholarships If you have a remaining scholarship from the USU Office of Admissions, it will automatically activate on your return semester. If you received any other scholarships, contact the USU regional campus, department, or other awarding entity to activate them for your return. Please visit usu.edu/scholarships for more information. 5 Financial Aid Complete your FAFSA for the semester of your return to USU (as early as October 1 before the academic year you plan to attend). The FAFSA must be resubmitted each year that you want aid. Please visit usu.edu/financialaid. 6 Designate a Delegate If needed, set up a delegate and give him or her a copy of your information. Your delegate should be able to access your USU email if you will not be checking it regularly. You can add delegates on myid.usu.edu. Sign-in and then click "Delegates" on the left menu. 7 Drop Courses if Needed You will need to drop or withdraw from any courses you will no longer attend, as this is not done automatically. Refer to the semester registration calendar in the Catalog to see relevant drop, withdraw, and refund deadlines. If you have already paid your tuition, and you are within the refund deadline, you will receive a refund. Contact the USU Registrar's office with any questions. 8 Complete the Notification of Leave Checklist The Notification of Leave checklist has lots of helpful information. Please visit the usu.edu/retention website to learn about what tools are available to undergraduate students to help them thrive at USU while empowering them to reach their goal of earning a degree from Utah State University. What if I am a Graduate student? Graduate students file a notification of leave via a different process, and follow different policies than undergraduate students. For more information go to https://gradschool.usu.edu/leave-absence-continuous-registration/. What if I am an International Student? International students must contact the office of Global Engagement located in Military Science 115, by phone at 435-797-1124 or by email at usuintl@usu.edu or global.engagement@usu.edu. What if I am in the U.S. Armed Forces? USU is committed to providing the highest quality of service to service members who were unable to attend school due to military service. USU adheres to the provisions for U.S. Armed Forces members provided in Chapter 3 of Volume 2 of the Federal Student Aid Handbook. Please feel free to reach out to our Veterans Resource Office for any additional questions. Frequently Asked Questions Find more answers to commonly asked questions on the Frequently Asked Questions page. Student Orientation & Transition Services Would you like assistance with a general notification of leave or deferment question? We'd love to talk: If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us at 435-797-7557 or email orientation@usu.edu. Schedule Zoom or Phone Appointment Admissions and Completion Offices Would you like assistance with a notification of leave or deferment processing question? We'd love to talk: If you have any questions about Deferment, please feel free to contact us at admit@usu.edu | 1-800-488-8108 If you have any questions about Notification of Leave, please feel free to contact us at notificationofleave@usu.edu Schedule Zoom or Phone Appointment Notification of Leave Checklist for Returning Students If you are returning from a Notification of Leave, use the following checklist to help you stay on track. Returning Information for Missionaries If you are leaving USU for missionary service, use the following page as a guide. Missionaries Student Retention & Completion CONTACT US 0121 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1128 RELATED SITES Thrive Supplemental Instruction Aggie First Scholars Student Support Services Tutoring Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page