COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Aging Studies, Master's Master'sAging Studies All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences Wichita State's Master of Arts (MA) in Aging Studies offers an affordable, quality graduate education, delivered in a completely online, flexible format. Select from several concentration options designed to meet your professional goals, including senior living management, senior community services and public health. Learn how Aging Studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission requirements and additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Older adults benefit from student-led exercise classes through Wichita State Highly trained graduate, practicum and undergraduate internship students are using their skills to lead exercise classes for older adults in the community. The program is called WellREP and is an evidence-based, progressive exercise class specially designed for older adults. More than 150 older adults are served at 10 locations in the Wichita area. Curriculum This master's program requires 36 credit hours of coursework, which can be completed in as few as three semesters with one summer course. Select from three concentrations of study: Senior Living Management: Prepares students to serve in administrative, managerial and director positions within senior living and long-term care (LTC) communities. Ideal for students interested in becoming a licensed nursing home administrator, operator of assisted living, business office manager, HR manager, and other levels of management in LTC settings. It's also excellent for current professionals working in entry-level positions of LTC (e.g. licensed nursing professionals) who want to move into management roles. Students pursuing this concentration are also eligible to complete the Administrator-in-Training program (AIT), providing practical experience required to become a licensed nursing home administrator. Senior Community Services: Prepares students to engage older adults in the community through senior centers, senior programming, and / or social services. Ideal for mid-career professionals looking to advance or transition their work with older adults (e.g. licensed social workers). Designed for individuals seeking opportunities such as: service coordinators, aging care managers, senior living sales and marketing, Alzheimer's, hospice, private duty home care, senior center directors, activities directors, social service designees and academia. Public Health: Prepares students to work in the Public Health sector, including local government agencies and community programming. Specific focus in public health and aging, epidemiology, environmental health, statistics and the social / behavioral aspects of public health. Students in this concentration also earn a graduate certificate in Public Health (GCPH), a nationally recognized certification, along with their master's degree. You'll also choose from three ways to complete your degree: thesis, internship or coursework View the curriculum Careers With an increasing aging population comes the opportunity for well-trained aging specialists in a wide variety of settings, including: Academia Health promotion and physical fitness Licensed nursing home administration Marketing in senior living and product sales Senior centers Senior living management Senior services and programming Volunteer coordination Explore how Aging Studies alumni are contributing to the field every day! Already a working professional? A master's in aging studies can help transition your career so that you're better prepared to serve the aging population. This flexible online master's program is ideal for licensed social workers, nurses, dental hygienists and those in the field of communication sciences, exercise science, psychology, business and education. The degree will open the door to higher-paying positions, allow you to move beyond entry-level positions, increase your desirability for future employers. You'll acquire age-related knowledge and skills to achieve new career goals and more challenging job opportunities, within the same field or from one occupation to another. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Health Administration (Master's) Sociology (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©