Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs M.Eng. Program in Geological Sciences Courses Student Opportunities Research DEI Initiatives People Faculty & Research Staff Field Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Advisory Council Academic Leadership Facilities Centers, Labs, and Institutes Geochemistry Facilities Heasley Museum Rock Park Snee Hall Alumni Give to EAS Get Involved EAS Magazine Resources Mental Health Support EAS Graduate Virtual Open House Experience and Employment Undergraduate Student Activities Academic Support Graduate Student Activities Open the search panel Menu Search Close Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Jobs in EAS Give to EAS Read the EAS Magazine Meet Our Exceptional Faculty Members Review Our Ground-Breaking Research Join Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Impact News June launch for NASA-Cornell tool to view dust from space May 19, 2022 Scientists soon will see Earth’s atmospheric dust in high-resolution, thanks to new spectrometer expected to launch June 7 aboard a SpaceX rocket to the International Space Station. Read more about June launch for NASA-Cornell tool to view dust from spaceMore News More Events Spotlight Tomorrow’s Forecast: Improved Accuracy Climate change is here to stay, bringing with it changing weather patterns. According to current models, the northeastern United States can expect an increase in extreme rainfall events. Read more about Tomorrow’s Forecast: Improved AccuracyMore Spotlights Undergraduate Programs Major in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Major in Atmospheric Sciences Graduate Programs Geological Sciences Graduate Program Atmospheric Science Graduate Program M.Eng. in Geological Sciences Jack Elstner '21, Merrill Presidential Scholar, SUNY Chancellor's Award winner, and recipient of the CALS Academic Excellence Award Jack Elstner ’21 has always been interested in science, particularly anything that has to do with water. He grew up on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay – spending every second he could on the Wye... Read more Intro to Oceanography - The Virtual Edition By: Erin Philipson Intro to Oceanography is one of the largest and most popular classes at Cornell University, with almost 1100 students each semester. Students normally cram into Bailey Hall to hear... Read more Braudy Foundation Funds Phase II of Dust and Drought Research By Erin Philipson The Braudy Foundation – founded by Bob Braudy ’65, M.Eng. ’66, and his wife, Judi – has committed to funding a second five-year phase of a collaboration between Cornell’s Department... Read more Creating Community in EAS By Carolyn Headlam Forged in the Fall of 2019, IDEEAS (pronounced “ideas”) is an independent working group dedicated to Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, and to... Read more Dana Peterson uses Science to Study Tectonically Active and Potentially Hazardous Areas Dana Peterson, Ph.D. student in EAS, knew she wanted to study something related to math and science in college, she just wasn’t sure what – until she watched an episode of NOVA about volcanoes. “I... Read more Our Research Areas Natural Hazards Geophysics and Seismology Tectonics and Structural Geology Atmospheric Science and Climate Ocean Sciences Meteorology and Applied Climatology Research Areas About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Contact Us Intranet EAS Admissions: 607 255-3474 DEPT Address: 112 Hollister Drive Ithaca, NY 14853-1504 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance