Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of the Provost Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links ATAB Menu Main Nav Academic Technology Advisory Board contact Back Back Close About Grants Projects contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Grants Home Grants Exploratory Technology Grant The Exploratory Technology Grant (ETG) seeks to encourage innovation and exploration of technological prospects to serve either as a stand-alone activity or to serve as the foundation for a larger Academic Technology Innovation Grant. All full-time faculty members are invited to apply for an ETG. The maximum amount for an ETG is $3,000. During the summer, up to $1,000 may be used for a faculty stipend for work directly related to the project. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis and award notifications will be made within 30 days. The project must be completed within four months, after which any unused funds will expire. Eligibility Full-time Faculty Tenured Tenured Track Non-tenured Track Apply For An ETG Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Academic Technology Innovation Grant The Academic Technology Innovation Grant (ATIG) should bring new instructional and research technologies to Boston College or bring innovative approaches to teaching and research through technology. ATIGs should aim to be self-sustaining and impact a large number of Boston College faculty and/or students. ATIGs provide start up funding, typically between $5K and $40K, although larger grants have occasionally been funded. Any successful project which continues beyond the two year grant period will require localized funding support. Grant recipients must agree to provide status reports as requested. All full-time faculty members are invited to apply for an ATIG. Eligibility Full-time Faculty Tenured Tenured Track Non-tenured Track Apply For An ATIG Application Deadline: March 18, 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Academic Technology Advisory Board atab@bc.edu About Grants Projects Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College