Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES SLAVIC LANGUAGES & LITERATURES POLISH Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 POLSH 320 Introduction to Contemporary Polish Culture (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&S Topics vary and may include overview of contemporary Polish culture: literature (prose, poetry, and drama), film (feature, documentary, and video art), music, theatre, art, and architecture, as well as an introduction to the cultural life in Poland in the twenty-first century. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 320 POLSH 401 First-Year Polish (5) Focuses on oral communication in basic everyday life situations, sentence level grammar, reading simple connected tests, and writing simple letters and notes. Conducted mostly in Polish, to help enable students to move from novice to intermediate low/mid- level on the ACTFL Proficiency Scale. First in a sequence of three. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 401 POLSH 402 First-Year Polish (5) Focuses on oral communication in basic everyday life situations, sentence level grammar, reading simple connected tests, and writing simple letters and notes. Conducted mostly in Polish, to help enable students to move from novice to intermediate low/mid- level on the ACTFL Proficiency Scale. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: POLSH 401. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 402 POLSH 403 First-Year Polish (5) Focuses on oral communication in basic everyday life situations, sentence level grammar, reading simple connected tests, and writing simple letters and notes. Conducted mostly in Polish, to help enable students to move from novice to intermediate low/mid- level on the ACTFL Proficiency Scale. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: POLSH 402. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 403 POLSH 404 Second-Year Polish (5) VLPA Reinforces basic grasp of the language and enlarges vocabulary and command of grammatical patterns beyond the sentence level. Pays special attention to oral communication, listening comprehension, and writing. Helps enable students to move from Novice High to Intermediate Mid/High-level on the ACTFL Proficiency Scale. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in POLSH 403. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 404 POLSH 405 Second-Year Polish (5) VLPA Reinforces basic grasp of the language and enlarges vocabulary and command of grammatical patterns beyond the sentence level. Pays special attention to oral communication, listening comprehension, and writing. Helps enable students to move from Novice High to Intermediate Mid/High-level on the ACTFL Proficiency Scale. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: POLSH 404. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 405 POLSH 406 Second-Year Polish (5) VLPA Reinforces basic grasp of the language and enlarges vocabulary and command of grammatical patterns beyond the sentence level. Pays special attention to oral communication, listening comprehension, and writing. Helps enable students to move from Novice High to Intermediate Mid/High-level on the ACTFL Proficiency Scale. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: POLSH 405. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 406 POLSH 420 Modern Polish Literature in English (5, max. 15) VLPA Topics vary. Overview of Polish intellectual and cultural history as represented in literary works by modern Polish writers and/or filmmakers. View course details in MyPlan: POLSH 420 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022