Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Campus Life Welcome to the neighborhood. Plan a visit to see why Bruins old and new say attending UCLA was “a life-changing experience.” As a UCLA student, you are part of a community built around breathtaking scenery, convenient housing, renowned dining, diverse social life and more. It’s all on campus waiting to be explored. Campus Environment Designed as a “college in a garden,” the 419-acre Westwood campus sprawls across the Santa Monica Mountain foothills and south into the Los Angeles basin. You might wonder if every building, bench and path has a story to tell. Chances are, they do. Stand where MLK Jr. gave his “Segregation Must Die” speech at the base of Janss Steps. Marvel at the red brick Romanesque Revival architecture of Powell Library, where Bradbury wrote Fahrenheit 451. Stroll past 16 different recreation centers, the playgrounds for Olympic medalists and mere mortals alike. And don’t forget to stop for a selfie at the birthplace of the Internet. Frequently rated one of the most beautiful college campuses in America. Housing and Dining It’s no wonder that more than 98 percent of first-year undergrads choose to live in the residence halls — life on “the Hill” means you’re a short walk from classes and everything else that campus has to offer. From the more than 5,000 annual events, to relaxing sunset vistas, and study rooms to palm tree studded terraces, it won’t take you long to find your own happy place. When it’s time to eat, you have options. Taste, quality, healthy choices, sustainability, dietary restrictions and considerations all top the list, making this food scene the nation’s best. Look no further than this map to find your next meal. Housing Dining Clubs, Organizations and Recreation Because students come from all over the globe and all walks of life, you’re bound to make new friends, find inspiration and maybe even change the world. What will you do together? With more than 1,200 clubs and student organizations, this campus has a history of building community. Sports and Recreation Student Government Arts and Culture Business and Entrepreneurship Volunteering Explore Clubs, Organizations and Recreation Student Health Your health and happiness are essential to the successful attainment of your educational goals. In support of your growth, the Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center) provides high-quality health and wellness services, rendered with kindness by dedicated professionals. Primary Care Women’s Health Immunizations Travel Medicine Physical Therapy Specialty Clinics Radiology and Laboratory Acupuncture Accessibility is key. Students can schedule appointments online and share secure messages with primary care providers. And there are other resources, too, like a 24/7 nurse line and safety escorts from dusk until 1 a.m. The Ashe Center Career Center Immerse yourself in the pulse of Bruin life with a job on campus. Or set your sights on the Los Angeles job market and beyond with a competitive career plan. You can do either, or both, while exploring a cache of guidance and opportunity from the Career Center. Career Center Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept