COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Information Technology and Management Information Systems, Minor MinorInformation Technology and Management Information Systems All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences The information technology and management information systems minor from Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will equip you with a basic understanding of the technology tools that help businesses operate effectively. The minor is a great addition to many majors, particularly within business, and is useful in a wide range of careers. Learn how information technology and management information systems is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the W. Frank Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students gaining more hands-on IT experience Industry-leading company Textron Aviation has opened up more apprenticeship opportunities to Shocker students. With more chances to learn hands-on IT skills, students are experiencing what it's like in a corporate environment and putting their classroom knowledge to work. Curriculum The IT/MIS minor is open to business and non-business students. To complete it, you’ll take 15 credit hours, including: Fundamentals of Business Application Development Data Communications and Computer Networks Management Information Systems Database Management Systems One upper-division elective View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives IT/MIS students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying careers as: Chief Information Officers Chief Technology Officers IT directors and security managers Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Information Technology and Management Information Systems Management Computer Engineering Computer Science Applied Computing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©