Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Mental Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Depression Psychiatry Top Stories Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Campus News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Campus News CUIMC Initiative Receives Federal Community Project Funding The COVID-19 Northern Manhattan Community Mental Wellness Corps, a new initiative to address mental health disparities in Northern Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, has received federal funding. Topic Campus News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Pediatrics Latest News How Does COVID Affect Mental Health? April 16, 2021 A Columbia neuroscientist and psychiatrist is peering into brain cells for clues that may explain how COVID-19 can lead to depression, anxiety, psychosis, and suicide. Topic COVID-19 What to Do About Self-Care Fatigue March 19, 2021 Columbia psychiatrist Lourival Baptista-Neto, MD, has tips for overcoming self-care fatigue and what to do when you're feeling overwhelmed. Topic Depression Psycho-Oncology Techniques Help Patients Cope with Cancer February 10, 2021 Specialized psychosocial interventions—including meaning-centered psychotherapy—can greatly improve a cancer patient's quality of life and reduce suffering. Topic Cancer Diversity and Severity of Autism Symptoms Linked to Mutation Locations December 22, 2020 In children with certain autism mutations, the diversity and severity of symptoms are often related to the identity and properties of gene units, called exons, targeted by the mutations. Topic Genetics Study Finds Evidence of Neurobiological Mechanism for Hallucinations and Delusions November 20, 2020 Columbia researchers have found a potential neurobiological mechanism for hallucinations and delusions that fits within the hierarchical model of psychosis and can explain their clinical presentation. Topic Psychiatry In NYC Foster Care, One in Three Youths Identify as LGBTQAI+ November 13, 2020 A third of youths in New York City foster care identify as LGBTQAI+, finds a study by Columbia researcher Theo Sandfort. But why so many gender diverse youths end up in foster care is unclear. Topic Psychiatry Will U.S. College Students’ Lives Be Forever Transformed by COVID-19? October 27, 2020 Columbia/NYSPI researchers are examining how millions of college students are addressing COVID-19 challenges, including academic/life plans, decision-making, substance use, and mental well-being. Topic COVID-19 Psychiatrists Adapt to Teletherapy October 22, 2020 For mental health professionals, teletherapy can feel like it’s “one step removed,” although studies suggest it produces outcomes statistically equivalent to face-to-face treatment. Topic Infectious Diseases Unequal Care: Mental Health and Black Americans October 1, 2020 In a webinar co-sponsored by Columbia's School of Journalism, Columbia psychiatrists discuss how inequalities in mental health care have had a tangible impact on Black Americans for generations. “One of Us” Offers Solutions on Physician Suicide September 21, 2020 A panel discussion held in observance of National Physician Suicide Awareness Day on Sept. 17 highlighted the legacy of Dr. Lorna Breen and the ongoing fight to curb physician suicide. Topic Depression Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top