Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries About You are here Home About Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library About Temple University Founded as a night school by Russell Conwell in 1884, Temple University has evolved into an international powerhouse in higher education and a top-tier research institution with roughly 40,000 undergraduate, graduate and professional students. As the largest university in one of the nation’s most iconic cities, Temple educates diverse future leaders from across Philadelphia, the country and the world who share a common drive to learn, prepare for their careers and make a real impact. Temple offers students a dynamic and nurturing learning environment with the support of a renowned faculty, dedicated academic advisors focused on setting a clear path to graduation and a broad curriculum of more than 500 academic programs. A longtime leader in professional education, Temple is also among the nation's largest educators in the combined fields of dentistry, law, medicine, pharmacy and podiatry. Investments in the campus learning environment have elevated the university’s capabilities across its 17 schools and colleges with impressive results. In 2015, Temple achieved the R1 Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, placing it among the most active research universities in the nation. Temple also recently celebrated several milestones, including a Rhodes scholar, a Goldwater scholar, and its largest and brightest graduating class. Temple’s bustling Main Campus is set against the backdrop of the Philadelphia skyline. Green space, athletic facilities and eclectic architecture ranging from the historic Temple Performing Arts Center to an emerging state-of-the-art Charles Library form a vibrant residential setting. Temple’s NCAA Division I athletic programs and hundreds of student organizations thrive on campus. Philadelphia’s public university, Temple provides an unparalleled value to families in the region and serves as an essential resource to the surrounding community. Temple also offers a gateway to the world with long-standing international campuses in Tokyo and Rome and study abroad opportunities across six continents. Mission Statement Opportunity. Engagement. Discovery. Temple University educates a vibrant student body and creates new knowledge through innovative teaching, research and other creative endeavors. Our urban setting provides transformative opportunities for engaged scholarship, experiential learning, and discovery of self, others and the world. We open our doors to a diverse community of learners and scholars who strive to make the possible real. We are committed to the ideals upon which Temple was founded: providing access to an excellent, affordable higher education that prepares students for careers, further learning and active citizenship. creating a collaborative community of outstanding faculty and staff who foster inclusion and encourage the aspirations of Temple students. promoting service and engagement throughout Philadelphia, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the nation and the world. President Temple's president is the public face of the university and is responsible for supporting and managing all of its academic, administrative and financial operations. The President works closely with faculty, administrators, trustees, students and alumni to set the university's goals and uphold its mission. Learn more about the president of Temple University. Trustees The Board of Trustees is Temple's governing body, responsible for the educational mission and fiscal policies of the university. The trustees also are responsible for electing the university president, adopting an annual plan of financial operation and establishing degrees to be awarded. Learn more about the Board of Trustees. Campus Development Temple is investing millions of dollars into new and upgraded facilities as part of the Visualize Temple campus plan and the complementary Verdant Temple landscaping plan. Temple’s vibrant residential campus continues to evolve, with exciting new academic and recreation spaces, as well as significant renovations and upgrades. Learn more about Temple’s changing campus. Community Temple's ties to its community are strong and deep, dating back to its founding in 1884 as an institution that served working people in the local community. Today, the university has not strayed from its original mission and remains a beacon of public service, social activism and community engagement. Learn more about Temple's community. Go Back HomeMore in About Board of Trustees President Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Libraries Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.