Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Health Sciences (BS) – Pre-Clinical Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Health Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Bachelor of Science degree in Health Sciences is designed for students with an interest in human health who plan to pursue health-focused careers. The Pre-Clinical track provides students with a solid educational background in basic and health-related sciences, while providing the foundation courses required for admission to graduate level clinical programs including but not limited to medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, optometry, physician assistant, and other health-related professions. Degree Requirements Students who change programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must have a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 for acceptance into the Pre- Clinical track. Students selecting the Pre-Clinical track are classified as "pending" until the program verifies that they meet the GPA requirements for this track. Students who meet the requirements are changed to the Pre-Clinical track. Courses listed below under the GEP and CPP categories usually are completed during the first 60 credit hours and may be taken at an institution within the Florida College System. A minimum grade of "C" (2.0) in each program prerequisite course, in each core requirement course, and in each restricted elective is required. Students should note that graduate programs may require a higher level of performance for admission. No transfer course will be accepted with a grade lower than a "C" (2.0). Students must achieve a minimum 3.0 overall GPA for graduation. Students who do not meet the minimum overall 3.0 GPA graduation requirement will be automatically moved to the Health Sciences – Health Promotion track during their graduation term and will earn the Health Sciences – Health Promotion track B.S. if they have met all other program requirements. Students who do not meet the overall minimum 3.0 GPA graduation requirement and wish to delay graduation instead of being moved to the Health Sciences - Health Promotion track, must formally petition the department no more than 7 days after grades are posted for the term. Final approval to delay graduation and remain in the Pre-Clinical track is at the discretion of the department. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Bachelors Health Sciences (BS) - Pre-Clinical Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Science degree in Health Sciences is designed for students with an interest in human health who plan to pursue health-focused careers. The Pre-Clinical track provides students with a solid educational background in basic and health-related sciences, while providing the foundation courses required for admission to graduate level clinical programs including but not limited to medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, optometry, physician assistant, and other health-related professions. Degree Requirements Students who change programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students must have a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 for acceptance into the Pre- Clinical track. Students selecting the Pre-Clinical track are classified as "pending" until the program verifies that they meet the GPA requirements for this track. Students who meet the requirements are changed to the Pre-Clinical track. Courses listed below under the GEP and CPP categories usually are completed during the first 60 credit hours and may be taken at an institution within the Florida College System. A minimum grade of "C" (2.0) in each program prerequisite course, in each core requirement course, and in each restricted elective is required. Students should note that graduate programs may require a higher level of performance for admission. No transfer course will be accepted with a grade lower than a "C" (2.0). Students must achieve a minimum 3.0 overall GPA for graduation. Students who do not meet the minimum overall 3.0 GPA graduation requirement will be automatically moved to the Health Sciences – Health Promotion track during their graduation term and will earn the Health Sciences – Health Promotion track B.S. if they have met all other program requirements. Students who do not meet the overall minimum 3.0 GPA graduation requirement and wish to delay graduation instead of being moved to the Health Sciences - Health Promotion track, must formally petition the department no more than 7 days after grades are posted for the term. Final approval to delay graduation and remain in the Pre-Clinical track is at the discretion of the department. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: HUN2201 - Fundamentals of Human Nutrition (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: HSC2524 - Introduction to Human Disease (3) HSC2000 - Introduction to Careers in Health Professions (3) HSC3110 - Medical Self Assessment (3) Core Requirements: Advanced 24 Total Credits Complete the following: HSC3147 - Introduction to Pharmacology (3) HSC3211 - Preventive Health Care (3) HSC4555 - Pathophysiology I (3) HSC4558 - Pathophysiology II (3) HSC4501 - Epidemiology of Chronic Diseases (3) HSC4730 - Applied Health Research Methodology (3) HSC4572 - Clinical Nutrition (3) HSC4930 - Health Sciences Seminar (3) Restricted Electives 28 Total Credits Earn at least 28 credits from the following types of courses: The Pre-Clinical track provides the foundation courses required for admission to graduate level clinical and non-clinical health programs including but not limited to medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, optometry, physician assistant, and other health-related professions. Students are advised to check the program's website for updated information and suggested electives for specific health professions graduate programs. It is the student's responsibility to check with graduate programs to meet prerequisites. Some courses listed below may have additional prerequisite course requirements. Course selection should be in consultation with an advisor and may vary by student depending on career goals and objectives. Students must meet restricted elective credit hour requirements and UCF's 42 upper division credit hour requirements. Courses completed and already used to satisfy General Education Program, Basic Level, Advanced Level requirements may not be used to meet the Restricted Elective requirement. HSC 4943 - Health Sciences Internship Credit Hours: 3 HSC 4553 - Concepts in Pathophysiological Diagnosis Credit Hours: 3 HSC 3432 - Occupational Safety for the Health Care Professional Credit Hours: 3 HSC 4008 - Professional Development in Health Professions Credit Hours: 3 HSC 3110 - Medical Self Assessment Credit Hours: 3 HSC 3102 - Foundations of Health Behavior Credit Hours: 3 CHM 2210 - Organic Chemistry I Credit Hours: 3 CHM 2211 - Organic Chemistry II Credit Hours: 3 CHM 2211L - Organic Laboratory Techniques I Credit Hours: 2 BCH 4053 - Biochemistry I Credit Hours: 3 BCH 4054 - Biochemistry II Credit Hours: 3 BCH 4024 - Medical Biochemistry Credit Hours: 4 MCB 3020C - General Microbiology Credit Hours: 5 PCB 3023 - Molecular Cell Biology Credit Hours: 3 PCB 3063 - Genetics Credit Hours: 3 PCB 3063L - Genetics Laboratory Credit Hours: 1 PCB 3233 - Immunology Credit Hours: 3 PCB 3233L - Immunology Laboratory Credit Hours: 1 PCB 4805 - Endocrinology Credit Hours: 3 MCB 3202 - Principles of Infectious Disease Credit Hours: 3 ZOO 3744 - Neurobiology Credit Hours: 3 ZOO 4743C - Clinical Neuroanatomy and Neuroscience Credit Hours: 4 MCB 3203 - Pathogenic Microbiology Credit Hours: 3 MCB 3203L - Pathogenic Microbiology laboratory Credit Hours: 1 PET 3351 - Applied Exercise Physiology Credit Hours: 3 PET 4312C - Applied Biomechanics Credit Hours: 3 PET 4088 - Physical Activity & Preventive Medicine Credit Hours: 3 PET 4552 - Exercise Prescription for Special Populations Credit Hours: 3 HSC 3537 - Medical Terminology Credit Hours: 3 SYO 4400 - Medical Sociology Credit Hours: 3 CLP 3143 - Abnormal Psychology Credit Hours: 3 Grand Total Credits: 58 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida