Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Our Organization About Columbia Health Confidentiality Confidentiality Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Columbia Health adheres to strict standards of confidentiality regarding health-related information, services rendered, or any other privileged information to which Columbia Health has access. Please review the Notice of Privacy Practices, Patient Rights, Patient Responsibilities, and unit specific details below. Communicating with Us Throughout our website, we list email addresses as a convenient option for contacting Columbia Health. However, we cannot guarantee the confidentiality or immediacy of email communication, and therefore, email should never be used in an emergency. Please use our secure online messaging feature in lieu of email. You will need your UNI and password. Notice of Privacy Practices These records are not part of students’ educational records and are not available to deans or faculty. To further protect the privacy of students, we require students' written consent (for Counseling and Psychological Services as well as for Medical Services) to release information about their care. There are rare exceptions to the right to privacy and to the confidentiality practices described above, such as in situations that pose a threat to life or in which there is reason to believe a child is being abused. If you have questions regarding our confidentiality policies, contact us: For Counseling and Psychological Services, questions may be directed to Associate Director for Operations Sara Berger at 212-854-2878. For Medical Services, questions may be directed to Associate Director of Patient Services Dr. Rosagna Rubiano at 212-854-7426. For more information about patients' rights and responsibilities, download the Patient Bill of Rights and the Patient Responsibilities resources. Expand all Collapse all Counseling and Psychological Services and Medical Services Clinicians work as a team and consult with one another as needed. When necessary to insure the quality and coordination of care, there may also be communication between these two clinical services and other divisions of Columbia Health. Each clinical service maintains secure and private treatment records. Read our Notice of Privacy Practices for more info. Disability Services The Family Educational Rights Privacy Act (FERPA) regulates disclosure of disability documentation and records maintained by Disability Services. Under this federal act, prior written consent by the student is required before Disability Services may release disability documentation or records, except under very specific circumstances. Read our Notice of Privacy Practices for more info. Neither your registration with Disability Services nor approval for accommodations is indicated in any way on your Columbia transcript. Sexual Violence Response Sexual Violence Response is a New York State-certified rape crisis center, providing confidential crisis counseling, intervention, and advocacy on behalf of survivors of violence. Under N.Y. CPLR § 4510 – New York State Rape Crisis Counselor Confidentiality, a rape crisis counselor shall not be required to disclose a communication made by his or her client to him or her, or advice given thereon, in the course of his or her services nor shall any clerk, stenographer or other person working for the same program as the rape crisis counselor or for the rape crisis counselor be allowed to disclose any such communication or advice given thereon nor shall any records made in the course of the services given to the client or recording of any communications made by or to a client be required to be disclosed, nor shall the client be compelled to disclose such communication or records, except: that a rape crisis counselor may disclose such otherwise confidential communication to the extent authorized by the client; that a rape crisis counselor shall not be required to treat as confidential a communication by a client which reveals the intent to commit a crime or harmful act; in a case in which the client waives the privilege by instituting charges against the rape crisis counselor or the rape crisis program and such action or proceeding involves confidential communications between the client and the rape crisis counselor. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close