Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Research As a leading research institution, we encourage creative and analytical inquiry. UW–Madison provides students opportunities to work alongside world-renowned scholars in pursuit of groundbreaking research with the potential to change lives. Resources for researchers at UW Your path to discovery starts here UW–Madison is distinct for its breadth of disciplines and cross-campus research collaborations. Hands-on research opportunities abound for undergraduate students and span the social sciences, medicine, humanities, and STEM fields. Explore fields of study Undergraduate research opportunities Undergraduate Research Symposium It’s been really monumental for me to realize there are people who are really excited to help me get to where I want to go. Eryne Jenkins, a biology and environmental studies double major, conducts research in the Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility Laboratory. Eryne quickly found community while an undergraduate through numerous social and academic programs offered across campus. Read Eryne’s story We help researchers become innovators Our entrepreneurial campus is its own Silicon Valley. We help our scientists and scholars navigate every step of the commercial path from discovery to market, and bring their life-changing innovations to the masses. Whether it’s applying for a patent, attracting investors, or creating a spinoff company, our business engagement professionals guide the way. Transform your research into products and services A large research institution with an even larger mission: to improve lives around the world $1.3B Annual research spending (2020) 5th Most doctorates granted in the nation (2019) #7 National patent ranking (2020) #8 National research ranking (2020) Learn about the Wisconsin Idea Research News 3D scan will reveal the stories hidden within 1,200-year-old Wisconsin canoe COVID-19 subvariant BA.2 does not cause more severe illness than BA.1 New research shows no evidence of structural brain change with short-term mindfulness training See more research news Research In Depth Carousel of 3 notable research advancements. Use the headings or arrow keys to navigate between slides. Slide 1 Finding a new human ancestor UW–Madison anthropologists discovered fossils of Homo naledi, a new species on the human family tree, in 2013. A series of partnerships in South Africa continue to explore the beginnings of our universe, our species, and life on Earth. Learn more Slide 2 Cultivating the first embryonic stem cells In 1998, UW–Madison biologist James Thomson introduced the world to the first laboratory-derived human embryonic stem cells. The all-purpose cells are now used worldwide to test drugs and develop treatments for diseases. Learn more Slide 3 Solving the mystery of cosmic rays Stationed at the South Pole, UW–Madison researchers were among the first to find evidence of a source of high-energy cosmic neutrinos in 2017. Their discovery deep in the Antarctic ice helped to solve a century-old question of the origins of cosmic rays. Learn more 1/3 Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu