Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Arabic Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Arabic Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Arabic Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Arabic Develop a strong foundation in Arabic and learn to communicate in one of the world’s most widely used languages with the Undergraduate Certificate in Arabic in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 20-credit certificate program builds language skills and cultural competence, and it helps students pursuing a bachelor's degree gain a competitive edge in many fields and disciplines. The Arabic Undergraduate Certificate coursework helps you form the foundation to use Arabic socially and professionally. Whether you want to work in the U.S. or abroad, expertise in Arabic can help elevate your career opportunities. Classes & Curriculum The Arabic Certificate is awarded at the completion of your undergraduate degree. It is not a standalone program of study. Courses you will take as part of the curriculum include Arabic Elements I and II, Arabic Intermediate I and II, and Arabic Advanced I and II. Learn more about Arabic Undergraduate Certificate courses. Careers The ability to speak, read and write in more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It may increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. The Arabic Certificate is ideal for students considering careers in international business, government service, or other professions in which multilingual proficiency is desirable or even necessary. The critical skills gained from learning a foreign language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. Bilingual professionals fluent in Arabic and English are in high demand. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, job growth for interpreters and translators is projected to increase 19% by 2028. Students in the Arabic Certificate (Undergraduate) program are prepared for the professional global workforce. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Gordon Witty is the director of the Arabic program. Phone: 215-204-8268 Email: gwitty@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Arabic Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff members. Gordon Witty is the director of the Arabic program. Phone: 215-204-8268 Email: gwitty@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ARBC-CR2+ Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Arabic Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info