Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Centers and Institutes Center for Human Genetics at the Greenwood Genetics Center The Center for Human Genetics addresses research and clinical opportunities in human diagnostics and epigenetic therapeutics advancing personalized medicine for intellectual and developmental disabilities, autism, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and disorders of the immune and nervous systems. Located on the campus of the Greenwood Genetics Center as well as the main Clemson campus, the Center for Human Genetics represents another unique partnership for Clemson and will help create a research hub for human genetics research in Greenwood. A recent workshop, presented by Dr. Robert Anholt, targeted young investigators who would like to secure NIH funding and established investigators who may have had trouble getting funding from NIH. Dr. Anholt is director of faculty excellence at Clemson University. ➥ Watch a video of the workshop Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center (EPIC) EPIC stands at the forefront of biomedical research on eukaryotic pathogens, which are the causative agents of some of the most devastating and intractable diseases of humans including malaria, amoebic dysentery, sleeping sickness, Chagas disease and fungal meningitis. Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education The Center of Excellence in Mathematics and Science Education provides support, professional development, curricula, instructional materials and course work to improve the teaching of mathematics and the sciences in grades K through 16. Clemson University Genomics and Bioinformatics Facility The Clemson University Genomics and Bioinformatics Facility (CUGBF) helps investigators use the latest genomics technologies in their research. The heart of the facility is Illumina’s NextSeq 550 NGS platform, which offers high-throughput sequencing used in many applications such as whole-genome, transcriptome and targeted resequencing. CUGBF offers services to support the use of the NextSeq 550 from experimental design through bioinformatic deliverables. In addition to offering a full-service genomics lab and bioinformatics team, we pride ourselves in offering training to students to work alongside our staff members to learn genomic and bioinformatic techniques. Outside of the lab, we offer training and informational workshops to Clemson’s diverse scientific community. Clemson Nanomaterials Institute The Clemson Nanomaterials Institute (CNI) is dedicated to exploring the fundamental properties of nanomaterials and their applications. Electric arcs, lasers, ultrasonication, spark plasma sintering and chemical vapor deposition (CVD) are utilized to prepare a wide range of nanomaterials. Recent applications include the use of graphene foams in supercapacitors and lithium aluminum ion batteries, reduced graphene oxide in sodium ion batteries, graphene as a novel spacer material on silver thin-films to improve surface plasmon coupled emission, and graphene in polylactic acid polymer for triboelectric generation. Life Sciences Outreach Center The Life Sciences Outreach Center inspires and empowers the scientist within the next generation by making science relevant and fun through hands-on labs, camps and activities for learners of all ages. The center also engages the public through lectures and discussions of scientific issues and supports classroom teachers through course offerings and lesson ideas. Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Through the Department of Mathematical Sciences, the Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center (SMCC) serves researchers from Clemson University, commerce, industry and government by offering data analysis, statistical guidance and interpretation, problem solving, scientific computing and mathematical modeling. The center’s mission is to improve the quality of scientific analysis in support of Clemson’s research efforts across a broad range of disciplines. Research Home Centers and Institutes OSP/Submit Proposal Post Award Illustrations/Editing Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us