Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Justin Walter named Princeton’s assistant vice president for facilities finance and administrative services by the Office of Communications March 21, 2022, 3:49 p.m. Justin Walter, formerly deputy director of expense and capital budget for the New York City Office of Management & Budget, has been named Princeton’s assistant vice president for facilities finance and administrative services. He starts at Princeton on March 21. As assistant vice president for facilities finance and administrative services, Walter will provide strategic oversight of the University’s capital program and manage its budgets. He will also play a lead role in managing the University’s facilities operating budget and engage with the many on-campus constituents whom the operating budget impacts. Justin Walter Photo courtesy of Justin Walter “Justin is arriving at Princeton at an opportune time as we begin implementation of the most dynamic campus expansion program in our history,” said Vice President for Facilities KyuJung Whang, to whom Walter will report. “I look forward to Justin joining my senior leadership team as we manage our campus operations during this very active period.” “I am honored to join the Princeton University community and the facilities department leadership team,” said Walter, who has more than 18 years of experience in financial management. “I look forward to leading finance and administrative services in our efforts to support the maintenance, enhancement and growth of Princeton’s beautiful campus.”  Walter added, “I will take great pride in doing my small part to help Princeton deliver outstanding teaching, learning and research that benefits our world.” At Princeton, Walter will also lead a team of nearly 50 staff members and manage facilities’ large portfolio. “Having worked at highly complex organizations for the City of New York, with a varied portfolio including budgeting, capital project financing and procurement management, Justin brings a wealth of experience in leading our finance and administrative functions,” said Whang. In his most recent role in the New York City Office of Management & Budget, Walter conducted planning and provided management and administration oversight for a large portfolio of New York City’s agency expenses and capital budgets. He also advised senior leadership, including the mayor, on agency budgets and operations, and worked to ensure effective agency operations and efficient allocation of resources. Walter graduated with a bachelor of arts in political science from Johns Hopkins University. He earned a master’s of public and nonprofit administration from New York University’s Robert F. Wagner School of Public Service with a specialization in finance. Related Stories Whang named Princeton's next vice president for facilities Read more Ibeh named Princeton’s associate vice president for capital projects Read more Kazda appointed AVP for capital projects at Princeton Read more Gadi Dechter named Princeton vice president for communications and government affairs Read more Klaus appointed vice president for University Services Read more Burstein selected to be next president of Lawrence University Read more University staff work 24/7 to support on-campus community during coronavirus pandemic Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice