Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Academics Experiential Learning Clinics Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Representing the start-ups of low- and moderate-income entrepreneurs and fledgling businesses, students develop substantive knowledge and transactional lawyering skills by serving as pro bono counsel. More in this Section Explore Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic: COVID-19 Financial Help COVID-19 Legal Resources Business owners who are committed to strengthening communities—such as through job creation or by providing valuable goods and services for their communities—often have limited resources. Students provide these clients with essential legal counsel through a wide range of transactional legal services while also receiving the hands-on, practical experience needed to navigate the evolving fields of entrepreneurship and community development. The clinic not only promotes economic empowerment and social innovation but also contributes meaningfully to the entrepreneurial ecosystem in the New York City area. Students advise clients on a variety of legal issues crucial for new and emerging businesses including: Entity choice and corporate formation. Employment law. Trademark and copyright registration and protection. Strategizing, negotiating, drafting, and reviewing contracts and agreements. Ongoing corporate and regulatory matters. Public policy issues that impact small businesses and community organizations. Advanced Opportunities Students who choose to continue with the Advanced Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic can broaden their experience by: Providing community education and outreach to low- and moderate-income entrepreneurs and community-based organizations. Holding bi-weekly office hours with various incubators such as the Columbia Startup Lab. Assisting the clinic in identifying potential clients and partner organizations. Information for Clients The clinic represents organizations and small businesses that: Cannot afford outside legal counsel. Serve a community need. Have detailed business plans with defined goals. Have not received significant outside funding or financing from investors. Are located in New York State, preferably within the five boroughs of New York City. Successful applicants will meet with law students for an in-person interview and to review a retainer agreement detailing the scope and terms of the clinic’s representation. A signed agreement is required before any legal work begins. Our legal services are free. Clients are responsible for any outside costs associated with the clinic’s legal work such as government-mandated applications or filing fees. The clinic does not provide counsel on litigation, patents, complex tax matters, securities, public mergers or acquisitions, or international trade. Related Links Apply Now Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press In The Press Takedown Notices Are Threatening Online Thrift Shops—Just as Business Is Exploding Lynnise E. Pantin | The Verge Students News Clinic Students Forge Ahead During the Pandemic News Gift From Davis Polk to Expand Legal Services in West Harlem Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.