Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Office of the President Menu UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Home Office of the President Archive Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation May 24, 2022 Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation Ana Mari Cauce Resources Bias Reporting Tool Washington State Human Rights Commission Complaint Form UW Southeast Asian Community, Education and Leadership Network Department of American Ethnic Studies – Asian American & Philippine and Filipino American American Indian Studies – Oceana and Pacific Islander Studies At the UW, we celebrate the incredible diversity that makes us who we are and reflects the promise of the nation we aspire to be. May is recognized as National Asian American, Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, and it’s our opportunity to recognize the diverse Asian American (AA) and Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander (NHPI) people, cultures and communities whose stories and contributions have always been — and continue to be — a vital part of our nation’s life. Throughout our history, and today, the University of Washington has been home to a wealth of AA and NHPI pathbreakers and change-makers. AA and NHPI communities are also at the heart of our region’s history and heritage, with roots that extend back to the 1860s. Today, many in those communities are still struggling as we continue to witness rising incidents of anti-Asian hate, including violent attacks. We have a shared responsibility to not only forcefully denounce hateful acts and rhetoric, but to proactively celebrate the impact of AA and NHPI people and communities, raising awareness of the extraordinary accomplishments that have made our world more knowledgeable, innovative, creative and equitable. Last week, at the annual Office and Minority Affairs & Diversity Celebration, we had the opportunity to celebrate Frank Irigon, ’76, ’79, who has devoted his life to serving the region’s AA and NHPI communities. Honored with the Charles E. Odegaard Award, the UW’s highest achievement in diversity, he was the first Filipino American to serve on the ASUW Board of Control and later as ASUW 2nd VP, co-founder and editor of the first pan Asian periodical in Seattle, and co-founder and executive director of the International District Community Health Center. Frank Irigon’s leadership and activism in peace and social justice movements and service to community originated at the UW. His story is emblematic of how a culture rooted in diversity and equity contributes to the UW’s public mission to enrich the lives of all people — on and off campus. Today, from our Board of Deans and Chancellors, to a wide array of student leaders and organizations, to coursework and research, AA and NHPIs continue to strengthen our community and our collective impact on the world. Their many contributions reflect the fundamental principle that diversity, equity and inclusion are requirements for excellence, for our University and for every organization that aspires to be a force for progress. This month — and every month — let us celebrate the many ways that AA and NHPIs make, and have made, our world a better place, and let’s take this opportunity to reflect on the incredible tapestry of identity, experience, history and culture that makes us a pluralistic and multiethnic democracy. In celebrating AA and NHPI’s lives, stories, voices and impact, together, we can realize our vision of a more equitable, inclusive and vibrant society. Reimagining Safety at the University of Washington Creating learning, working and living environments that enable each of us to be successful requires a holistic approach to safety and well-being that brings together a range of resources in a coordinated, accountable manner. As we continuously evaluate the safety of our community, a rethinking of how we keep our University community safe is required. Learn More President’s Blog Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation 6 days ago We can all play a part in working to end racist violence 2 weeks ago Ending violence against Indigenous people starts with ending silence around it 4 weeks ago On Husky Giving Day, we all have a chance to make a difference 2 months ago More Subscribe Email RSS President’s Twitter Tweets by amcauce Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Invite the president Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA