Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Built Environments Architecture 208 Gould Hall 206-543-4180 Website Faculty Website archdept@uw.edu Architecture includes the study of building design, representation, computing, structures, construction materials, environmental control systems, history, theory, and professional practice. In its teaching, research, practice, and community engagement, the department addresses the traditions of architecture within the context of social and technological change, a legacy of craft in the making of architecture, an activist and community-based design process, and the principles of ethical action to address human and environmental concerns. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Architectural Design Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architectural Design Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architectural Design (w/Const Mgmt) Program of Study: Major: Architecture Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architecture Program of Study: Minor: Architecture Minor in Architecture Graduate Programs Program of Study: Master Of Architecture Master Of Architecture Master Of Architecture (Advanced Standing) Master Of Architecture (High-Performance Building) Master Of Architecture (History, Theory, Criticism) Master Of Architecture (History, Theory, Criticism) (Advanced Standing) Master Of Architecture (Materials And Fabrication) Master Of Architecture (Materials And Fabrication) (Advanced Standing) Master Of Architecture (Sustainable Systems And Design) Master Of Architecture (Sustainable Systems And Design) (Advanced Standing) Program of Study: Master Of Science In Architecture Master Of Science In Architecture (Design Computing) Master Of Science In Architecture (Design Technology) Master Of Science In Architecture (History And Theory) Undergraduate Programs Architecture 208 Gould Hall 206-543-3043 BAArch@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Architectural Design Program Overview The Department of Architecture offers two different options for undergraduate students interested in the field of architecture. The Architecture major is a seminar and research based (non-studio) degree that provides a liberal arts foundation. This program prepares students for further study and careers in architectural design and related disciplines. The Architectural Design major is a pre-professional studio based degree that prepares most students for graduate study in architecture and a professional career in the field. Both programs share a commitment to architecture and design as a field of knowledge that can have a profound impact on contemporary society. Non-majors interested in architecture are able to pursue a Minor in Architectural Design. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architectural Design Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architectural Design (w/Const Mgmt) Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architectural Design Credential Overview The Architectural Design major is a pre-professional degree that prepares candidates for admission with advanced standing to professional M.Arch programs. It is also good preparation for other roles in society that benefit from an understanding of and exposure to architectural design and problem solving such as government, development, planning, art, graphic design, and digital arts. Students develop visual literacy and complex problem solving skills through the design process, including researching historical precedents, analyzing theoretical texts, and on-site understanding of the physical built and natural environment. The college also offers a Dual Degree-Bachelor of Arts with a major in Architectural Design and a BS in Construction Management. Students must first be admitted to the Architectural Design major. Admission Requirements 90 credits to include the following: Preparatory Architectural Coursework (19 credits): ARCH 350, ARCH 351, ARCH 352 (9 credits); ARCH 200, ARCH 201 (10 credits). Note: These courses can be taken through UW Extension on a nonmatriculated basis, prior to admission to the UW, or they can be taken in the sophomore year on campus. General Education Requirements (70 credits): English composition (5 credits); Visual, Literary, and Performing Arts (VLPA) (20 credits); Individuals and Societies (I&S) (20 credits); Natural World (NW) (20 credits, including MATH 112, MATH 124, or MATH 145); additional Areas of Knowledge (5 credits). Electives (1 credits) While the cumulative GPA is an important factor in the admission evaluation, the committee places emphasis on the evaluation of performance in the preparatory architectural coursework the student has completed. It is to the student's advantage to take as many of these courses as possible before applying. Application deadline: May 15 for autumn quarter only. Prerequisite courses must be completed by the time the student enters the program in autumn quarter. Completion Requirements 90 credits Preprofessional Coursework (69 credits): ARCH 300, ARCH 301, ARCH 302, ARCH 315, ARCH 320, ARCH 321, ARCH 322, ARCH 362, ARCH 380, ARCH 400, ARCH 401, ARCH 402, ARCH 431, CM 313. One selective course in each of the following areas: (1) graphics/media; (2) history/theory; (3) building science/materials. Selective courses to be chosen from approved lists maintained by the department. 21 credits of approved upper-division electives. The final 45 credits must be completed as a matriculated student in residence through the UW. Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA for all work done in residence. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architectural Design (w/Const Mgmt) Credential Overview The Architectural Design major is a pre-professional degree that prepares candidates for admission with advanced standing to professional M.Arch programs. It is also good preparation for other roles in society that benefit from an understanding of and exposure to architectural design and problem solving such as government, development, planning, art, graphic design, and digital arts. Students develop visual literacy and complex problem solving skills through the design process, including researching historical precedents, analyzing theoretical texts, and on-site understanding of the physical built and natural environment. The college also offers a Dual Degree-Bachelor of Arts with a major in Architectural Design and a BS in Construction Management. Students must first be admitted to the Architectural Design major. Admission Requirements Dual-degree majors first apply to the architectural design program and must meet architectural design admission requirements. Admitted architectural design students apply to the construction management program during spring quarter of their junior year (first year in the architecture program). For architectural design students, construction management prerequisites are waived, but such students must take CM 313 and CM 323 prior to the construction management application deadline, April 1. Completion Requirements 142 credits Architecture Foundation Courses (60 credits): ARCH 300, ARCH 301, ARCH 302, ARCH 315, ARCH 320, ARCH 321, ARCH 322, ARCH 362, ARCH 380, ARCH 400, ARCH 401, ARCH 402, ARCH 431 Architecture Selectives (6 credits): 3 credits of graphic/media selective chosen from among the following BIM-recommended courses: ARCH 316, ARCH 410, ARCH 412, ARCH 413, ARCH 415, ARCH 418, ARCH 478, ARCH 481, ARCH 482, ARCH 484, ARCH 485, ARCH 486, ARCH 498. 3 credits of history/theory selective from among the following courses: ARCH 441, ARCH 442, ARCH 450, ARCH 452, ARCH 455, ARCH 457 Construction Management Courses (76 credits): CM 301; CM 310, CM 311, CM 312, CM 313, CM 321, CM 322, CM 323, CM 330, CM 331, CM 332, CM 333, CM 334, CM 335, CM 410, CM 411, CM 412, CM 414, CM 421, CM 422, CM 423, CM 426, CM 431 (capstone experience), CM 432, and CM 434 Additional Major Requirement: Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA in upper-division college courses completed in the College of Built Environments. Minimum 2.0 in CM 431 Note: A minimum of 225 credits is required to complete a dual degree. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Architecture Program Overview The Department of Architecture offers two different options for undergraduate students interested in the field of architecture. The Architecture major is a seminar and research based (non-studio) degree that provides a liberal arts foundation. This program prepares students for further study and careers in architectural design and related disciplines. The Architectural Design major is a pre-professional studio based degree that prepares most students for graduate study in architecture and a professional career in the field. Both programs share a commitment to architecture and design as a field of knowledge that can have a profound impact on contemporary society. Non-majors interested in architecture are able to pursue a Minor in Architectural Design. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architecture Admission Requirements Applicants are considered for autumn admission only. Admission is competitive. Admission groups are freshmen/sophomore admission (F/S A) and upper-division admission (UA). Consult department website for more information and application form. Freshman Admission The department enrolls freshman-year students directly out of high school, prior to their completion of any university-level prerequisites. All freshmen indicating architecture on their UW application are considered for freshman admission to the BA (with a major in architecture) program; no additional application materials are required. Students admitted as freshmen must complete all preparatory and general education requirements listed under upper-division admission as well as all major requirements in order to earn a degree. Sophomore Admission Application deadline is the first Monday of spring quarter. Admission decisions are based on an applicant's academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, and personal motivation. Completion of prerequisite requirements does not guarantee admission. Students admitted as sophomores must complete all preparatory and general education requirements listed under upper-division admission as well as all major requirements in order to earn a degree. Transfer Admission Transfer students may apply for admission at the beginning of the sophomore year or the beginning of the junior year. Application deadlines are the same as for sophomore or upper-division admission. Admission decisions are based on an applicant's academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, and personal motivation. Transfer students must also submit a separate application to the UW. Sophomore-year transfer students must complete all preparatory architectural coursework and general education requirements listed under upper-division admission requirements, as well as all major requirements, in order to earn a degree. Junior-year transfer students must complete all general education requirements and are strongly encouraged to complete all preparatory architectural coursework before entry into the program. These courses can be taken through UW Educational Outreach, on a non-matriculated basis, prior to admission to the UW. These, as well as all major requirements, must be completed in order for a student to earn a degree. Upper-Division Admission Requirements (UA) Junior Standing (90 or more credits completed by the quarter of admission), to include the following: Preparatory Architectural Coursework (19 credits): ARCH 200, ARCH 231, ARCH 350, ARCH 351, ARCH 352 General Education Requirements: minimum of 71 credits selected from Visual, Literary, and Performing Arts (VLPA) (20 credits); Individuals and Societies (I&S) (20 credits); Natural World (NW) (20 credits), including 5 credits of mathematics (MATH 112 or MATH 124); additional Areas of Knowledge (6 credits); electives (3 credits). Composition/writing (10 credits total) may be met by freshman English composition courses and/or other general education courses designated "W" with a minimum 2.0 grade for each course; diversity (3 credits) may be satisfied by general education courses designated DIV. Minimum 2.80 college/university GPA Department Application (See department website) Transcripts of all college-level work. Unofficial transcripts are accepted. Application Deadline: First Monday of spring quarter. For enrolled UW students, all prerequisite requirements must be completed or under way by the application deadline, and all prerequisite requirements must be completed by the time the student enters the program in autumn quarter. Admission decisions are based on an applicant's academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, and personal motivation. Completion of prerequisite requirements does not guarantee admission. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Architecture Credential Overview The Architecture major is a four-year, Bachelor of Arts degree program in which students explore the many factors that shape our built environment. The program provides a liberal arts foundation in the discipline of architecture that covers spatial reasoning, aesthetics, political and economic structures, socio-cultural influences, urbanism, landscape, construction, building technologies, and ecology. Students have the opportunity to focus their studies through a sequence of courses that allows concentration in one of three areas: History and Theory; Materials and Fabrication; and Sustainable Technologies. This program prepares students for graduate study in the field of architectural design as well as architectural history, historic preservation, landscape architecture, urban planning or construction management. It is also provides a foundation for careers in design, planning policy, law, community leadership, real estate, development or in related non-profit organizations. Completion Requirements Coursework (91 or more credits completed during years three and four): ARCH 331, ARCH 332, ARCH 361, ARCH 362, ARCH 468, ARCH 469. One history and theory selective course (3 credits), one craft and fabrication selective (3 credits), and one sustainable technologies selective (3 credits). Three Department of Architecture areas of concentration courses (at least 9 credits), two approved electives offered with College of Built Environment programs (at least 6 credits), five approved Department of Architecture electives (at least 15 credits), and at least 23 credits of approved upper-division electives. Selective and concentration courses are chosen from approved lists maintained by the department. Capstone (ARCH 469) completed in residence through the UW Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for all courses presented for the major Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Architecture Program Overview The Department of Architecture offers a Minor in Architecture. The Architecture minor is a good option for students to complement their major area of study and an opportunity for undergraduates to explore their interest in architecture related subjects such as: architectural history and theory; structures and building materials; graphic representation; digital design and computing; sustainable building technology; building and fabrication methods. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Architecture Minor in Architecture Credential Overview The Department of Architecture offers a Minor in Architecture. The Architecture minor is a good option for students to complement their major area of study and an opportunity for undergraduates to explore their interest in architecture related subjects such as: architectural history and theory; structures and building materials; graphic representation; digital design and computing; sustainable building technology; building and fabrication methods. Completion Requirements 25 credits Minimum of 20 credits in ARCH courses (at least 9 credits at the upper-division level) 5 additional upper-division credits from courses in the College of Built Environments Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The architecture program emphasizes a broad liberal arts foundation followed by a focus on architectural history and theory, materials and making, and sustainable technologies. Specific goals for student learning include an understanding of the sequences and history of human building activities; social, political, legal, and economic influences on design and construction; various architectural theories and current thought about the aesthetics of design; construction materials and their properties; relationships of buildings to their sites and ecological contexts; sustainable technologies used in building construction. The architectural design program emphasizes a broad liberal arts foundation followed by a focus on entry-level courses in architectural design, theory, the technology of building, and materials. Specific goals for student learning include an understanding of the organization of three-dimensional space in response to specific human needs; the sequences and history of human building activities; various architectural theories and current thought about the aesthetics of design; construction materials and their properties; building systems and their integration for human comfort; structural principles, relationships of buildings to their sites; social, political, legal, and economic influences of design and construction. Specific goals in the area of personal development include an ability to visualize three dimensions and think spatially; graphic, verbal, and written communication skills for design development and presentation; an ability to think critically and exercise self-criticism. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Internships are available and vary according to individual interests within the program. See adviser for details. Department Scholarships: A limited number of department scholarships are available to eligible students entering their final year of the major. Student Organizations/Associations: AIAS (American Institute of Architectural Students) Of Special Note: The UW's four-year, Bachelor of Arts degree in architectural design is a pre-professional degree and is not accredited by NAAB. The pre-professional degree is useful to those desiring a foundation in the field of architecture as preparation for either continued education in a professional degree program or for employment options in fields related to architecture. Architectural education at the University of Washington requires a minimum of six or seven years of higher education to attain the first professional degree, the Master of Architecture. The curriculum is divided into three two-year segments of coursework with a pre-professional Bachelor of Arts degree (with a major in architectural design) awarded at the completion of the second two-year segment. The professional degree, Master of Architecture, is awarded only upon completion of the third segment. (Students with the Bachelor of Arts in Architecture or bachelor's degrees in unrelated fields take an additional year of coursework). Graduate Programs Architecture MArchUW@uw.edu Program of Study: Master Of Architecture Program Overview In the United States, most registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit professional degree programs in architecture offered by institutions with U.S. regional accreditation, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted an eight-year term, an eight-year term with conditions, or a two-year term of continuing accreditation, or a three-year term of initial accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established education standards. Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may require a non-accredited undergraduate degree in architecture for admission. However, the non-accredited degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree. The University of Washington Department of Architecture offers the following NAAB-accredited degree programs: M. Arch. (undergraduate degree with architecture major + 90 graduate quarter credits) M. Arch. (undergraduate degree with non-architecture major + 135 graduate quarter credits) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Architecture Master Of Architecture (Advanced Standing) Master Of Architecture (High-Performance Building) Master Of Architecture (History, Theory, Criticism) Master Of Architecture (History, Theory, Criticism) (Advanced Standing) Master Of Architecture (Materials And Fabrication) Master Of Architecture (Materials And Fabrication) (Advanced Standing) Master Of Architecture (Sustainable Systems And Design) Master Of Architecture (Sustainable Systems And Design) (Advanced Standing) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Architecture Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (Advanced Standing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (High-Performance Building) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (History, Theory, Criticism) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (History, Theory, Criticism) (Advanced Standing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (Materials And Fabrication) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (Materials And Fabrication) (Advanced Standing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (Sustainable Systems And Design) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Architecture (Sustainable Systems And Design) (Advanced Standing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science In Architecture This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science In Architecture (Design Computing) Master Of Science In Architecture (Design Technology) Master Of Science In Architecture (History And Theory) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science In Architecture (Design Computing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science In Architecture (Design Technology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science In Architecture (History And Theory) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA