Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now News Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Global Health, Infectious Disease Feb. 26 2019 Study Traces Origins of Chikungunya in Brazil New evidence suggests that Chikungunya virus arrived in Brazil at least one year earlier than it was detected by public health surveillance systems. Scientists at the Center for Infection and Immunity (CII) at the Columbia Mailman School of Public Health and Fundação Oswaldo Cruz published their findings in the journal Scientific Reports. Blood samples collected at the Institute Nacional de Infectologia in Rio de Janeiro between March 2016 and June 2017 were analyzed using a genetic test, the QuantiTect/QuantiNova Prove RT-PCR Kit. The test identified 40 samples positive for Chikungunya virus and negative for Dengue virus and Zika virus. Researchers then retested these samples using the CII-ArboViroPlex, a multiplex test developed by CII that can simultaneously scan for the presence of Zika virus, all serotypes of dengue virus, chikungunya virus, and West Nile virus. The CII test confirmed the earlier testing, but performed with greater sensitivity, suggesting it could identify the virus when other tests could not. Fourteen of these samples representing dates across the fifteen-month collection period were further analyzed using VirCapSeq-VERT, a method developed at CII for viral diagnosis, surveillance, and discovery. VirCapSeq-VERT enabled recovery of near-complete viral genomic sequences and identification of the viruses as representatives of the East-Central-South-African genotype of chikungunya virus. An analysis of the fourteen genomic sequences showed a strong correlation between genetic divergence and the date at which the sample was taken. This allowed the researchers to identify a “molecular clock” based on the pace of mutations between samples. The timing suggested the virus could have circulated as early as 2012 and was likely imported from Central Africa. Chikungunya virus was first reported by public health surveillance systems in 2014. “With heightened concerns around Zika, more Brazilians were tested for the infection,” says Nischay Mishra, PhD, the study’s leader at CII. “At the same time, many of those tested were actually infected with dengue or chikungunya, which present with similar symptoms.” “This study demonstrates the value of sensitive diagnostic technologies that can differentiate between these infectious diseases and provide insights into the origins of the chikungunya outbreak in Brazil,” says first author Thiago Moreno L. Souza, a professor of biochemistry at Fundação Oswaldo Cruz in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Additional authors include Yasmine Rangel Vieira, Edson Delatorre, Giselle Barbosa-Lima, Raul Leal Faria Luiz, Alexandre Vizzoni, Komal Jain, Milene Mesquita, Nishit Bhuva, Jan F. Gogarten, James Ng, Riddhi Thakkar, Andrea Surrage Calheiros, Ana Paula Teixeira Monteiro, Patrícia T. Bozza, Fernando A. Bozza, Diogo A. Tschoeke, Luciana Leomil, Marcos Cesar Lima de Mendonça, Cintia Damasceno dos Santos Rodrigues, Maria C. Torres, Ana Maria Bispo de Filippis, Rita Maria Ribeiro Nogueira, Fabiano L. Thompson, Cristina Lemos, Betina Durovni, José Cerbino-Neto, and Carlos M. Morel. This study was financed in part by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brasil (CAPES); National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq); Ministry of Science, Technology, Information and Communications; Research Foundation of the State of Rio de Janeiro and Oswaldo Cruz Foundation; the National Institutes of Health (AI109761), the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research, and the People Programme (Marie Curie Actions) of the European Union’s Seventh Framework Programme. About VirCapSeq-VERT VirCapSeq-VERT, a streamlined version of unbiased sequencing, references a library of sequences selected from among approximately 2 million genetic pieces, representing all viral taxa known to infect vertebrates. These genetic pieces are used to constitute a probe, which is introduced alongside material taken from the sample being tested. A magnetic process “pulls out” segments from the sample that match the probe; these segments are then analyzed using high-throughput sequencing. A 2015 study reported that the method resulted in 100 to 10,000-fold increases in viral matches compared with conventional high-throughput tests. The test has been used in studies of type 1 diabetes in Australia, respiratory disease in Uganda, and unexplained illness in Tanzania. Related Stories Viruses That Linger in the Gut Could Trigger Type 1 Diabetes Precision Public Health Method Identifies Clusters of Respiratory Disease in Uganda Unexplained Illness in Tanzania Puts Pathogen Discovery to the Test Related Faculty Nischay Mishra Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In the Center for Infection and Immunity) at the Columbia University Medical Center W. Ian Lipkin John Snow Professor Epidemiology, Professor of Neurology and Pathology and Cell Biology Contact Us Timothy S. Paul Phone: 212-305-2676 Email: tp2111@columbia.edu More in Global Health Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox Outbreak For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later Life Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers