Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education, BS Nurture Educational Experiences for Children and Their Families Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Create a Learning Environment That Inspires Diverse Leaners The B.S. in Elementary Education program at UCF prepares you to become an elementary classroom teacher. You’ll gain a number of hands-on skills, developing pedagogy and content knowledge needed to meet the needs of K-6 students. Coursework covers various elementary subject areas, including reading, language arts, mathematics, social studies and science. It also provides you with first-hand experience in teaching learners with varying abilities, including students with disabilities and English learners. Plus, you’ll have the opportunity to work with the latest technologies that are used in teaching and learning environments. K-6 Certification Track This track meets the educational requirements for certification in Elementary Education (K-6) in the State of Florida. In addition to your coursework, you’ll be required to complete two teaching internships. Upon graduating, you’ll be prepared to teach elementary grades (K-6) and will earn ESOL and Reading Endorsements. Professional Studies Track (non-certification) You’ll want to choose this track if your goal is to work with students in a traditional K-6 classroom setting, but you have not yet passed the required exams to be admitted into the K-6 Certification Track. During the program, you’ll complete the required classes and two teaching internships. Upon graduating, you may teach under temporary certification and work toward professional certification. Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification) This track is a great option if you’re seeking opportunities for employment outside formal, K-12 schools that don’t require certification. You’ll learn to teach children in other settings outside of traditional elementary schools, such as museums, science or marine programs, among other opportunities. Highlights The elementary education K-6 Certification track at UCF is a state-approved teacher education preparation program by the Florida Department of Education. Our teaching, service and research aim to help end societal issues that negatively impact our communities. We want to help establish a new social equilibrium — one that starts with equity. Florida is expected to see an average of 6,200 annual openings for elementary school teachers through 2028. The Florida median earnings for elementary school teachers is approximately $48K. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Literature for Children Gain an understanding of criteria for analysis and evaluation of children’s literature in terms of interests, needs and abilities of children. Practicum for Assessment and Instruction of Reading Explore practicum that provides opportunity to apply knowledge of reading assessment and instruction in order to increase reading proficiency of struggling readers. Concurrent school experience required. Elementary Education Capstone Colloquium Refine skills and competencies in teaching and learning as identified by the Florida Educator Accomplished Practices and examine contemporary issues in elementary education. In a fast-paced changing world, education is constantly evolving. UCF's innovative elementary education program prepares students with a rich background of fundamental teaching strategies, as well as tools to make them successful for the future of teaching and learning. It provides the next generation of teachers a valuable array of skills surrounding curriculum, technology, mental health and equity.” — Jake Novak, Principal at Stenstrom Elementary Elementary Education Skills You’ll Learn Teach all content areas at the elementary level. Differentiate instruction and teach all learners. Infuse technology into instruction. Apply effective classroom management strategies. Career Opportunities Elementary Teacher, Primary Grades Elementary Teacher, Intermediate Grades Curriculum Developer Trainer for Educational Programs Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Finding Your Passion at UCF Through Research Annaliese Bullock expects to graduate this May with a master’s degree in educational leadership with a track higher education/student personnel track Community UCF Space Experts Work with School Teachers to Bring University Research Alive in Classrooms Local teachers work alongside UCF faculty to develop age-appropriate activities with connections to the Artemis program and other NASA missions. Colleges & Campus Charter Faculty Member Harry O. Hall Recognized University’s Potential The veteran educator — who recently died at 92 — began designing College of Education programs a year before classes started in 1968. Research UCF Professors Awarded NSF Grant to Empower Orange County K-8 Mathematics Teachers Researchers in collaboration with Orange County Public Schools and City Year Orlando launch a program that includes creating a new doctoral specialization. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Elementary Education (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida