Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Understanding the metabolic pathways to obesity and diabetes Posted on September 30, 2019 By College of Human Ecology, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X MARTHA FIELD: So our work has identified new activities of two known enzymes that participate in conversion of glucose to a 4-carbon sugar alcohol called erythritol. This is interesting to us because elevated plasma levels of erythritol are associated with onset of type 2 diabetes and central adiposity, or central fat gain. Erythritol is a 4-carbon sugar alcohol found naturally in fruits and vegetables. And so typical human intake is about a gram a day. However, because acute doses are rapidly absorbed and excreted, it's also used as a non-caloric sugar substitute. In addition, it can be included at concentrations of up to 1% in beverages but labeled as a natural flavor. Several studies have identified this link between elevated plasma erythritol and risk for type 2 diabetes and weight gain. We have begun to characterize the metabolic pathway linking glucose to a erythritol synthesis. This could be a novel point for interventions to combat type 2 diabetes and obesity. But we can't design interventions until we understand or fully characterize the pathway-- until we understand how the pathway works. At this point, we're one step closer. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Martha Field, an assistant professor in the College of Human Ecology, is studying the metabolic pathways that lead to the creation of erythritol, a byproduct of the body’s synthesis of glucose. Understanding this metabolic path could open an array of possibilities for beating obesity, heart disease and type 2 diabetes. More About health obesity diabetes heart disease What to watch next 2:04:00 MyPlaylist Symposium looks at food systems and human health 1:13:42 MyPlaylist Inside Cornell: NYC Mayor Soda Ban Panel 2:36 MyPlaylist Tanzeem Choudhury: The Sad Clownfish surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×