Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs iProv Summer Fellowship The SPRINT-iProv Summer Fellowship provides 30 undergraduate students with a stipend (and a SEW, for qualifying students) to engage in 8-10 week internships with nonprofit organizations based in the greater Providence area. Students are part of a structured and supportive cohort that meets regularly to build skills and competencies for community engagement. iProv workshops will focus on topics such as critical reflection, cultural humility, civic engagement, and effective leadership and action. SPRINT (Summer/Semester Projects for Research, Internship, Teaching) serves as the umbrella application for funded experiential learning opportunities, including iProv, BrownConnect LINKs, and other awards. The base stipend for domestic SPRINT Awards is $2,500 and $3,000 for international awards. In addition, students with Brown financial aid will automatically receive an additional Gap Award ranging from $2,000 - $3,000 based on their Parent Contribution/Responsibility as determined by the Office of Financial Aid, for a total of $4,500 - $5,500. Past internship placements have included ¡CityArts!, Dorcas International Institute, Farm Fresh Rhode Island, Generation Citizen, Lifespan Health, ONE Neighborhood Builders, Partnership for Providence Parks, Refugee Dream Center, Rhode Island Center for Justice, Rhode Island Department of State Elections, and Youth In Action. iProv is a joint project of the Swearer Center and CareerLAB. Structure The goals of iProv are to: Provide a valuable internship experience that, when coupled with sequential training, can contribute to the educational experience of students and encourage them to make connections between their academic work and their career aspirations. Create a learning community of students engaged in thinking about the nature of nonprofit work, the dynamics of community change, connections and overlaps between academic and community work, and active citizenship. Enhance the capacity of nonprofit community organizations to utilize student interns effectively. Strengthen partnerships between the Swearer Center and community organizations and expand Brown’s support of community organizations and the City of Providence. If accepted, students are guaranteed a summer internship placement. iProv is a fellowship; in addition to an internship, students participate in regular workshops and meetings with other fellows. Program Expectations Internships must be 8-10 weeks and be the student's primary summer engagement opportunity. Internship dates are approximately June 2 – August 5, 2022. Students must be available all dates required by the organization. Internship is for the summer only. Fellows are required to attend an orientation on June 1, 2022 as well as group meetings every other week during the summer on Thursday afternoons from 1pm to 3pm and a closing celebration event. Fellows will create an account on BrownEngage - the volunteer recruitment and management web platform that the university shares with its partner organizations. Through this portal, fellows will submit: a work plan, developed with a site supervisor prior to the start of the internship; hours engaged with the organization; a written reflective piece (due no later than September 1, 2022). Fellows will be required to fill out a UFunds profile and agree to the award terms. Eligibility All undergraduates who will be enrolled during Spring 2022 and Fall 2022 semester are eligible. This includes all students regardless of citizenship and current location of study. Students may not be on a leave of absence from Brown either in the semester they are applying nor in the period when they would receive the funding. Students who have received summer funding from BrownConnect (LINK, UTRA, Signature Programs) in a previous summer will not receive priority consideration in the awards process, but are eligible to apply again: You have applied for or secured an unpaid summer internship or research experience that pays $1,500 or less and will not receive additional funding from another source, including other fellowships, Brown departments, etc. Priority will be given to students receiving university scholarships. Please note that BrownConnect may work with Brown’s Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards to ensure that applicants are in compliance with conduct expectations. Apply This application is accessible here. Applicants with questions may refer to the FAQs. The application deadline is February 9, 2022. Please note this is the only deadline for SPRINT-iProv awards. Applicants will be notified by the end of March, but may be notified sooner on a rolling basis up until March 31, 2022. Contact Community Partnership Team: [email protected] Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Celebrating the Class of 2021. read> See All iProv Summer Fellowship Stories Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat