Skip to Navigation CU Home / Facilities and Operations Home Help Me Find Information About ... Requesting a Service Initiating a Project University Apartment Housing Parking Careers CUIMC Facilities Management Disability Access and Service Alerts Tracking a Work Order Contacting a Representative About My Building Working with Facilities Manhattanville Updates Renting Space On Campus Columbia University Facilities Welcome to Our Web site! Facilities is here 24 hours a day, seven days a week supporting the University. Whether we're planning a campus renovation, breaking ground on a new building, maintaining our award-winning buildings and grounds or keeping our campus safe, our staff help keep the University moving forward. Click on our pages to learn more about who we are and how we can help you. Click here for Medical Center (CUMC) Facilities Management How Can We Help You? Request A Service: Call (212) 854-2222 or request online (UNI required). Disability Access and Service Alerts Initiate a New Construction or Renovation Project Contact Your Building Representative Report a Public Safety Emergency: Call (212) 854-5555 News and Announcements South Lawn Status South Field West: Closed South Field East: Closed Hamilton Lawn: Closed Furnald Lawn: Closed During early fall and late spring, the goal in lower campus is to have at least one of the large South Field lawns and one of the smaller lawns accessible every day, condition dependent. Last updated: 12/17/18 @ 11:40am *This information may change due to weather conditions or unforeseen circumstances Furnald Lawn Added to Existing Tented Locations New Outdoor Seating Amenities Meet Demand for Outdoor Dining and Community Use New Outdoor Tented Areas Provide More, Safe Options for Small Events and Community Use All Announcements Did You Know? Columbia University Facilities' Planning and Space Information division is your first stop to arrange renovations and space changes. Search Multi-site: Home Request Service Undergraduate Housing Graduate Student and Faculty Housing Public Safety Parking Construction & Renovations Fire Safety Sustainability Working with Columbia Building Information Documents and Policies About Us Contact Us Facilities Employees (Intranet) Track your Service Request | Sitemap | Questions or Comments about our Site? Site Designed by CUIT Copyright © 2022 Columbia University