SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Curriculum Curriculum Majors and Specializations Real Estate Majors and Specializations Real Estate Home Degrees & Programs Bachelor of Business Administration Curriculum Majors and Specializations Jump To A Section Overview Majors Specializations Contact Us MEET 1:1 WITH ADMISSIONS Request More Information Start Your Application Overview Your BBA major consists of 11 business core courses and between six and eight major-specific courses. Choose one of the six majors below. You can also add one specialization. Many Cox BBA students supplement their business major with majors or minors outside of the Cox School. Majors Accounting Rigorous academics combine with valuable professional connections and internships with the world's top public accounting firms. Business Analytics and Supply Chain Management It combines a skill-based business analytics component with a functional supply chain management curriculum focused on business operations and cost-efficient processes, production, and distribution. Finance Immersive experiences and specialized skills boost you to the top of your field. (A specialization in Alternative Asset Management is available.) General Business Customize your curriculum and explore different disciplines by choosing from a variety of Cox courses when fulfilling your requirements. Management Learn the essential skills you'll need to rise in a variety of roles and settings — from project management and decision-making, to negotiations and ethics. Marketing Prepare for a career in sales, retail, advertising, marketing research and general marketing management by learning how to understand customer behavior. Real Estate Finance Enjoy the resources of Cox's Robert and Margaret Folsom Institute for Real Estate — and make connections in the country's most dynamic real estate city. (This is also available as a specialization.) Specializations Energy Management This specialization complements your major to prepare you for a career in a number of fields. The curriculum reflects the current global energy mix and also reflects the future of renewables. Entrepreneurship Learn to be an innovator from faculty with Silicon Valley IPO start-up and international entrepreneurship experience. The training and connections will serve you wherever you're headed. Real Estate Finance Specialization courses in real estate fundamentals, finance, law and valuation set you up for a variety of careers. Risk Management & Insurance Practice meets theory through a series of interactions with insurance practitioners and corporate risk managers representing a variety of industry sectors and perspectives. Current students should check the SMU Catalogs for degree requirements, which are based on the year of entry to SMU. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter