Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Holiday Schedule You are here Home About Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Listed below are the official university holidays for fiscal year 2022–2023. Fourth of July Monday, July 4, 2022 Labor Day Monday, Sept. 5, 2022 Thanksgiving Thursday, Nov. 24, 2022, and Friday, Nov. 25, 2022 Winter Break Following close of business on Thursday, Dec. 22, 2022, through Friday, Dec. 30, 2022 New Year’s Day Monday, Jan. 2, 2023 Memorial Day Monday, May 29, 2023 The university will be closed from the close of business Thursday, Dec. 22, 2022, through Friday, Dec. 30, 2022. The university will reopen on Tuesday, Jan. 3, 2023. For employees, this means that in addition to the holidays already offered, Temple employees will have paid days off on Dec. 27, 28, 29 and 30 this year if they are in a paid status on Thursday, Dec. 22, 2022, and Tuesday, Jan. 3, 2023. Any employee required to work during this period will receive compensatory time rather than holiday or overtime pay. Additional Information Please note that employees of the Office of Campus Safety Services and Facilities Management will be scheduled off in accordance with the needs of those departments and the applicable collective bargaining agreements. Also, the School of Medicine and the School of Podiatric Medicine may issue separate policies regarding closing days. Personnel at those locations will receive scheduling information from their supervisors. Finally, this memo does not apply to employees of the Temple University Health System (TUHS). TUHS employees should receive separate information from the Health System regarding their scheduled holidays. The national observance of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday will be on Monday, Jan. 16, 2023. Since the university does not generally observe federal holidays, including Columbus Day, Presidents Day, Veterans Day and Election Day, the national holiday observance of Dr. King’s birthday will be a regular working day at the university. Under the terms of their collective bargaining agreement, the District 1199c clerical bargaining unit members, including secretarial-clerical staff, are entitled to a paid holiday for the national observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day on Jan. 16, 2023. Those who are required to work on Jan. 16, 2023, must be paid in accordance with their collective bargaining agreement. Other employees may request to take Jan. 16, 2023, as a vacation or personal day with the permission of their supervisor. Members of the SEIU/BUE Local 612 bargaining unit will be governed by the terms of their collective bargaining agreement. They will be entitled to a paid holiday on Monday, Jan. 16, 2023, observing Dr. King’s actual birthday. If you have any questions regarding the observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, please contact the Human Resources, Labor Relations area at extension 7-2290. Set forth below is additional information that outlines the university’s policies on religious holidays which will occur throughout the year. Although the official university calendar does not recognize religious holidays, it is essential to respect the religious beliefs of faculty, students and staff. We want to remind everyone that, on some days, some members of the Temple community exercise their constitutional rights and do not meet regular assignments for religious reasons. If an instructor wishes to reschedule a class session because of a religious holiday, the rescheduling should be consistent with policies of the school or college and following consultation with the students. An instructor who cannot attend a scheduled class session should find a suitable replacement for that session, consistent with school or college policies. Faculty members who conduct classes on religious holidays are asked to be considerate of students who may request an absence or an adjustment to the scheduling of major presentations or examinations in observance of the holiday. Staff members may request use of personal or vacation days for religious holidays, with the approval of their supervisors. Go back to AboutMore in Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.