Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Athletics Athletics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Athletics menu Athletics Topics Home About UNLV Academics Athletics Campus LIfe Diversity Research close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Breadcrumb UNLV Home Athletics Athletics More than 400 Rebels compete in the NCAA Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference, in 16 sports. Show Your Colors Grab your scarlet and gray and cheer on your favorite athletic team. Are you ready to win with the Rebels? Official Athletic website Buy Tickets Women’s Sports Basketball Basketball Cross Country Cross Country Golf Golf Soccer Soccer Softball Softball Swim & Dive Swim & Dive Tennis Tennis Track & Field Track & Field Volleyball Volleyball Men’s Sports Baseball Baseball Basketball Basketball Football Football Golf Golf Soccer Soccer Swim & Dive Swim & Dive Tennis Tennis Show Support From world-class facilities and cheering fans to generous donations and athletic advisors, we ensure that our student athletes are supported both on and off the field. Athletics Facilities Athletics Facilities UNLV boasts of some of the best collegiate athletic facilities and outdoor locations to bolster our students’ athletic and academic success. Student Athlete Services Student Athlete Services Success off the court is important to us. Our student athletes have achieved a record-setting GPA of 3.09 in the 2018-19 academic year, with 12 teams setting academic records, and one third of our student athletes are on dean’s lists. Donor Support Donor Support Tradition at UNLV is synonymous with athletics. Private support provides our student athletes with opportunities to excel in their sports, in their classes, and in the world. School Spirit and Traditions School Spirit and Traditions We may be young, but we are mighty, and we have  established many traditions in our short history. Whether  kicking off the school year with Premier UNLV or fighting  for the right to paint the Fremont Cannon, our Rebel pride shines through. Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV