Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Opportunities >Study Abroad Study Abroad While Baylor offers a plethora of study abroad opportunities, the following have been very popular with Honors College students: Baylor in Maastricht In cooperation with the Center for European Studies (CES) at Maastricht University in the Netherlands, this program provides a blended curriculum with students learning from both European and Baylor professors. In addition, students are also able to travel to major city centers in Western Europe, such as Madrid, Amsterdam, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Florence. Baylor in Washington D.C. Students combine rigorous coursework with an internship at the nation’s capital thus gaining both academic and professional development. Previously, students have interned for various senators, the FBI, NPR, the Children’s Defense Fund, the Department of Defense, the Holocaust Memorial Museum, and the NAACP. CLICK HERE to read more about Baylor in Washington, D.C. Baylor in Turkey and Greece Baylor in Turkey & Greece is a study-abroad program that offers Baylor students the opportunity to travel to the birthplaces of Western Civilization and Culture. Students will climb to the top of the Acropolis to see the Parthenon in Athens, alongside Mars Hill from which St. Paul once preached to the Greek philosophers. Students will seek wisdom through dialogue with one another in the Athenian agora, as Socrates and Plato did so many centuries ago. Students will run in the original Olympic stadium, travel to the heights of Delphi, and visit the ruins of ancient Troy and Miletus, as a journey across the wine-dark sea of the Aegean. Baylor in Italy Students participating in Baylor in Italy will be immersed in the unique, multi-layered Italian experience. Students will explore the monuments, art, and writings of ancient Rome; students will see firsthand how the Christian church developed in Rome and Italy over the centuries; Students will encounter the beauty of Renaissance Italy; and students will experience the unequaled food and culture of modern Italy. They will spend a week in Rome, a couple of weeks in Viterbo (a medieval city, where George Clooney recently filmed his new show Catch-22), and travel on weekends to beaches and the beautiful hill towns of Umbria. Baylor in St. Andrews Baylor in St. Andrews is well-suited for those interested in the Arts and the Humanities and is especially appropriate for students interested in philosophy and religion and their intersections and manifestations in culture and history. Students take one course taught by a Baylor faculty program director; all other courses will be chosen from St. Andrews’ rigorous undergraduate curriculum. Scholar’s Semester at Oxford The most rigorous of study abroad programs offered at Baylor, the Scholar’s Semester at Oxford offers students an opportunity to study at the world’s most prestigious university under its unique tutoring system. In addition to taking a demanding course load, students have watched Shakespeare at the Globe, punted on the River Isis, visited the home of C.S. Lewis, and explored medieval ruins. Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Getterman Scholars Program Invitation to Excellence Distinguished Scholars Day DSD: Honors College Essay Submission Baylor 2 Programs Scholarships for Current Students Study Abroad Scholarships Student Research Materials Grant Travel Stipend HRC Leadership Scholarship Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give