Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search SMU Ignited Ways to give Ways to give When you give to SMU, you shape people and programs who will foster a better future and invest in Mustangs who will change the world. SMU Ignited donors will further elevate SMU among the preeminent U.S. universities and establish a legacy that will benefit generations to come. We invite you to join us as we make the previously impossible possible in the following ways: On This Page Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Endowment giving Provide support in perpetuity for future faculty, students and programs Named endowment giving opportunities begin at a minimum of $100,000. SMU strongly encourages making a current-use supplemental gift at the time the endowment is created so that your impact on students and faculty starts immediately. (SMU policy is to allow endowment gifts to mature for five years before the University starts to spend proceeds from the investment.) To establish a new endowment fund, please contact the Office of Gift Planning at plannedgiving@smu.edu, or 214-768-1911. Contact Info plannedgiving@smu.edu 214-768-1911 Current-use giving Make an immediate impact on current operations by giving to scholarships, programs and activities. Multiyear pledges or recurring gifts at all giving levels are encouraged. There are many ways to make your gift to SMU. Visit smu.edu/givenow or call 800-768-9996 to make a credit card gift or learn more about mailing checks. Give Now Contact info smu.edu/givenow 800-768-9996 Capital giving Invest in buildings, facilities and equipment that support SMU students, faculty and staff Opportunities are available at all giving levels; naming opportunities for selected projects begin at a minimum of $25,000 (with select limited opportunities available at less than $25,000). To inquire about giving to a capital project, contact the Office of Donor Relations at donorrelations@smu.edu or 214-768-4071. Contact info donorrelations@smu.edu 214-768-4071 Active projects Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg Student Center renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Planned giving Magnify your impact through arrangements that may also have tax and estate benefits By combining your philanthropic giving with tax and other financial gift planning strategies, you can play a critical role in creating an extraordinary future for SMU and the community it serves. To learn more, click the button below or contact the Office of Gift Planning at plannedgiving@smu.edu or 214-768-1911. Plan your gift Contact info plannedgiving@smu.edu 214-768-1911 University-wide initiatives Support enduring priorities that make a huge difference for students and faculty Scholarships provide vital support to SMU’s students and create life-changing opportunities for thousands of future world changers. Learn more. Endowed faculty positions help the University retain and recruit world-class faculty members. Learn more. SCHOOLS AND UNITS Scholarships Endowed faculty positions School and unit giving Direct your support to the area of the University that makes the kind of impact you want to make possible Each of the schools and units maintains a current list of giving priorities on its specific giving page. Gifts of every kind – endowment, current-use, capital, planned – can provide valuable support SCHOOLS AND UNITS Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search