Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services> Facilities> Allocation of University Space - Version 1 Allocation of University Space Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG07.30.01 Title Allocation of University Space Category Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services Sub-category Facilities Authority Chancellor History Contact Provost and Vice Chancellor, Division of Academic and Student Affairs; Assistant Vice Chancellor, Division of Administration & Finance Related Policies Space Allocation Committee (pdf) Space Allocation/Reallocation Committee (SPARC) ( Unit Code of Operations, Brody School of Medicine ) Additional References Campus Space Planning 1. Purpose and Scope All University buildings and land belong to the University as a whole and are subject to assignment and reassignment to meet the priorities and needs of the institution. The Chancellor delegates authority to the University Space Committee (USC) to approve all allocations of existing university space, while maintaining ultimate authority for the allocation of all university resources. In consultation with the impacted unit, assignments are made by the USC only after careful consideration is given to institutional priorities, needs, and all relevant factors. 2. Space Priorities & Principles 2.1 Exceptions to any common understanding(s) may be granted by the Chancellor on advice from the Executive Council. 2.2 Space decisions will be consistent with ECU Tomorrow and UNC Tomorrow and managed for the common good. 2.3 There are competing demands for space which necessitate group consensus. 2.4 Space will be managed under the “One ECU” philosophy which requires that no unit can operate as an independent domain or division. 2.5 New program space analysis must be coordinated with all affected parties and must address logistics, availability, infrastructure, cost, programmatic needs, efficiency, and effectiveness. 2.6 All affected parties should have equal input to space management requests/decisions. 2.7 All space use is subject to annual efficiency evaluation with a possible outcome of a different use being prescribed. 2.8 At the appropriate time and circumstance, some units and/or individuals may be subjected to a “space-lease-productivity” model. 2.9 Athletic facilities and fields are to be included as a component of space. 2.10 Issues regarding the use of space allocated to the BSOM will be addressed by SPARC and Clinical Services. 3. University Space Committee 3.1 Responsibilities 3.1.1 Analyzing the future physical space requirements for East Carolina University. 3.1.2 Providing the Executive Council and the Chancellor with recommendations for land and space procurement, programmatic space assignment, and space re-purposing. 3.1.3 Serving as the organization of record for all space assignments. 3.1.4 Recommending baseline/initial delegations of authority over ECU property regarding space allocation 3.1.5 Develop and publish appropriate process descriptions for making requests to the USC relating to space use 3.2 University Space Committee memberships will include at least one representative from each of the following units: 3.2.1 Athletics 3.2.2 Campus Operations 3.2.3 Division of Academic and Student Affairs 3.2.4 Division of Administration & Finance 3.2.5 Division of the Chancellor 3.2.6 Division of Health Sciences 3.2.7 Division of Research & Graduate Studies 3.2.8 Division of University Advancement 3.2.9 Faculty Senate 3.2.10 Institutional Planning, Assessment and Research 3.2.11 Office of Engagement, Innovation and Economic Development 3.3 University Space Committee functions: 3.3.1Evaluate all requests for programmatic space assignments and make recommendations to the Provost; if warranted the Provost will consult with the ECU Executive Committee. 3.3.2 Perform an analysis for each space request and make recommendations relative to adequacy (too large or too small), consistency with strategic plan, and growth goals of the unit and the university. 3.3.3 Conduct land and facility studies as needed with approval of the Provost. 3.3.4 Establish standards for space allocation to be used to plan and design space for new facilities or for reassignment or for re-purposed space. 3.3.5 Interface with the Vice Chancellor for Administration & Finance relative to land and facility procurement, and long-range facility planning. 3.3.6 Interface with the Vice Chancellor for Administration & Finance and with city and county planners relative to university expansion and the commensurate effects on city infrastructure. 3.3.7 Conduct periodic space utilization studies and recommend consolidation where appropriate to increase utilization rates, improve safety and conserve utilities. 3.3.8 Promulgate all master planning guidance policy for the university and coordinate it with all affected parties. 3.3.9 Coordinate space planning and allocation with SPARC (BSOM), Clinical Services, and the Space Allocation Committee. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier