Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Genetics (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Those beautiful eyes you inherited from your dad are actually a complex science — genetics. Geneticists study the molecular structure and function of genes and their behavior in order to understand how organisms inherit and then pass on characteristics to their offspring. You likely can already see how the concepts of heredity are important in medicine, but they are also very important to modern science and industry in areas such as biotechnology and agriculture. A genetics degree from Clemson is a strong preparation for many different careers. Our students graduate with an excellent foundation for medical, veterinary or pharmacy school. You’ll also be prepared to conduct graduate research in any discipline related to biology, such as bioinformatics, forensic technology or genetic counseling. FAST FACTS There are numerous summer research opportunities available through the National Science Foundation. Clemson and the nearby Greenwood Genetics Center have established a human genetics collaborative. Our department interacts closely with the Institute for Translational Genomics. More than 20 percent of our students are members of the Clemson University Honors College. Clemson partners with Prisma Health to advance health care research. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The first major-specific course required of freshman genetics majors is Careers in Genetics and Biochemistry. This introductory course brings in professionals to aid students in discovering the diversity of career opportunities available from this degree. This course also helps you become aware of professional organizations, ethical issues and the requirements for advanced studies. In the first two years at Clemson, you’ll take various science courses such as general and organic chemistry, biology, physics and mathematics. These will prepare you for upper-level course work that includes molecular biochemistry, molecular and general genetics, comparative genetics and population genetics. Additionally, you’ll be able to tailor your degree to your specific interests by selecting from approved scientific courses such as microbiology, immunology, and human anatomy and physiology. Genetics students spend quite a bit of time in Clemson’s laboratories with our nationally recognized faculty. Our faculty have diverse research interests from alternative fuel to molecular parasitology. You also have a chance to participate in internships and study abroad, as well as join any of Clemson’s hundreds of student organizations. Curriculum Genetics, B.S. Popular Minors Biochemistry Biological Sciences Business Administration Microbiology Modern Languages Psychology Similar Majors Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Microbiology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Outside the classroom, you’ll often find a genetics student in the lab, many times working alongside our nationally recognized faculty whose diverse research interests range from spiders to cancer. You'll also have a chance to participate in internships and study abroad, as well as join any of Clemson’s hundreds of student organizations. RESEARCH Through independent research, you'll learn the latest cutting-edge methodologies in biochemical and genetic research while improving observation and communication skills and working alongside faculty mentors. JOIN Clemson's Biochemistry/ Genetics Club hosts speakers, watches films and discusses current topics related to the fields of biochemistry and genetics. This club is a great way to meet and network with like-minded students, professors and researchers. LABS Take a part-time position, volunteer or earn course credit through research opportunities available in faculty laboratories. Our faculty have diverse research interests such as alternative fuels and hereditary diseases of canines. HONORS More than 20 percent of genetics majors are in the Calhoun Honors College. In 2015, two genetics and biochemistry majors were named Goldwater Scholars, the top national award for undergraduates in science and engineering. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Alpha Epsilon Delta Biochemistry and Genetics Club Institute for Translational Genomics COSMIC AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Research Associate Medical University of South Carolina Technologist Greenwood Genetics Center Lab Technician Clemson University Center for Human Genetics Unit Support Associate Wellstar Kennestone Hospital Microlaboratory Technician Colgate RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Genetics Purdue University M.S. Genetic Counseling University of Michigan M.S. Biomedical Informatics New York University M.S. Forensic Science Virginia Commonwealth University MD Medical University of South Carolina COMMON CAREER AREAS Research Basic Research Applied Research Grant Writing Administration Teaching Elementary Secondary Post-secondary Non-classroom Settings Health Care Medicine Dentistry Optometry Podiatry Pharmacy Chiropracty Veterinary Medicine Genetic Counseling Occupational Therapy Physical Therapy Public Health Other Professional Opportunities Sales and Marketing Technical Writing Scientific Journalism Scientific Illustration Regulatory Affairs Administration and Management Scientific or Technical Recruiting Intellectual Property or Patent Law Bioinformatics Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Genetics (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Microbiology (B.S.)