Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Collegiate Licensing Menu Home Trademark Trademark Policy Logo Guide Logo Sheet Brand Guide Collegiate Multi-Media Rights NCAA Guide Collegiate Licensing Baylor>Collegiate Licensing Collegiate Licensing Courtney Scrivano Associate AD for Marketing & Fan Engagement Office Location Simpson, Suite 265 Mailing Address One Bear Place # 97108 Waco, TX 76798-7108 Office Phone: 254.710.4942 Baylor Brand Guide CLC Website Trademark Policy The Collegiate Licensing Office is responsible for advancing, protecting, and enforcing the proper use of Baylor’s licensed logos and brand marks on products, in promotions and in advertising. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas, Baylor’s mission is to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community. Baylor’s rich heritage has yielded traditions, marks, names and logos that represent the University brand and are protected under the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Baylor University uses approved licensees for the reproduction of their logos, marks and indicia on products that will used in promotions and in advertising. Any individual, organization, or company wishing to use the name or identifying marks of Baylor University must obtain a license. This includes manufacturers or service providers who use Baylor's name or logo on products (including premiums for promotions) or in advertising. No products bearing the marks of Baylor University are exempt from licensing. Any prospective manufacturer who wishes to obtain a license to produce officially licensed Baylor University merchandise must submit a license application through the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). As the University's representative, CLC is responsible for administering the licensing programs, including processing applications, collecting royalties, enforcing trademarks and pursuing new market opportunities for Baylor. General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Home Trademark Trademark Policy Logo Guide Logo Sheet Brand Guide Collegiate Multi-Media Rights NCAA Guide