Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Departments>Mechanical Engineering>Research>Energy Systems Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Dr. Lulin Jiang Dr. Stanley Ling Dr. Stephen McLain Convective Heat Transfer from Realistic Ice Accretion Roughness Ice accretion effects are mitigated during aircraft design using computer codes such as LEWICE. The characterization of convective heat transfer from surfaces with ice roughness is a significant area for improvement of these codes. Funded through a NASA collaborative agreement, the effort focuses on the measurement of convective heat transfer to flows over surfaces with realistic ice roughness properties. The project consists of three primary tasks: 1) measuring the convective enhancement of constant freestream velocity flows over surfaces with realistic ice roughness, 2) measuring the convection heat transfer of flows interacting with the leading edge of an aircraft wing with realistic ice roughness, and 3) measuring the convective enhancement of stagnating flows over surfaces with realistic ice roughness. The project efforts are supported by collaborative activities at the Icing Research Branch at NASA Glenn to measure ice roughness exhibited by airfoils experiencing short-duration icing events. Secondary efforts of the project involve the evaluation of ice roughness properties from three-dimensional laser scans of iced airfoil surfaces created in the Icing Research Tunnel at NASA Glenn. The ultimate goal of the effort is to implement new correlations or advanced approaches for predicting convective heat transfer from realistic ice roughness distributions in current and future ice accretion codes. Dr. Min Pack Dr. Paul Ro Dr. Kenneth Van Treuren Effects of Flow Separation on Low Pressure Gas Turbine Blades Flow separation is becoming an increasing problem in highly loaded turbine blades. A gas turbine suction surface simulator has been developed for the Baylor University low speed wind tunnel. A contoured top wall in the test section enables the pressure distribution to be simulated on flat plate that corresponds to actual separated flow conditions. Techniques to stop separation will be studied as well as the impact of separation on heat transfer (using a steady state gold foil liquid crystal technique). Comparison will be made with the CFD code Fluent. Gas Turbine Impingement Cooling A new experimental facility developed at Baylor University will enable the study of local heat transfer coefficients beneath impinging jets, a technique used to cool gas turbine blades. This research uses the transient liquid crystal technique. In addition, a two-axis hot-wire anemometer traversing system will be used to map the impinging jet flow field interaction and this will be modeled in the CFD code Fluent. Mapping Local Heat Transfer in Heat Exchanger Louvered-Fin Arrays An experimental facility has been developed to model arrays of fins looking at pressure drop and heat transfer with different fin configurations. The experiment uses a transient liquid crystal hue technique coupled with a finite element analysis of the fin to determine the local heat transfer coefficient on the fin surface. Comparisons will be made with water tunnel visualizations and CFD using Fluent. This work is sponsored by Dr. Nicole Okamoto, San Jose State University, and Dr. Ken Van Treuren, Baylor University. Generating & Documenting the Quality of Free Stream Turbulence and its Impact on Heat Transfer Using the Baylor University wind tunnel, active and passive turbulence generation grids will be evaluated with down stream measurements of turbulence made using a two axis-hot-wire anemometer. Particular attention will be given to length scales "designing" the turbulence for specific flow conditions. Mixing and transport processes in turbulent boundary layers A boundary layer can form when a fluid flows above a solid surface. Boundary layer flows can be found in many applications, from the thin layer above a microprocessor which contains a lot of heat produced by the processor to the large scale layer as vast as the planetary boundary layer above the earth surface. This work is to understand the transport and mixing process of irrotational fluid into rotational fluid in turbulent boundary layer. The purpose is to learn how to improve or hinder transport of heat, mass, or momentum into the boundary layer. Dr. Alex Yokochi Our lab is interested in the development of new processes and materials, and their implementation into technologies that enhance the sustainability of our current technological civilization, with a particular emphasis on energy conversion processes or those that generate fundamental needs for people from matter streams that are currently thought of as wastes. For example, the design of large-scale energy storage options through advances in electrochemical engineering, or the development of processes to desalinate salt water using solar thermal processes. One of the current processes in the lab is the conversion of low value hydrocarbons (the ones commonly flared from various facilities) into easy to store and transport liquid hydrocarbons (e.g., fuels or polymer precursors). Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Cyber FAQ Cyber Brochure Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise