Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Athletics and Recreation Breadcrumb Campus Life Athletics and Recreation UCR Athletics Whether you're in-it-to-win-it as a student-athlete, or just playing for the love of the game, you can be part of UCR Athletics. UC Riverside is home to 17 men’s and women’s Division I teams. Each year, more than 300 student athletes enjoy a wide range of competitive sports, bringing pride to our Highlander family and gaining the skills they need to succeed at play and in life. LEARN MORE Related Topics Campus Life Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety About Riverside Health, Fitness, and Adventure at the Student Recreation Center The UCR Student Recreation Center is a central hub for recreational, intramural and club sports on campus. Work out in our extensive gym, play pick-up basketball, take a group fitness class or go on an adventure with our Outdoor Excursions program. Our 80,000 square foot recreational facility is the place for fun and fitness at UCR. SRC access is included in UCR students’ tuition. Others may purchase quarterly memberships or day passes for admission. Memberships More Information Aquatics Make A Splash Cooking Well More Information Activity Classes Schedule FitWell Get Fit Competitive Sports Learn More Youth Programs Sign Up Open Recreation Schedule Outdoor Excursions Adventure Starts Here Outdoor Gear Currently Closed Ropes Program Team Challenge UCR Athletic Teams Men's Teams Women's Teams Baseball Basketball Basketball Cross Country Cross Country Golf Golf Soccer Soccer Softball Tennis Tennis Track & Field Track & Field Volleyball Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel