Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Recreation Menu Search TTU University Recreation AQUATICS We offer a variety of features and amenities year-round from: Offerings: Leisure Pool Come float the lazy river. Sunbathing available on our recently rennovated three-tier wet deck. We also offer an eight lane pool for lap swimming. Soak in our 25 person spa! Aquatic Center 50-meter end-to-end length 25-yard lap lanes at varying depths Our shallow end contians: a basketball hoop, climbing wall and is popular for group fitness classes! UREC Aquatics Facilities The tabs below offer more details about our facilities and other relevant information regarding UREC Aquatics. Aquatic CenterLeisure PoolRentalsMembership & Passes Aquatic Center The Aquatic Center at Texas Tech University Recreation allows the department to maintain an open pool facility year-round. The facility is now entirely indoors and is covered by one of the largest air-supported structures in the world, newly replaced in the summer of 2012. The facility boasts a 50-meter end-to-end length, as well as standard 25-yard lap lanes at varying depths. The large shallow end of the pool contains a basketball hoop, climbing wall and is a popular spot for group fitness classes. Summer Operations During the summer, the Aquatic Center is not available for open swim. This space is used exclusively for instruction-based classes. Facilities & Features Lazy River Wet Deck Spa Sunbathing on the deck Deep Well Splash Pad - Operational during family hours Innertubes and mats for the Lazy River are available. Reminder, lifejackets and user inflatables must be US Coast Guard approved Food & Beverage Policy On a restricted basis, Texas Tech University Recreation allows patrons to bring their own food and beverages into our facilities. As our guest, you have three options for consuming food and beverage at our aquatic facilities. You may: 1. Bring your own food and beverages within the restrictions listed below. 2. While the outdoor Leisure Pool is open, utilize the on-site concessionaire, Sam's Poolside. 3. Use the vending machines, which are located inside the Rec Center on the 2nd floor. NOTE: This policy covers public swim hours only. Private rentals will not have access to Sam's Poolside after regular hours, will still need to follow the policies outlined below. No alcohol or glass containers are allowed. Beverages include: Non-flavored/non-carbonated water in sealed, plastic bottles is preferred. However, other liquids (ice tea, coffee, soda) will be allowed. Sealed, single-serving juice boxes or pouches. Formula/baby food. Items necessary for medical purposes. Bags and coolers are permitted in the facility and are subject to inspection by UREC staff. You Can Rent the Leisure Pool for Your Special Occasion! We have our Cove and Stage areas available for rental use during our regular operational hours. The Cove package is offered in a 2-hour block with a maximum of 25 attendees*. ($250) The Stage package is offered in a 2-hour time block with a maximum of 50 attendees*. ($350) *Attendees is for all guests who are a part of your rental (swimmers & non-swimmers). To book your Cove or Stage rental today, click here! Can I rent the entire facility? Yes, this option is only available after hours. Please fill out our rental request online form to start the process! Interested in renting space in the Aquatic Center? Please fill out our rental request online form to start the process! Can I get a membership or guest/day pass? Summer Memberships are available! Please vist our membership page or stop by the Membership Office: Monday - Friday from 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Guest/Day Passes Guest/Day Passes will be sold to all eligible individuals (Check our policies page for eligibility) Admission will be charged for all individuals entering the facility. If a member needs to bring in more than 4 guests, please contact the Main Office (806-742-3351) at least one day in advance to make arrangements. Guest/Day Passes Eligible Individuals Price/day Adults (17+) $10 Children (4-16) $5 Children (3 and under) Free Aquatic Center Family Hours: Tuesdays | 4:00PM - 7:30PM Thursdays | 4:00PM - 7:30PM Fridays | 4:00PM - 7:30PM Saturdays | 10:00AM - 2:00PM Sundays | 12:00PM - 7:00PM For all hours, please navigate to our hours page. Questions and Comments If you have any questions or comments about the Leisure Pool or Aquatic Center, please fill our contact form, or call us at 806-742-1339, and we will respond as soon as we can. Policies For a complete listing of facility policies, please click here. University Recreation Address Texas Tech University, Box 42151, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3351 Email urec@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 27, 2022 1:54 PM University Recreation Hours Programs University Recreation Back Aquatics Fitness and Wellness Sport Programs Outdoor Pursuits Summer Youth Programs Memberships Facility Information University Recreation Back Aquatic Facilities Facility Rental Information Student Rec Center West Rec Turf Field Complex Parking Parking During Basketball Games Rentals/Reservations Employment About Us University Recreation About Us Back Professional Staff University Recreation Mission and Vision Policies Giving and Scholarships Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index