Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Faculty New Faculty New Faculty Information and FAQs Houston Visitor's Guide New Faculty Checklist Teaching Research Work-Life Balance Professional Development Contact Information For questions regarding the new faculty onboarding process, please email fed@uh.edu. More Information Click here for additional resources for faculty. New Faculty Welcome to the University of Houston! We are delighted that you have chosen to join the Cougar community as a Powerhouse Faculty Member. We are excited about the experience, energy, spirit, and the particular strengths that you will bring to our teaching, research, and service activities. You will be joining faculty members that are leaders in their fields and that regularly make things happen — in the lab, in society, and around the world. In addition, UH faculty are simultaneously making things happen in every classroom, working closely with each student to open up new worlds and new possibilities. We have planned New Faculty Orientation event on the third Tuesday of August to ensure that you are in attendance, Register for orientation today. The goal of new faculty orientation (NFO) is to orient you to UH's mission and share important information and resources for faculty. NFO is one of the many ways UH invests in your success at the University of Houston. Links to websites are listed below. Please explore the orientation information and then register as soon as possible for the NFO session on the third Tuesday in August. Again, welcome! Faculty Benefits and Resources Human Resources Benefits & Retirement Parking and Transportation Benefits and Resources at UH For more information on the benefits and resources available to UH faculty, visit uh.edu/provost/faculty or https://uh.edu/provost/faculty/current/fed/. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies