Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Criminal Justice PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Criminal Justice PhD Apply Request More Info Criminal Justice PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Criminal Justice PhD Lead the criminal justice field in academia, private and governmental research agencies with the Doctor of Philosophy in Criminal Justice in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This nationally recognized program is known for its output of impactful research that helps policymakers and practitioners solve some of the world’s most pressing problems. As a Criminal Justice PhD student, you will be a part of a community of curious, driven individuals with a passion for making the world a better and more just place. The full-time doctoral program is designed for students who have backgrounds in counseling, economics, geography, history, political science, psychology, social work, sociology and urban studies, among others. Students can form expertise in an area of specialization within the criminal justice field through advanced interdisciplinary research. Throughout the program, you can engage directly with community-based organizations and criminal justice agencies, working on real-world problems such as gun violence and substance abuse. Programs and research initiatives are led by a diverse, multidisciplinary and active faculty, renowned in their field locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. Learn more about Department of Criminal Justice faculty, and explore their research areas (pdf). Students pursuing their PhD in Criminal Justice study and conduct research in a wide array of subjects within the criminal justice field, including court processes, criminal justice policymaking, criminal law, criminological theory, issues in policing and organized crime. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have seven years to complete their PhD, and are expected to fulfill requirements on a full-time basis. Courses are offered at Temple’s Main Campus. The 48-credit Criminal Justice PhD curriculum is comprised of core courses, electives, a publishable research paper, two comprehensive examinations on criminal justice and theory, and a dissertation and defense. The following core courses are required. Advanced Methods and Issues in Criminal Justice Research Advanced Statistical Issues in Criminal Justice Data Decision-Making in Criminal Justice Law and Social Order Research Methods in Criminal Justice Statistical Issues and Analysis of Criminal Justice Data Theories of Crime and Deviance Learn more about Criminal Justice PhD requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Criminal Justice MA Decision Neuroscience PhD Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Psychology PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2020–2021 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Criminal Justice PhD, contact the following staff member. Jenise Ly is the graduate coordinator in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-9028 Email: jenise.ly@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Criminal Justice Department. Cathy Rosen is the chair of the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1089 Email: crosen@temple.edu Jeffrey Ward is the graduate chair in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-5267 Email: jeffrey.ward@temple.edu Joseph DelMastro is the program administrator in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1376 Email: joseph.delmastro@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Criminal Justice PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You will meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Criminal Justice PhD students. The Criminal Justice Graduate Student Association (CJGSA) represents all graduate students in Temple's Department of Criminal Justice, which includes PhD students, master’s students and 4+1 students. The association promotes communication between faculty and graduate students and encourages participation in a variety of academic and professional opportunities. Additionally, the CJGSA invites critical thinkers to share their justice-related ideas and experiences with Temple University and Philadelphia each spring. The Temple University Criminal Justice Society provides students the opportunity to explore career opportunities within the criminal justice field through group trips, informational sessions, guest speakers, career fairs and more. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Students in the Criminal Justice PhD program have the unique opportunity to complete courses and pursue research opportunities at Temple’s Rome campus. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CJ-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Criminal Justice PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info