Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Continuing Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Courses General Information Registration Information Travel, Parking, and Accommodations Find Out About Future Courses Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Continuing Education Join us to continue your educational experience and advance your career. In the rapidly changing world of dental medicine, the need to stay current is more important than ever. The Continuing Education Program at the College of Dental Medicine offers a wide range of learning opportunities that focus on the latest scientific and technological advances, with an emphasis on practical application. We look forward to helping you reach new levels in your professional career. We offer: 1. Practical, evidence-based continuing education courses for dentists, hygienists, assistants, lab techs, and healthcare professionals. 2. Training updates on the latest dental technology advancements 3. Oral health education for the general public 4. Coaching/leadership seminars Learn More CE Courses General Information Registration Information Travel, Parking and Accomodations Find Out About Future Courses As a result of COVID-19, our in-person courses are currently on pause for the safety and well-being of the Columbia community and campus visitors. We look forward to welcoming guests back to campus once it is safe to do so. Meanwhile we look forward to your participation in our LIVE VIRTUAL sessions, with interactive Q&A and chat opportunities. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top