Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students Apply Now Daniel Rivin Lead Software Engineer at Bungie Cohort: 3 Current position: Lead Software Engineer at Bungie Games shipped: Destiny 2, Disney Infinity, Club Penguin, StarCraft II, StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty, StarCraft II: Heart of the Swarm Q&A with Daniel How did you first become interested in a career in gaming? I remember the moment clearly, though I could really be dating myself by divulging… Playing Kings Quest V (among other Sierra games) in high school and thinking how cool a career would be in crafting these amazing products. At the time, I wasn’t sure what the path was to get there, but with an undergrad degree in CS and the Guildhall coming along, my dream eventually came true. What is the most interesting or enjoyable thing that you have gotten to do in your career? I really like that I was able to work on a highly successful franchise that I played many years before I got into the industry. I worked on StarCraft II for over 6 years and am proud to have my name attached to such an amazing product. Why did you choose to get your education from the Guildhall? For me, the idea of getting my very own gaming laptop was enough, but the secondary promise of a career in gaming had me sold. I knew it was worth it from the moment I stepped on campus the first day, but my parents knew it once I received several offer letters during my last term. How did the Guildhall prepare you for your career in gaming? By giving me the real tools I needed to succeed. It sounds like a canned response, but by working on real gaming projects and doing real coding, I had the confidence to perform in the “real world”. The more theoretical education I received in undergrad was certainly not wasted, a solid foundation in CS is still very important, but it’s more difficult to make that jump from there. What impact has the Guildhall had on your life? The Guildhall changed my life and my career certainly for the better. I wanted to be in gaming, but really had no idea how to get my foot in the door. All job postings at game companies required experience in game development, but how do you get experience without a job at a game company? Such was my dilemma, and the Guildhall solved it nicely for me! What advice would you offer for current Guildhall students? You already made a great decision to attend the Guildhall. Put your heart and soul into your work and others will take notice. The time goes by very quickly; don’t squander even a minute of it! Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x