Skip to main content Academics Academics Departments Advising Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Caruth Institute for Engineering Education Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security Hunt Institute for Engineering and Humanity Hart Center for Engineering Leadership AT&T Center for Virtualization Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources Connect with Us About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory Support Lyle Job Opportunities Get in Touch Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Multidisciplinary Programs Advising Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Our curriculum was created to provide the best and broadest development for future engineers who will deal with the biggest issues of our time. Because engineers face constantly evolving challenges, our traditional engineering courses are combined with new offerings, engaging students throughout their education. Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Faculty and students at Lyle conduct research in a wide range of areas of engineering and applied science funded by government agencies, foundations and private companies. In addition, the Lyle School supports research through internal research seed funding. Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Caruth Institute for Engineering Education Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security Hunt Institute for Engineering and Humanity Hart Center for Engineering Leadership AT&T Center for Virtualization We're committed to your success, and offer many resources that will help you thrive upon graduation. Be sure to take advantage of all SMU and Lyle has to offer through our Centers & Institutes. Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate Your SMU Lyle experience doesn't end on graduation day. Stay connected with the Lyle School of Engineering through these links and resources that we have provided to all Lyle Alumni. To stay up-to-date on all Lyle research, news and events, join our 'Latest at Lyle' alumni email by clicking the button below and submitting the form. Lyle Alumni Email List About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Strategic Plan Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory Support Lyle Job Opportunities Get in Touch The SMU Lyle School of Engineering is committed to developing the new American engineer, one prepared to excel and lead in creating new economic opportunities while meeting the most difficult challenges facing society. ☰ Make a difference in the world through engineering Innovation through hands-on experiences and research. Explore Majors Previous Next pause play hide show Changing the Way People Think About Engineers Companies looking for the next generation of leaders in engineering look to SMU Lyle with good reason. At the Lyle School, our goal is to engage your natural curiosity, to find ways to let you roll up your sleeves and experience the art and science of engineering problem solving. Apply Visit Learn More Lyle School of Engineering recognized with ASEE Bronze award for diversity and inclusion The American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) Diversity Recognition Program recognizes engineering colleges that make significant, measurable progress in increasing the diversity, inclusion, and degree attainment outcomes of their programs. The bronze level recognition is the highest level ASEE currently has for this honor. Explore a department CEE Civil and Environmental Engineering CS Computer Science ECE Electrical and Computer Engineering ME Mechanical Engineering OREM Operations Research and Engineering Management The Latest at Lyle ARA and SMU announce microrobotics collaboration Dr. MinJun Kim, the principal investigator of SMU’s Biological Actuation, Sensing, and Transport Laboratory (BAST Lab), along with members of his team will be collaborating with ARA to further advance microrobotics technology for real world applications. Learn More Conversation with Civic Leader Bobby B. Lyle Though Dr. Bobby B. Lyle wasn't born in Dallas, he has played a significant role in shaping the city into what it is today. Read More Jung-Chih Chiao elected Fellow of American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering J.-C. Chiao, the Mary and Richard Templeton Centennial Chair and professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at Lyle, has been elected a fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE). Learn More Overwhelming numbers of uninsured dialysis patients may have a systemic solution Screening protocols to determine who qualifies for “compassionate dialysis” in hospitals with high numbers of uninsured patients are driving an unintended consequence, an SMU analysis has found. Learn More Finding her 'yes' Meet Hannah Clark '23, a Lyle mechanical engineering major and NASA intern. Clark never dreamed NASA would be in her future and now she’s completing her second stint with the space agency. Read More Paul Krueger to serve as Dean ad interim of the Lyle School of Engineering Professor Krueger will begin his duties as interim dean on June 1, and will serve in this capacity until a new permanent Dean has been appointed. Read More More News Lyle Strategic Plan Learn More Centers & Institutes Caruth Institute for Engineering Education Empowering U.S. high school graduates with enthusiasm and knowledge to pursue the engineering careers required to compete in a global economy. Learn More Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security Advancing the science, policy, application and education of cyber security through basic and problem-driven, interdisciplinary research. Learn More Hunt Institute for Engineering & Humanity A national and international hub partnering with business leaders, academia, NGOs and government to develop solutions for local and global challenges. Learn More Hart Center for Engineering Leadership At the Hart Center, we pair an elite technical education with exceptional leadership and professional development skills to produce world-changing engineers. Learn More Undergraduate students who receive financial aid Internships Research grants Student job seekers employed at graduation Women undergraduate students School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus