Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Sacramento Home Connect Chapters California Sacramento California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego The Sacramento Chapter has over 400 alumni, parents, and friends and includes Sacramento and the surrounding counties. The chapter was launched in the summer of 2018 and enjoys gathering for game watches, community service events, and more. If you have any ideas you'd like to share for specific events or if you'd like to become more involved in the chapter, please reach out to us! 436 Alumni Parents & Friends Social Leaders Contact Us Events Follow Us Sacramento Chapter Facebook Page Sacramento Chapter Instagram Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Cameron Cullen ’20 Lives in: Sacramento, California Major: Political Science Favorite BC Memory: Waking up my roommates in our Mod at 4am to get a front row spot at the College Game Day before a night game against Clemson. Why I got involved: I wanted to help build the sense of community I had at BC with the newer chapter here in Sacramento. Letting former and future Eagles alike know that they always have a home here. I love Boston College and connecting with fellow BC alumni in California! What are your local favorites in Sacramento?: Urban Roots Brewery is my favorite spot in Midtown for drinks and BBQ. But, I love hiking and love to travel to Berryessa to hike the Blue Ridge or hiking down Mt. Tamalpais to catch some surf at Stinson Beach. Fun Fact: I ran the NYC Marathon my senior year at BC . I am still dreaming of running up Heartbreak Hill one day. Jill Korkutis ’19 Lives in: Midtown Sacramento Major: Nursing Occupation: Registered Nurse Favorite BC Memory: College GameDay and Senior Week in the Mods. Why I got involved: I thought it would be a great way to explore my new city and connect with BC alumni in the area. What are your local favorites in Sacramento?: Urban Roots is a great local brewery and is not too far from Gunther’s ice cream. Sacramento has a Natural Foods Co-op that my roommates and I love. And Capitol Park is an awesome place to spend the day, whether you’re reading, playing Spikeball, or having a picnic. Fun Fact: I took up rollerblading during quarantine (and so far remain uninjured). Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Taylor Mooney '17 Contact: taylor.mooney@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok