Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Educational Opportunity Program Main Navigation EOP Admissions Summer Bridge Contact Us IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR SPRING 2022 APPLICANTS Application Deadline for CSU application in Cal State Apply was August 31, 2021. Application Deadline for EOP was September 15, 2021. Deadline for submission of EOP Letters of Recommendations for SPRING 2022 in Cal State Apply was September 22, 2021 . We strongly encourage applicants to submit the letters of recommendation by August 31, 2021 . Recommenders - Please feel free to call or email the Cal State Apply Customer Service contact information listed below for any questions and/or concerns in submitting the Recommendation Form Cal State Apply Customer Service Contact Information: Phone: 857 304 2087 Email: CalStateApply@liaisoncas.com EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM (EOP) EOP would like to celebrate our 2021 EOP graduates. Congratulations ! Check out our EOP graduate slideshow. EOP Graduate Slideshow WHAT IS EOP? For 50 years Cal State Fullerton has collaborated with the State of California to provide financial and academic support to students through the Educational Opportunity Program (EOP). Each year, EOP admits a new class of up to 500 individuals—first time freshman and transfer students. Each of the participants enters the university with limited financial resources, but the desire to overcome all obstacles. Most importantly, however, every new participant understands that the highest achievement comes as a result of strong partnerships. Through your partnership with EOP, you will be equipped with the academic and personal tools to realize your educational goals. CSU, Fullerton admits students to EOP, whose families are challenged by economic barriers and who need admissions and/or counseling services to succeed in college. EOP provides access to higher education for those students who demonstrate potential and who, without EOP support, may be unable to earn a college degree. EOP at CSU, Fullerton offers pre-admission counseling, admission assistance, referrals for tutorial learning, career guidance, financial aid advisement, and other student services. This site is maintained by Educational Opportunity Program. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact sas@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.