Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Registrar's Office Student Affairs Academic Regulations Curriculum Student Organizations Law School Books Commencement Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Current Students Academic Curriculum ACADEMIC CURRICULUM Memphis Law offers both a full-time day program and a part-time day program. The part-time program is for a limited number of students whose other responsibilities make full-time study difficult. Our curriculum is designed to challenge students and prepare them for the practice of law. The curriculum reflects a commitment to traditional legal education with the emphasis on fundamental lawyering skills and core areas of knowledge. Memphis Law operates on the semester system and requires 90 semester hours for the J.D. degree. A full-time student is required to enroll in at least 12 hours each semester. Students in the full-time program normally graduate in three years. Summer classes are sometimes available and students can graduate after five semesters and two summer sessions of full-time study. Part-time students normally graduate in four or four-and-one-half years (including summer semesters). Graduation requirements for those students enrolled in the part-time program are the same as for those students enrolled in the full-time program. A part-time student is required to enroll in at least 8 hours, but no more than 11 hours, each semester. Graduation requirements are set forth in the Academic Regulations. The current Academic Regulations are available here. The Academic Regulations are subject to change. CLICK HERE FOR THE COURSE CATALOG. Learning Outcomes Memphis Law has adopted the following desired learning outcomes. These learning outcomes reflect the knowledge, skills, and values that the faculty believes are essential to the practice of law. In addition to learning outcomes, the faculty has adopted specific performance criteria for each learning outcome, which reflect the observable actions that will demonstrate achievement of the learning outcome. Learning Outcome 1: Graduates will demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the law and the American legal system. Learning Outcome 2: Graduates will demonstrate competency in legal analysis and legal reasoning. Learning Outcome 3: Graduates will demonstrate competency in legal problem solving. Learning Outcome 4: Graduates will demonstrate competence in effective and efficient research. Learning Outcome 5: Graduates will communicate effectively in the legal context. Learning Outcome 6: Graduates will recognize and understand the ethical and professional responsibilities of lawyers to clients and the legal system. Learning Outcome 7: Graduates will demonstrate competency in those other professional skills and values necessary for legal practice. Learning Outcome 8: Graduates will recognize the value of community and public service. Transferred Credit Credit for law school work competed at law schools other than at The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law will be credited toward fulfilling graduation requirements only after individual consideration by the Dean. No credit, however, will be given for work completed in a United States Law School which is not ABA approved. Advanced standing will be granted only for work done after the student has completed a Baccalaureate degree. To be eligible for transfer, credit earned in each course considered for transfer credit must be at least equal to the overall grade point average required for graduation from the University of Memphis, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. Determination of Credit Hours for Coursework Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.