Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Graduate Admissions MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science MS Health Promotion MS Exercise Nutrition MS Physical Education Teacher Education MS Environmental Nutrition MS Nutrition Science MS Clinical Nutrition About Admissions MS & DI Combined Program Resources Students Preceptors PhD Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics AboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home College of Health Sciences Graduate MS & DI Student Resources Student Resources Prospective Students We invite you to learn more about the programs we offer in the Clinical Nutrition Master's and Internship programs. Before you begin exploring our site, please note the following requirements for becoming a registered dietitian. The Credentialing Process to Becoming a Registered Dietitian: Completion of a minimum of a bachelor's degree at a U.S. regionally accredited university or college and DPD course work approved the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND). Completion of an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program at a healthcare facility, community agency, or a food service corporation, or combined with undergraduate or graduate students. The University of Memphis Clinical Nutrition Master's Program /Dietetic Internship is an ACEND accredited supervised practice program. Pass a national examination administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR). Complete 75 hours continuing professional educational requirements every 5 years to maintain registration. Current Students Congratulations on your acceptance to our program. We welcome you to our Tiger family and there is a lot to know before you begin classes, so check out these resources to make sure you are prepared. The Graduate School Clinical Nutrition Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships While we attempt to fund all Clinical Nutrition students with a Graduate Assistantship (GA), it is not always possible. A GA is not guaranteed for all students. Students should consult with Tracy Bruen for more information. If a GA is provided, it will require that a student work approximately 20 hours each week of the semester (except for university breaks) and it will pay a monthly stipend for the first academic year of study (fall and spring semesters only: payments typically made September-April). The stipend amount varies depending on GA location but generally ranges from $6500 to $8000 for the academic year (approximately $10-12 per hour). The GA does not include any tuition or fee payment but does waive the out-of-state tuition/fee cost, if applicable. Therefore, students will be required to pay the in-state tuition/fee rate during the time in which they are funded through a GA. In nearly all cases, the GA is limited to only the first year of the program (fall and spring). However, students will continue to receive the in-state tuition/fee rate during the summer term between years one and two. During the final semester (fall semester of year two), students will no longer receive a GA and will be expected to pay the out-of-state tuition/fee rate, assuming they do not qualify for the in-state rate based on residency. In rare cases, a GA may be available during the second year. Students will have an option to rank their interest in the various GA sites and may be required to interview for selected sites. Students should inquire with Tracy Bruen for more information regarding GAs. Clinical Nutrition Careers & Intern Handbook Students graduating with an MS degree are well-prepared to seek advanced degrees or begin employment within the following areas.* hospitals nutrition support long term care facilities diabetes centers administration clinical nutrition management food systems management school food service corporations WIC public health wellness general pediatrics nutrition faculty medical sales Note: Prospective interns should seek the guidance of the program director with regards to needed pre-requisite courses for graduate school admission. For additional information on career options in nutrition and dietetics, visit the Student Center at the AND website. Clinical Nutrition Intern Handbook Intern Review Criteria Student Testimonials "The combined MS/DI program at the University of Memphis allowed me the opportunity to explore many realms of dietetics and find my passion! I love that the program gave me the opportunity to set up rotations in areas that I was interested in. The directors and coordinators cared about our interests and that was very evident throughout the duration of the program." - Geordan Stapleton '18 "The University of Memphis professors, preceptors, and staff truly invest in each intern and design the internship to highlight each person's interests and goals. My experiences not only prepared be to be a well-rounded dietitian but a leader within the healthcare community." - Lisa Evanoff '19 “This program gave me incredible mentors and friends that continually give me the confidence and encouragement to be the best dietitian I can be. Whether that is when seeing patients, educating people on social media, or getting involved with the Memphis Association of Nutrition and Dietetics (MAND), I know that I can always go to them with questions and support.” - Hannah Cox Peters '18 "The Clinical Nutrition program provided me with all the tools I needed to launch my career as a registered dietitian. The connections the UofM had with the hospitals in Memphis meant I was able to have first-class clinical rotation experiences in such areas as pediatrics, nutrition support, dialysis and oncology. The professors and staff knew me by name and were extremely supportive throughout the entire process!" - Brittany Lubeck '18 "One thing that really makes the UofM dietetic internship stand out is the opportunity to work as a graduate assistant in your first year as an intern. I was able to gain so many valuable experiences and learn so much from my GA position that really helped prepare me for rotations and my career as a dietitian!" - Tara Toll '20 "The University of Memphis Master of Science/Dietetic Internship program strongly prepared me for the Registered Dietitian (RD) exam, as well as clinical and foodservice dietetics experience. I owe my entire career to this program, and definitely recommend it to those looking to make a confident difference in the dietetics society!" - Kaitlyn Philipps '15 "I cannot express enough how much I loved my time in the dietetic internship program at University of Memphis. From the friendships I made, to the mentors I gained, and especially the knowledge I acquired through the classes as well as the rotations - I would never have gotten where I am today without this program. I recommend this program to anyone who is striving for success in the dietetic field!" - Katie Hinton '16 "I really enjoyed how the MS/DI program was a well-rounded, fast-paced curriculum which taught me how to work efficiently and effectively. Since the City of Memphis is located in the heart of a medical district, I felt well-equipped once I graduated as I was exposed to a handful of different types of hospital systems and clinics. The program was a blast, faculty/staff truly want the best for you and your career and Memphis is a fun place to live!" - Christina Ralston '16 "The UofM Graduate Dietetic Internship allowed me the flexibility to create the most memorable and challenging rotations! I will never forget the sacrifices our clinical coordinator made for us! The experiences I gained as an intern, plus the amazing connections I made in Memphis has launched my career forward in such little time!" - Samaria Grandberry '19 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.