Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Current Students Student Profiles Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Student Profiles John Pamplin, PhD in Epidemiology "With the number of U.S. deaths for people of color from police actions, I realized I couldn’t remain silent on the public health issues affecting minorities. I want to be able to my research and say, 'Look, these issues are real. And here is the proof.'” Alejandro Vanegas, Executive MS "It took me a long time, but I finally realize there’s another way to impact health outside of becoming a physician." Juliana Bennington, MPH in Health Policy and Management "I had long been interested in the health gap between pediatric care and the onset of adult health issues." Brennan Rhodes-Bratton, DrPH in Sociomedical Sciences "There are so many complexities of real public health work, and being at the Mailman School has taught me to think outside the box." Close Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers