Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Diversity and Inclusion We all belong here Together, we strive to create an environment that values diversity, promotes an inclusive culture, and establishes a profound sense of belonging for each member of our community. 2020-21 Community Update Explore how far we've come and what's next in our journey toward inclusive excellence. Read the update Where one begins does not determine where one ends. If you are here, you belong here." Sherri Ann Charleston, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer One of the nation’s leading experts in diversity and higher education, Sherri leads Harvard’s Office for Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging as the University’s chief diversity and inclusion officer. Learn more about Sherri “Harvard must address diversity, inclusion, and belonging as an institution. We have made necessary and important progress, but there is much to be done if we hope to address the many dimensions of racism—and the effects they have on our community and our society.” Lawrence S. Bacow, President of Harvard University “Diversity and inclusion are essential values embedded in the recruitment, development, and engagement of our employees who enable the University’s teaching and research work.” Katie Lapp Executive vice president “Our diversity has enriched every facet of the work that we do at Harvard, and will continue to strengthen our community in the years to come.” Alan M. Garber Provost and chief academic officer The Office for Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging The Office for Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging works with stakeholders and partners across the University to guide Harvard’s culture toward inclusive excellence. Learn more about the office Subscribe for the latest news and events Progress in action Explore the ways that we’re turning goals and ideas into actions and results. Resources and support Use these resources to better understand the options available to you. Find out where we can help Community events Ongoing events for students, staff, faculty, and our local and global community. Join the conversation Innovating inclusion The Culture Lab’s grants, programs, and initiatives encourage experimentation and innovation to build a sense of belonging and empowerment for everyone at Harvard. Explore the Culture Lab Learn more Changemakers Harvard Culture Lab’s Changemakers conversation series explores new ideas, innovations, and inspirations as we build a culture of inclusion in higher education and beyond. Explore more conversations Happening around Harvard Find more events around diversity and inclusion June 02, 2022 12:00pm – 1:00pm EST Online Only When Gender Matters in Negotiation June 02, 2022 12:00pm – 1:00pm EST Online Only When Gender Matters in Negotiation June 04, 2022 11:00am – 12:00pm EST In-person Take Your Place/Toma Tu Lugar June 04, 2022 11:00am – 12:00pm EST In-person Take Your Place/Toma Tu Lugar Our focus on racial equity Unequal: a series on race and inequality across the United States Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Inequality in America Initiative The latest news Explore the Harvard Gazette’s ongoing coverage of diversity and inclusion, on and off campus. A Conversation between Bill Lee and CDIO Sherri Ann Charleston College students discuss need to ensure diversity on campus Slavery probe: Harvard’s ties inseparable from rise University leadership accepts recommendations of report with $100 million pledge. Trending stories Scrutinizing narratives behind nation’s monuments Slavery probe: Harvard’s ties inseparable from rise How U.S. can confront myth of its democracy, according to Eddie Glaude Diversifying our case protagonists How is Harvard Business School doing a year later? Read more from the Business School Designing for disability justice On the need to take a variety of human bodies into account. View Article Graduate School of Design studio investigates ‘120 years of environmental injustice’ in Oklahoma From an airplane or satellite, Picher, Oklahoma, appears as an anomaly in the endless green grid of agricultural land at the center of the United States. … Read more on The Harvard Gazette Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00