COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic Section Menu Schedule an Appointment Services and Fees Location and Parking Dental Hygiene Clinic Home Dental Hygiene Department Faculty / Staff Directory College of Health Professions Home conditions_of_treatment Dental Hygiene Clinic at Wichita State University Quality, affordable dental hygiene care Appointment Scheduling Update: We are currently scheduling established and new patients. Please call 316-978-3603 to schedule an appointment. You may see some changes when it is time for your next appointment. These changes have been made to help protect our patients, students, instructors and staff. • Please wear a mask into the building, during your screening and before treatment. • Prior to your visit we will call to do symptom pre-screening. • If you begin to have cold or flu symptoms any time before your appointment, please call to reschedule your appointment. • Upon arrival, we ask patients to remain in their car and call 316-978-3603. We will provide instructions about entering the building for the check-in process. • Check in process: COVID screening questions and temperature checks are completed on patients, students, instructors and staff. We request that only appointed patients enter the clinic, unless you need assistance. The Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic at Wichita State offers a wide range of low-cost preventative, therapeutic and educational services. Anyone can make an appointment in our clinic, regardless of association with Wichita State. Services are provided by dental hygiene students under the direct supervision of licensed dental hygiene instructors and dentists. The clinic provides hands-on applied learning for dental hygiene students while making quality, affordable oral health services available to our community. View DH Clinic Brochure Our clinic is Kansas’ largest dental hygiene clinic for student education. The 24-chair clinic is open to the public and serves people of all ages. Your participation is a vital part of our students’ education and helps them gain the necessary clinical experience to complete professional curriculum requirements, graduate from our program and pursue a license to practice. Call 316-978-3603 to schedule your appointment. Read our Conditions of Treatment and Patient Rights and Responsibilities. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©