Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Housing University Housing right arrow down arrow Information For right arrow down arrow Future Students Parents & Families Current Residents Contract Renewal for 2022-2023 Graduate Students Co-ops Conferences Camps Summer Interns Job Seekers Apply right arrow down arrow Freshmen & New Students Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Communications Your Student Receives from Housing Room Selection Terms & Conditions Rates right arrow down arrow 2022-2023 Cohort 2021-2022 Cohort 2020-2021 Cohort 2019-2020 Meal Plan Applying FAQs Summer Semester Housing 2022 Residential Experience right arrow down arrow Core Values Communities right arrow down arrow Bellevue Gardens Calhoun Hall Campus Recreation Center Hall Dabney Hall Daniels Hall Marian Spencer Hall Morgens Hall Schneider Hall Scioto Hall Siddall Hall Stratford Heights The Deacon The Eden Turner Hall University Edge University Park Apartments U Square 101 East Corry Siddall to Calhoun Transition Food Roommates Living-Learning Communities right arrow down arrow LLC FAQ Daily Life Room Decorating Contest Get Involved right arrow down arrow RHA/Hall Council Employment right arrow down arrow Resident Advisors Move-In/Move-Out Graduate & Family right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Application Instructions Responding to a Graduate Housing Offer Graduate Housing Timeline Communities right arrow down arrow The Eden Senator Place right arrow down arrow Senator Place Relocations Private Listings right arrow down arrow Private Listing Request Short Term Resources right arrow down arrow Bellevue Gardens Departure Instructions Graduate Housing Departure Instructions Contact Us Daily Living right arrow down arrow Bellevue Gardens The Eden Grad Units Senator Place Grad Housing Winter Break 2021 Housing Search right arrow down arrow Search Tools Rental Scams Roommate Search Tips Leasing Tips Monthly Rates Frequently Asked Questions Resources right arrow down arrow Housing Application Guide To University Living Room Information Safety Transportation Vaccinations Policies Co-ops Contact Us Quarantine & Isolation Home » Campus Life » University Housing » Residential Experience » Communities Set Navigation title in component Core Values Communities Bellevue Gardens Calhoun Hall Campus Recreation Center Hall Dabney Hall Daniels Hall Marian Spencer Hall Morgens Hall Schneider Hall Scioto Hall Siddall Hall Stratford Heights The Deacon The Eden Turner Hall University Edge University Park Apartments U Square 101 East Corry Siddall to Calhoun Transition Food Roommates Living-Learning Communities LLC FAQ Daily Life Room Decorating Contest Get Involved RHA/Hall Council Employment Resident Advisors Move-In/Move-Out Communities Find Your Place Our residential communities are as diverse as the people who live in them. We offer everything from traditional halls, to multi-bedroom suites, and apartment-style living for every personality and budget. You can live with friends or meet new ones and learn from those who are a few years ahead of you. We offer Living-Learning Communities as well as themed floors that allow you the opportunity to live with people who share similar interests. Traditional housing helps you build a network across all fields to carry with you in your future career. Each of our communities has their own personality and style to provide students with a comfortable living space for growing and learning while at UC. We also offer Gender-Inclusive Housing options for students to find a residence hall space that best meets their needs. Calhoun Hall right arrow down arrow Calhoun will be unavailable pending completion of renovation; expected reopening spring 2023 Located in the heart of Clifton, Calhoun Hall is known for its diverse and engaging atmosphere. Its community areas and study floor make it the perfect place to meet neighbors, cultivate friendships, and get involved within the UC community! Campus Recreation Center Hall right arrow down arrow Campus Rec Center is perfect for students that desire productivity and focus in their day to day life. It is located on MainStreet connected to the Rec Center and CenterCourt dining hall, making it the perfect environment for motivation. Dabney Hall right arrow down arrow Do you enjoy being outdoors? Biking? Maybe just lounging in the sun? Living at Dabney Hall, you can whenever you want (weather-permitting, of course). Daniels Hall right arrow down arrow Daniels Hall most likely matches what comes to mind when you think of a college residence hall. Its traditional-style structure establishes a welcoming and very social atmosphere on every floor. When walking through its halls, you will see doors open for visitors, smiling faces and lots of decorations! Marian Spencer Hall right arrow down arrow Marian Spencer Hall is UC’s newest addition to University Housing and is a wonderful place for students to live. Its unique architecture allows for suite-style rooms, so students can be comfortable in the privacy of their own living space. It is home to multiple living learning and themed communities. Morgens Hall right arrow down arrow Morgens Hall is the "twin" of Scioto Hall. Here, many students participate in Living and Learning Communities. Its state-of-the-art study halls make learning enjoyable and help to cultivate curious minds. Morgens Hall has won awards, not just for style but also sustainability and eco-friendly efficiency. Schneider Hall right arrow down arrow Schneider Hall is in a wonderful part of eastern main campus along Jefferson Avenue, and is close to multiple dining centers, shops, and restaurants. The spacious suite-style units also include a kitchenette and living room, perfect to hang out in after a long day of work and fun! Scioto Hall right arrow down arrow Scioto Hall is Morgens Hall’s twin. This apartment community's floor-to-ceiling windows provide a breathtaking view. Features include a study lounge, service center, and social lounge that Scioto residents share with the neighboring residence hall, Marian Spencer. Siddall Hall right arrow down arrow Siddall Hall is very similar in architecture, style, and location to Calhoun hall. Students that live here enjoy taking part in many communal activities throughout the year, like their famous ping pong tournaments in the first-floor lounge or the occasional late-night ice-cream party. Stratford Heights right arrow down arrow Stratford Heights is a series of Tudor-style buildings that come together to create a diverse neighborhood community. The cozy and charming ambiance helps students to feel at home and comfortable, especially if UC is a new environment for them. The Deacon right arrow down arrow The Deacon, one of UC’s newest off-campus housing communities, offers a unique experience for its residents. Its distinctive amenities, including a movie theater, arcade and lounge room give students options for study breaks, while spacious apartment units provide them with a comfortable and modern place to study, focus, and unwind. The Eden right arrow down arrow Newly constructed apartments just three blocks from campus offer a number of floor plans, and amenities ideal for building community among residents. The Eden sits at the northeast corner of Eden and University Avenues, convenient to campus dining centers, Short Vine dining and shopping, including Kroger. Off-street garage parking is available. Turner Hall right arrow down arrow Turner Hall is a hub for passion, curiosity, and intellect. The students that live here make the world their classroom by constantly seeing innovation in everything they do. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accessible accommodations are available in this building. University Edge right arrow down arrow University Edge apartments are a near-campus residency option for UC students. Located in the center of this community is a sprawling courtyard perfect for studying, hanging with friends, and enjoying the great outdoors. Other amenities included are a 24-hour gym, community room, study areas and more. University Park Apartments right arrow down arrow University Park Apartments (UPA) offer students an off-campus lifestyle with all the benefits of on-campus living. Resting above many restaurants and shops, there is always something to do or eat, and somewhere to go! U Square Apartments right arrow down arrow University Square sits above multiple dining and entertainment establishments on Calhoun Street, one of the most popular areas off campus. Its location contributes to a hustling and bustling atmosphere where students never run out of fun things to do! 101 East Corry right arrow down arrow 101 East Corry is an apartment building right next to campus, surrounded by shops, restaurants, grocery stores, and anything else you could ever need! Its location is convenient and accessible for students with only a five-minute walk to UC’s campus. Resident Education & Development Housing & Food Services 513-556-6461 Marian Spencer Hall 2911 Scioto Lane Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Resident Education & Development Housing & Food Services 513-556-6461 Marian Spencer Hall 2911 Scioto Lane Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top