Sign In Search Cart Search for: 0 Items for $0.00 Explore Subjects Books Browse By Subject By Title By Series Award Winning Titles Authors and Editors Current Authors Prospective Authors Journals Browse By Title By Subject Mathematics at DUP Journals fulfilled by DUP Journal Services Authors and Editors Submission Guidelines Ethics Statement for Journals Rights and Permissions Share Your Article Support for Journal Editors Author Resources from University Presses Journal Community Websites FAQ Conferences Prospective Journals DUP as a Publishing Partner Testimonials Start the Conversation Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Browse American Dialect Society American Society for Ethnohistory Association for Middle East Women's Studies GL/Q Caucus for the Modern Languages Labor and Working-Class History Association Population Association of America Society for French Historical Studies Society for Novel Studies Society Members and Officers How to Join a DUP-Affiliated Society About Your Account Support for Society Officers Conferences Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are Leadership Staff What We Do Blog News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Working at DUP Conferences Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Explore Subjects Books Browse Authors and Editors Journals Browse Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Societies Browse Society Members and Officers Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are What We Do News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Conferences Home / Abject Performances Abject Performances Aesthetic Strategies in Latino Cultural Production Share Dissident Acts More about this series Read the Introduction Book Pages: 232 Illustrations: 69 illustrations, including 10 Published: May 2018 Author: Leticia Alvarado Subjects Gender and Sexuality > Feminism and Women’s Studies, Theater and Performance > Performance Art, Chicanx and Latinx Studies In Abject Performances Leticia Alvarado draws out the irreverent, disruptive aesthetic strategies used by Latino artists and cultural producers who shun standards of respectability that are typically used to conjure concrete minority identities. In place of works imbued with pride, redemption, or celebration, artists such as Ana Mendieta, Nao Bustamante, and the Chicano art collective known as Asco employ negative affects—shame, disgust, and unbelonging—to capture experiences that lie at the edge of the mainstream, inspirational Latino-centered social justice struggles. Drawing from a diverse expressive archive that ranges from performance art to performative testimonies of personal faith-based subjection, Alvarado illuminates modes of community formation and social critique defined by a refusal of identitarian coherence that nonetheless coalesce into Latino affiliation and possibility. Praise "In writing this, I am thinking of contemporary figures of abjection—the asylum seeker, the victim of domestic abuse and gang violence, the parent and child violently separated at the US border. Abject Performances does not make such figures more legible, but rather encourages readers towards being with illegibility so as to create a condition for thinking through alternatives to citizenship, to accept the unknown and unknowable as a viable, yet confounding aesthetic, and a necessary, though unsustainable politic." — Eddie Gamboa, Women & Performance "Abject Performances presents a dynamic, fascinating, and novel approach to understanding the role of abjection in contestatory articulations of Latino identity. From the esoteric to the popular, the sacred to the profane, Leticia Alvarado weaves together a narrative that convincingly positions the abject as an entirely distinct way of producing latinidad through diverse cultural products." — Alexandra Gonzenbach Perkins, Journal of American Studies "Alvarado’s book usefully brings aesthetics and affect theory to bear upon not only what Latinidad means, but also how its possibilities can shift. . . . Alvarado rigorously theorizes a strand of Latinx affective and aesthetic engagement that names a feeling we already have and a perspective we need to embrace." — Renee Hudson, ASAP/Journal "Abject Performances is an ambitious text. The breadth of theoretical frameworks is especially impressive given the depth of critical analysis that complements them. . . . Viewing the ways in which aesthetic theory meets performance and media studies, Latino studies, and queer theory as an emerging flux continues necessary conversations in these fields." — Lacie Rae B. Cunningham, Aztlán "In subject matter and style, Abject Performances is a dense study that will interest ethnic studies scholars versed in the specialized language used in performance studies, visual culture, cultural studies, queer theory, and critical theory. Alvarado convincingly demonstrates, through a unique and wide-ranging expressive archive, that an aesthetics of abjection reveals modes of collective belonging and social critique that refuse identitarian coherence and facilitate affiliative possibilities distinct from homogenizing cultural nationalism and liberal feminism." — Camilla Stevens, Modern Drama "Alvarado brings together artistic, academic, and activist ways of being and doing in this world, opening spaces to imagine brighter futures. . . . Against the myth of wholeness and completion, Alvarado offers a final Muñozian gesture: circling back to the urgency of imagining futurity, Abject Performances rehearses a path towards a more sensual world not-yet-here." — Leticia Robles-Moreno, TDR: The Drama Review “Abject Performances makes foundational contributions and interventions to the fields of Latina/o studies and performance studies. [Alvarado] intricately deploys the work of cultural producers as abject, thus disrupting prominently circulated articulations and embodiments of Latinidad.” — Micaela Díaz-Sánchez, Latino Studies "Abject Performances is admirable in its interdisciplinary ambitions." — Sarah J. Townsend, Latin American Theater Review “Abject Performances lingers on moments of discord, rupture, and disunity among Latinx cultural producers and picks at the wounds to find what political possibilities might emerge in them.... I am fortified and inspired that such work is now possible....” — Jillian Hernandez, American Quarterly “Alvarado’s interdisciplinary approach (visual and performative arts, television, and religious testimonies) and serious engagement with racialization, queer theory, affect, and belonging position the texts studied within a larger historical framework that connects aesthetics to the politics of our lives and to the formation of our subjectivities.” — Frances R. Aparicio, Criticism “In this provocative text, Leticia Alvarado offers us abjection as an aesthetic strategy for thinking about embodied performances that bear the weight of the fraught communal failures of latinidad. Her eclectic archive of formal and informal performances of world-making practices draw her readers toward those improper subjects of Latino cultural production that expose the perverse pleasures of refusing both civic incorporation and identitarian regimes to linger in the difficult promise of racialized otherness.” — Juana María Rodríguez, author of Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings “Abject Performances counters inspirational, mainstream representations of Latinos that give them a constrained place in U.S. minoritarian politics. Leticia Alvarado understands abjection as resistance: a wily, uncooperative ethos within the heroic narrative of Latino inclusion and assimilation. She sets her critical eye not on aspirational models, but on artists and performances that insist on the confusion of boundaries. The result is a brilliant contribution to Latino Studies.” — José A. Quiroga, author of Tropics of Desire: Interventions from Queer Latino America Buy Paperback Cloth Availability: In stock Please read our FAQ's to learn more about Pre-Orders Price: $25.95 Add to cart Buy the e-book: Amazon Kindle Apple iBooks Barnes & Noble nook Google Play Kobo Open Access Request a desk or exam copy Information Author/Editor Bios Table of Contents Rights Awards Additional Information Author/Editor Bios Back to Top Leticia Alvarado is Assistant Professor of American Studies at Brown University. Table of Contents Back to Top Acknowledgments ix Introduction. Sublime Abjection 1 1. Other Desires: Ana Mendieta's Abject Imaginings 25 2. Phantom Assholes: Asco's Affective Vortex 57 3. Of Betties Decorous and Abject: Ugly Betty's America la fea and Nao Bustamante's America la bella 89 4. Arriving at Apostasy: Performative Testimonies of Ambivalent Belonging 131 Conclusion. Abject Embodiment 161 Notes 167 Bibliography 193 Index 209 RightsBack to Top Sales/Territorial Rights: World Rights and licensing Awards Back to Top Honorable Mention, 2019 Latino/a Section of the Latin American Studies Association Outstanding Book Award Honorable Mention, 2019 United States Latina and Latino and Chicana and Chicano Literary and Cultural Studies, awarded by the Modern Language Association Additional InformationBack to Top Paper ISBN: 978-0-8223-7078-9 / Cloth ISBN: 978-0-8223-7063-5 Publicity material Bk Cover Image Full Related Items Also Viewed Also Purchased Also Viewed The Queer Art of Failure Confidence Culture Complaint! Living a Feminist Life On Being Included Sex Scandal Dear Science and Other Stories Queer Phenomenology The Revolution Will Not Be Funded Staying with the Trouble Also Purchased Chicano and Chicana Art This anthology provides an overview of the history and theory of Chicano/a art from the 1960s to the present, emphasizing the debates and vocabularies that... Cruel Optimism A relation of cruel optimism exists when something you desire is actually an obstacle to your flourishing. Offering bold new ways of conceiving the present... In the Wake In this original and trenchant work, Christina Sharpe interrogates literary, visual, cinematic, and quotidian representations of Black life that comprise... The Sense of Brown The Sense of Brown is José Esteban Muñoz's treatise on brownness and being as well as his most direct address to queer Latinx studies.... Duke University Press 905 W. Main St. Ste 18-B Durham, NC 27701 USA Phone (888) 651-0122 International +1 (919) 688-5134 Email orders@dukeupress.edu Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Careers View Open Positions Working at Duke University Press Join Our Mailing List Recent Catalogs Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Pintrest Instagram © 2022 Duke University Press. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility Legal Privacy Top