Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 16, 2020 Texas Tech University Community, As you know, we have taken unprecedented steps to protect the safety and health of our community. Because of the public health risks posed by COVID-19, our life at the University as we know it is changing. Last week, we canceled classes through March 27 and announced the move to online course delivery on March 30. Today, I'm announcing policy modifications to allow for remote work for as many Texas Tech employees as possible. Tomorrow we will post specific information of the plan as we are still finalizing all of the details of the work policy that will take effect on Wednesday, March 18. But at this time we want to share the following information: By the end of the day on Tuesday, March 17 and until further notice, all employees whose roles allow it may, with the approval of their supervisor, begin to work from home. For more detail, please reference Phase III from Chancellor Tedd Mitchell's memo issued earlier today. Some jobs will require employees to be present on campus. The University remains committed to the health and safety of all those who work on campus during this time and we will continue to adopt recommended safety standards from the CDC. Supervisors and chairs will clarify who is expected to work from home or on campus based on the needs and requirements of each department. With the approval of your supervisor and completion of the necessary paperwork, you may take home all appropriate equipment and materials you may need to complete your work from home. HR and IT will be available to provide support as we transition to a new way of working throughout this situation. Specific contact information will be provided tomorrow. The full policy and applicable forms will be available tomorrow morning on the HR website. Our decisions and behaviors will do much to determine the severity of this situation. The best way to prevent illness is to avoid exposure to the virus, so I urge us all to practice social distancing in addition to washing your hands regularly, keeping common areas clean, and using hand-sanitizer when necessary. Please take a moment to follow Texas Tech on Twitter and visit go.ttu.edu/coronavirus for the latest information and updates. Sincerely, Lawrence Schovanec President Texas Tech University Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityAug 4, 2020 9:43 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index