Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Practitioner Fellows Application deadline: Thursday, March 31st, 2022, for spring 2023. CSREA invites artists, media makers, and writers external to Brown University whose work focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to apply to be a Practitioner Fellow for the spring 2023 academic term. This program is a virtual spring semester fellowship. The terms of the program may be subject to change. THE FELLOWSHIP Fellows will have access to Brown University resources and are invited to contribute to the academic community. There will be opportunities to present work-in-progress in a campus-wide public lecture or performance. Projects should focus at least in part on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts. Fellows are expected to cover their own expenses (including health benefits) for the duration of their appointment. Fellowship Details: Awardees will receive a $10,000 stipend for a semester-long fellowship and have access to up to $1,500 each in research/project funds Attendance at the virtual Practitioner Fellows Workshop (number of sessions to be determined) is required Participation at an in-person Practitioner Fellows Capstone where participants will present their work (travel and lodging provided) is required Fellows are expected to participate in social community-building activities sponsored by the Center (e.g. Wind Down Wednesdays, lectures, events, etc.) QUALIFICATIONS For artists, media makers, and writers external to Brown University Previous CSREA Practitioner Fellows are not eligible Previous Artists-in-Residence/Practitioner Fellows at our partner institutions are not eligible: Center for the Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration at Yale University Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture at the University of Chicago Center for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity at Stanford University APPLICATION PROCESS Applicants must complete this application form and submit all requested supplementary documents via Interfolio to be fully considered. The application will open the first week of January. Submissions via email will not be accepted. Applicants must submit the following: A cover letter discussing what the applicant hopes to achieve during the fellowship period and why being affiliated with CSREA and Brown would be especially helpful in accomplishing the goal A current curriculum vitae (CV) or résumé A sample of scholarly or creative work (maximum 35 pages) Submission guide for non-written works: Image files: embed or hyperlink to examples of your work in addition to a written component explaining the nature of the work(s) submitted, not to exceed 35 pages total Audio or video files: hyperlink to or upload files using the “additional file” option, that are 8-10 minutes in duration cumulatively (either a single link/file can be up to 10 minutes long or multiple submitted links/files can be submitted, but should not exceed 10 minutes total), in addition to a written component explaining the nature of the works submitted, not to exceed 35 pages total A one-page project abstract (500-800 words) A more detailed project proposal (1,000-2,000 words): The proposal should outline the project that the applicant will pursue during the term of the fellowship Two confidential letters of recommendation endorsing the applicant and the proposed project Applications will be reviewed by the CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB). Other relevant faculty within or external to Brown may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. DEADLINE Applications for the spring 2023 term are due on Thursday, March 31st, 2022 by 5:00 p.m. EST. Awardees will be notified in May 2022. The first convening of the selected cohort of fellows will be in January 2023. Questions? Consult the Frequently Asked Questions page. For further inquiries, please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. APPLICATION FORM Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top