Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of Institutional Research Interactive Reports External Reports About OIR Submit a Report Request Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home Office of Institutional Research Interactive Reports Public Reports Student Applications & Admissions Application Trends - summarizes a five year trend of applications, admits, and enrollments as of census. Student Enrollment Student Enrollment Trends- Student headcount or full-time equivalent (FTE) by student level over time. Student Demographics- Student headcount by gender, race, age, first generation status, and Pell status. Student Origins - Student headcount by residency, top states, top Tennessee counties, top high schools, and top previous institutions. Program Enrollment - Enrollment in undergraduate and graduate programs, by College/School and student class level. Enrollment Projections (Excel) - University-level enrollment projections, with the ability to modify future retention and new student parameters to evaluate the impact on future enrollment growth. Student Success Retention Rates - One-year retention rates for first-time, full-time freshmen and transfer students. Graduation Rates - Four-year and six-year graduation rates for cohorts of first-time, full-time freshmen. Degrees Awarded - Degrees awarded by Degree level over time. Post-Graduation Student Follow-up - Earnings, debt, time-to-degree, and continuing postsecondary education of students who have graduated. Employees Employee Headcount - Faculty & staff employee headcount by EEO Skill Classification category, over time. Full Time Faculty - Full Time Faculty by College/School, Tenure Status, Rank, Gender, and Race. Restricted Access Reports (Faculty and Staff Only) Student Applications & Admissions Daily Application Activity - summarizes year-over-year application activity for the upcoming semester, based on the number of days until semester start date. Student Enrollment Census Enrollment - Student Enrollment, Course Enrollment (can be used for course offering planning), Student Origins, Student demographics. This internal dashboard can be filtered by a number of student and institutional variables. Daily Enrollment Tracker - A daily update of enrollment for the upcoming term for which registration is open, and provides comparative enrollment as of the same day last year. Teaching Activity - See trends in courses and students taught by faculty, course capacity, low-enrollment courses. Student Success Retention & Graduation Rates - Retention and graduation rates for first time freshmen, first-time transfers, and first-time graduate students, including demographics, course retention, graduation rate gaps, and the ability to filter by a number of internal variables related to student and institutional characteristics. Grade Distributions - Grades earned in courses and course success rates, with the ability to filter down to the course level. Degrees Awarded - Degrees awarded by Degree level over time, and the ability to filter by a number of internal variables related to student and institutional characteristics. Employees Faculty & Staff Trends - Headcount and FTE for Faculty and Staff over time, by demographic characteristics. Teaching Activity - Full time faculty teaching loads, data for new faculty hire justifications, instructional faculty by tenure status and rank, course capacity, instructor load detail. Academic Unit and Special Reports Academic Unit Key Performance Indicators - extensive list of data points important to the institution’s on-going sustainability. Can view at College, Department, and program (where applicable) level. Schedule Planning Resources - OIR dashboards to help with course schedule planning, including historical enrollment trends by courses and majors, UMDegree Audit courses, and enrollment projections for the upcoming semester by major and by course. UM Global - Online programs and courses, online enrollment and credit hours, characteristics of online students, online student retention and graduation rates, online course success rates, online degrees awarded. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/7/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.