Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EDPR Menu About EDPR Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate EDPR minor M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions ApplyInternational StudentsGraduate AssistantshipsGraduate Catalog View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Frequently Asked Questions Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research EDPR Quantitative Certificate Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Methods (GCQM) This 15-credit-hour certificate program is constructed to provide students with formal training in quantitative research methods and data analysis in the social sciences and prepare them for a variety of employment opportunities in private and public sectors. The certificate program will be open to all graduate students at The University of Memphis and graduate students from other institutions. Students will receive a certificate in quantitative methods upon completion of the requirements. Graduates of the certificate program will be prepared to: Design a wide range of research studies and program evaluations, both observational and experimental in nature Build or validate measures for social and psychological constructs based on psychometric theory and models Apply appropriate statistical analyses to various data sources for descriptive and inferential purposes Use computer software to implement a wide range of univariate and multivariate statistical routines Translate statistical evidence into usable information for stakeholders Certificate Coordinators Dr. Yonghong Jade Xu Dr. Leigh Harrell-Williams Successful applicants must: visit the Graduate School application page to apply. have a minimum GPA of 3.0 have completed EDPR 7521 and EDPR 7/8541 on campus (or equivalent to be approved by program--for transfer students only) with a grade of B or above Following a review, your application will be either approved or returned to you for further discussion and revision. If you have any questions about the application process, please contact Dr. Yonghong Jade Xu or Dr. Leigh Harrell-Williams Apply Now > Certificate Course Requirements Prerequisites: EDPR 7/8541 or equivalent and EDPR 7521 or equivalent. The certificate requires 15 semester hours of credit. Below are the required and elective courses available to students: Required core courses (6 credits): EDPR 7/8542: Statistical Methods Applied to Education II EDPR 7/8511: Introduction to Measurement and Evaluation Electives (9 credits are selected from): EDPR 8549: Multivariate Methods in Education EDPR 8544: Application of Multiple Regression EDPR 7/8531: Computer as a Research Tool EDPR 7/8543: Research Design and Analysis EDPR 7/8554: Nonparametric Statistics If a student feels that a course outside of EDPR is appropriate as an elective, the student can complete the Petition for Elective form to be reviewed and approved by the certificate coordinators. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.