Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Webinar: How do I become a more resilient nurse? May 26, 2022 UC College of Nursing faculty combat the problems of burnout and compassion fatigue among nurses by discussing resilience and how to cultivate it. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Two hospital stints give rise to passion for UC nursing grad May 13, 2022 UC College of Nursing's David Moskowitz found his passion for nursing after two stints at Cincinnati Children's. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Webinar: How do I become a more resilient nurse? May 26, 2022 UC College of Nursing faculty combat the problems of burnout and compassion fatigue among nurses by discussing resilience and how to cultivate it. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Two hospital stints give rise to passion for UC nursing grad May 13, 2022 UC College of Nursing's David Moskowitz found his passion for nursing after two stints at Cincinnati Children's. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School You make a difference: UC alumnae raise the bar for diabetes care May 5, 2022 UC College of Nursing alumnae working at UC Medical Center have worked to provide support to diabetes patients. New UC nursing grad joins mom in Children's OR April 29, 2022 New University of Cincinnati nursing graduate Maddie Bell and mother, Cary Bell, '19, will work together in the Cincinnati Children's operating room. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. Why I chose to major in nursing at UC April 27, 2022 UC College of Nursing student Parker Rabe shares why he chose to major in nursing at UC and the opportunities UC offers. Integrative health graduate certificate program approved April 25, 2022 Graduate certificate program in integrative health approved UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. WVXU: A new University of Cincinnati study traces the impact of... April 21, 2022 A study by a UC College of Nursing researcher examines the impact of mass incarceration on young people and their families. Samantha Boch, PhD, worked as a nurse in several correctional systems in Ohio, which sparked an interest in the role mass incarceration of young people has on them and their families. What my class days are like as a UC nursing student April 20, 2022 UC College of Nursing student Gabrielle Iordache shares her weekly class schedule as a sophomore in the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program and what she learns. UC College of Nursing doctoral students to showcase research April 20, 2022 Event: April 25, 2022 12:00 PM UC College of Nursing will host its second Doctoral Student Project Showcase on April 25. University of Cincinnati College of Nursing hosts National... April 18, 2022 Event: May 20, 2022 12:35 PM For the third time, the University of Cincinnati College of Nursing will host the national American Association of Nurse Anesthesiology (AANA) Spinal/Epidural with Obstetrics Essentials Workshop, one of the organization’s most highly recommended workshops. The event, offered in a new hybrid format, creates opportunities for hands-on practice on clinically applicable techniques. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top