Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Veterans VA Education Benefits VA Education Benefits Using your Benefits Ineligible Programs Current Students Yellow Ribbon Program Financial Aid VA Payments Admission to SMU Admission to SMU Undergraduate Admission Transfer and Transition Services Student Services Student Services Veterans Support & Services Student Life Maguire Center Student Resources Safety And Security FAQs Academic Services Academic Services Academic Advising Academic Policies ALEC Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies (DASS) SALUTE Health & Wellness Health & Wellness Counseling Services Dr. Bob Smith Health Center Sexual Misconduct Substance Abuse FAQs Resources Resources On Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Veterans in Business Club Campus Map FAQs Get Connected SMU Pro ☰ Enrollment Services Veterans Admission to SMU Admission to SMU Southern Methodist University welcomes applications for admission from current or veteran service members and their family members. Each academic school at SMU has their own application requirements. Below is some general information about applying to SMU. If you have specific questions about the admissions process or a degree program, please contact the academic school’s admissions office directly to ensure you are getting the most up-to-date information. Is there a separate application process for students who have served in the United States Armed Forces? No. All students are required to apply for either undergraduate or graduate admission using the same application process as other applicants. What are your admission requirements? All prospective students are required to meet the admission criteria of the University regardless of your status as an active duty servicemember or veteran. Visit Undergraduate Admissions or the specific graduate Admissions website for more information. Do I need to pay my application fee? For prospective undergraduate students, we automatically waive the $60 application fee for ALL U.S. military veteran applicants. Please complete the SMU Transfer Application at admission.smu.edu/apply/. Within the application, mark Yes to "Are you a current or former member of the U.S. Armed Forces?" and email one of the following documents to ugadmission@smu.edu: Valid military ID DD214 Driver's license indicating veteran designation Prospective graduate students should reach out to the specific graduate school for their policy on application fees. What is the deadline for submitting my application? Application deadlines fluctuate depending on whether you are a first year, transfer, or graduate application. Visit Undergraduate Admissions or the specific graduate Admissions website for more information. How do I arrange for a campus tour? Daily visits for undergraduate applicants are offered Monday through Friday and include an admission information session, a campus tour, and an information session in your academic college. Visit SMU has the information you need to register. Do you accept military credit? Undergraduate veteran and active duty students may petition for their military experience to meet University/ Common Curriculum requirements. Please talk to your academic advisor for these procedures. Military transcripts must be submitted to the Veteran Services Office in order to use your benefits at SMU. What type of housing am I eligible for at SMU? Students under the age of 20 are required to live on campus in SMU Housing. SMU has a limited amount of housing available for students 20 or over. Residence Life and Student Housing is available to assist you with housing application questions and other housing information. How much is tuition at SMU? Tuition, fees, and other expenses are found on the Bursar’s Office website. Who can I contact with additional questions? If you have questions about applying for undergraduate admission, please visit Undergraduate Admissions or contact them at 1-800-323-0672 or 214-768-2058. If you have questions about applying for graduate admission, please visit the specific graduate school’s website: Cox School of Business, DataScience@SMU, Dedman College, Dedman School of Law, The Guildhall, Lyle School of Engineering, Meadows School of the Arts, Perkins School of Theology, Simmons School of Education & Human Development. Admission to SMU Undergraduate Admission Transfer and Transition Services Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share