Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ How to Get Involved Lay Advisory Board Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award Nominations and Criteria The Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award is presented annually to a layperson in the United States who exemplifies an exceptional commitment of service to Christ through faith and action in the church, community and the world. First awarded in 1993, the award has been presented to more than 45 distinguished laypersons throughout the years, and honors Judge Woodrow B. Seals (1917-1990), a distinguished layperson who helped establish the Perkins Theological School for the Laity in 1974. The award receives support from the Howard-Holbert Endowment Fund. Nominations must include documentation representing the three areas listing above, as well as: A one- to four-page document including a biographical narrative and examples of nominee’s activities showing commitment to Christian service in the church, community and world Three letters of recommendation from clergy and lay leadership of nominee’s congregation and/or denomination, as well as supplemental letters of support from officials in other church or community organizations Contact information for primary sponsor who will serve as the contact for Perkins School of Theology The person submitting the nomination should compile all nomination materials and mail or email as one package. Selection is made by a committee of the Perkins Lay Advisory Board. Nominations remain active for three years including the year of submission. Deadline Nominations should be submitted by December 17, 2021 to: The Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award Committee c/o Associate Dean for External Programs Perkins School of Theology PO Box 750133 Dallas, TX 75275-0133 Or by email to theoexternalprograms@smu.edu More Information about the Seals Award and Nominations Criteria (PDF) Read about the 2020 Seals Laity Award Recipients List of all Seals Laity Award Recipients Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award Recipients An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share