Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Student Counseling Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home About Us Staff Mission & Vision Diversity and Culture Contact Information Student Eligibility & Access History and Accreditation Services Getting Started Confidentiality Counseling Group Counseling and Workshops Group Counseling Guidelines Group & Workshop Offerings Orientation for Therapy Group Participants Individual Counseling Crisis Counseling Career Counseling Sport Psychology Veterinary Medicine Disordered Eating Services Career Services Career Resources Career Counseling Mind-Body Biofeedback What to Expect When Using Biofeedback Biofeedback Tips Mind-Body Spa Outreach & Presentations Consultations Presentations RESPOND Question, Persuade and Refer (QPR) Resources TAO Self-Help Let's Talk Information for Parents/Faculty/Staff Mental Health Topics Grief & Loss Men's Health and Wellness Community Referrals Online Resources Diversity and Culture Resources Mental Health Resources Brochures and Videos Forms and Policies FAQ Training APA Doctoral Internship Training Philosophy, Aim and Setting Services Provided Training Activities Special Emphasis Areas Admissions, Support and Initial Placement Data Supervisors and Interns About Iowa State and Ames Graduate Assistantship Doctoral Practicum Post-Doctoral Fellowship In Crisis? Home Resources TAO Self-Help TAO Self-Help <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> We are excited to introduce a new and FREE online self-help tool for the Iowa State University community! You will have instant access to tools that will help you navigate your mental wellbeing. Through a partnership with Student Government all of the resources from TAO is available to YOU for FREE either online or on-the-go with your mobile device. Sign Up for your free account today! What is TAO? TAO (Therapy Assistance Online) is an online library of engaging, interactive programs that help you learn life skills and bounce back from disappointments and stumbling blocks. As you watch their videos and engage with the interactive components, you’ll gain the necessary knowledge and self-awareness to achieve your specific goals. TAO offers: Educational modules Assessments Practice tools and logs A mindfulness library What’s the time commitment? The new TAO allows you to use TAO anywhere, anytime. Choose from one-time sessions, short courses (i.e., 10 minutes per day for a week or two), or long courses (i.e., content spread out over several weeks). If you have 10 minutes, you can complete a session right now! What topics does TAO address? TAO can be useful in addressing and improving a variety of concerns. Here are just a few: Coping in the COVID-19 Pandemic Adjusting to change Relationships Depression Anxiety Social Anxiety Phobias Recovery and Sobriety Communication Healing after a break-up Body Acceptance Imposter Syndrome Perfectionism Test Anxiety Burnout Grief and loss Building resilience Loneliness Conflict and anger management Performance anxiety Flow Alcohol or drug use Sleep … and so much more! Who is eligible for TAO Self-Help? All students, faculty and staff with an Iowa State University email address are eligible for TAO Self-Help. How do I get started? First-time users: create a TAO account by visiting the signup page (no enrollment key needed). Go to the TAO login portal and enter your email. Click ‘Next.’ You’ll see a popup that says ‘We are redirecting you to your institution’s login page.’ Click ‘Continue.’ Authenticate with your ISU credentials. Not sure what topic to start with? Try one of these short courses to get started. Simply click on the registration link and register with your @iastate.edu email address: Managing Test Anxiety Build Resilience Worry Less Feel good, Fast! TAO is Sponsored by Iowa State Student Government Student Counseling Services Student Counseling Services Iowa State University 2505 Union Drive, 3rd Floor Ames, IA 50011 515-294-5056 phone 515-294-5205 fax Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...