Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Health Services Administration, BS Ensure the Highest Quality of Care in the Healthcare System Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Health Mgmt & Informatics 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain Hands-On Experience and Solve Real-World Problems in Healthcare The BS in Health Services Administration program at UCF prepares you with the knowledge and skills needed to ensure that healthcare facilities and health systems run smoothly so that patients receive the highest quality of care. You’ll learn how to run efficient healthcare organizations and impact community health outcomes, including community diabetes, vaccinations, nutrition and much more. Your coursework will cover several broad areas such as healthcare systems, healthcare finance, health law ethics, patient experience, human resources and healthcare strategies. Our program’s dedicated faculty and staff focus on your success and the completion of your degree. The health services administration program may be completed fully online or on campus, ensuring convenience and flexibility that allows you to balance work, school and life. Upon graduation, you’ll be well prepared to work in various healthcare sectors, including hospitals, home health, long-term care, insurance industry, public health, pharmaceutical, physician practices and other healthcare related business opportunities. Plus, you have the ability to earn several certifications through both American College of Healthcare Executives and Health Financial Management Association upon working in the healthcare sector, up to and including the Fellow designation. Highlights 70 percent of UCF health services administration graduates start a career in their field within six months of graduation. The B.S. in Health Sciences Administration is a certified program through The Association of University Programs in Health Administration (AUPHA). Employment in healthcare occupations is projected to grow 15 percent from 2019 to 2029. The national average salary for healthcare administrators is $61,633. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview U.S. Health Care Systems Explore the economics, social and political aspects of the healthcare system in the United States. Community Health Learn about historical, sociocultural and economic factors in community health; current community health problems; interphase of governmental, voluntary and private agencies. Health Law and Ethics Gain an overview of the legal and ethical issues faced by healthcare consumers, practitioners, administrators and healthcare facilities. View All Health Services Administration Courses You'll Take Health Services Administration Skills You'll Learn Develop your communication and critical thinking skills in order to solve real-world problems that you’ll face in the healthcare environment. Network with current healthcare professionals in the classroom and through student organizations that you may participate in. Gain career advice and opportunities through the faculty and career services available at UCF. Get hands-on experience in the field through our internship program. Career Opportunities Manager-In-Training Programs for Several Industry Leaders Patient Experience Coordinator/Specialist Human Resource Specialist Physician Recruiter Volunteer Coordinator Patient Accounting Specialist Medical Office Manager College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Health Services Administration (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × This program is currently available online and in the classroom. Students who choose to take online courses are urged to complete either CGS 2100C or CGS 1060C prior to enrolling in online-based courses. After enrolling in online courses, students should visit http://learn.ucf.edu. Students must complete all University-wide graduation requirements (general education, foreign language, Gordon Rule, etc.), some of which are rarely online. Prerequisite courses are rarely offered online. For more information, see http://distrib.ucf.edu/home. Students in this major are required to have an overall GPA or 2.5 or better upon graduation. Although a minimum overall GPA of 2.5 is needed for the program, students should plan to maintain a higher GPA to be competitive for graduate programs in Health Services Administration as those programs require a GPA of at least 3.0 for admission. Health Services Administration (B.S.) may be completed fully online with the exception of internship, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog Students should complete the General Education Program and the Common Program Prerequisites before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor prior to first semester of enrollment. The courses designated in sections 1 and 2 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours UCF Residency Requirement: 30 hours HSA Residency Requirement: Students must complete at least 42 credit hours of the core requirements at UCF in the Health Management and Informatics Department. Students must achieve at least 2.5 overall GPA for graduation. Satisfactory completion of HSA 4850 - Health Services Administration Internship Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 48 Total Credits Complete all of the following Students must earn a "C" (2.0) or better in each Core Requirement Complete the following: HSA3104 - Health Services Administration Cornerstone (3) HSA3111 - U.S. Health Care Systems (3) HSA3170 - Health Care Finance (3) HSA3222 - Long Term Care and Administration (3) HSA3430 - Health Care Economics (3) HSA4109 - Principles of Healthcare Reimbursement, Insurance, and Managed Care Plans (3) HSA4180 - Organization & Management for Health Agencies I (3) HIM4508C - Quality Management (3) HSC3537 - Medical Terminology (3) HSC4500 - Epidemiology (3) HSC4652 - Health Law and Ethics (3) HSA4184 - Organization & Management for Health Agencies II (3) HSA4191 - Fundamentals of Health Information Technology (3) HSC4201 - Community Health (3) Complete the following: HSA4853 - Internship Orientation HSA 4853 must be completed no more than one semester prior to HSA 4850. Earn at least 3 credits from the following: HSA4850 - Health Services Administration Internship (1 - 99) Complete at least 1 of the following: HSA4702 - Health Sciences Research Methods (3) HSA4003 - The Patient Experience from an Administrator's Perspective (3) Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: HSA4939 - Health Services Administration Capstone (3) Grand Total Credits: 51 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida