Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Doctoral Programs Welcome Programs Students FAQs FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Program Offerings How To Apply Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FCBE PhD Welcome The deadline to apply is March 1 or until class is filled. Early applications are strongly encouraged. The PhD program in Business Administration offers a wide variety of opportunities for students interested in furthering their graduate education. The Doctor of Philosophy degree in Business Administration is a basic requirement for individuals interested in academic careers at many colleges and universities. In addition, advanced degrees in business-related fields are sought after in several industries (including management information systems, and information technology). Your interest in our program and its potential for improving your training and career preparation is welcomed. This PhD program is designed to allow students to develop the research and teaching skills necessary to become effective academic scholars in business administration. Students with professional degrees in areas such as business, public administration, law, or engineering will find the program to be a sound preparation for academic advancement. The University of Memphis has the academic resources to provide the doctoral candidate with a balanced education, including qualitative and quantitative skills required of the modern educational professional. Fogelman College has an experienced research and teaching faculty to head its doctoral program, including endowed research chairs in each academic department who provide leadership for a doctoral candidate's educational advancement. Thank you for considering the Fogelman College of Business & Economics at the University of Memphis! The application deadline is March 1, but early applications are strongly encouraged. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.