Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Current Students Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Current Students Looking for course information? Certificate requirements? Practicum support? You've come to the right place. o20-1500x632.jpg Looking for help? The Office of Education remains committed to providing assistance to our students. Please click "Read More" for helpful contact information. Or visit any of the links down below. Read More Career Services Commencement Community Standards Financial Aid Office of Student Affairs Orientation Student Opportunities Student Resources Community Seminars Office of Diversity, Culture & Inclusion We are committed to creating an inclusive and equitable campus community for the development of public health practice and scholarship that reflects structural competency and cultural humility. Learn more Office of Educational Programs The Office of Educational Programs provides logistical, administrative, and pedagogical support for the school's academic programming, with a focus on the MPH program. View the Course Directory or Learn more Office of Careers & Practice The Office of Careers and Practice provides resources and supports to students from enrollment through the completion of their academic program. Learn more Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers