COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Innovation Campus Section Menu Innovation Campus Our Partnerships Facilities Innovation Campus for Students Innovation Campus History About Wichita Contact our Innovation Team Innovation Campus Map Stop Video Wichita State University's Innovation Campus brings together resources, ideas, expertise and student talent to make the world a better place. See how innovation is central to what we do. PROXIMITY + ACCESS The Innovation Campus provides amazing research facilities, makerspaces and labs, and access to top-flight centers and institutes -- all at Wichita State. See our Centers and Institutes Interact with the National Science Foundation's No. 1 ranked college in industry-funded aerospace research A short walk from the National Institute for Aviation Research and other WSU centers and research labs. Share a research and learning community with faculty and students in our excellent engineering and business schools. POWER IN PARTNERSHIPS Nearly a dozen companies and organizations already call the Innovation Campus home, interacting daily with our students and faculty and each other to accelerate timelines from ideation to product creation. Learn more about our partnerships Start the conversation Slash product development timelines with Dassault Systèmes' North American 3DEXPERIENCE Center. Build anything you can dream up at GoCreate, a Koch collaborative, one of the largest makerspaces in the U.S. Advanced Prototyping through 3D printing, augmented reality simulations and multi-robotic advanced manufacturing. INNOVATION CAMPUS PARTNERS FACULTY EXPERTISE The Innovation Campus provides access to nationally recognized experts in virtually every field to find solutions and bring products to market quicker. Visit the Office of Research Search our faculty directory Faculty experts in almost every subject -- with a focus on interdisciplinary collaboration and research. Connect with the more than 30 academic centers and institutes at Wichita State. A full slate of business resources on hand -- from business planning to market research and product development. STUDENT TALENT Wichita State is among the leaders in providing real-world work experiences for students. You can harness our innovative design-thinking approach and student skills to help move your company forward. Connecting with our students Connect to our students through well-established portals like the Career Development Center. Identify future employees by hiring our students while they're still in school. Harness student energy to tackle projects of all sizes. BE A PART OF IT ALL As an Innovation Campus partner, your employees will be steps away from great amenities, including a brand new YMCA, a host of dining options and a long list of free services and discounts. Innovation Campus map See Innovation Campus Facilities About Wichita Part of what makes Wichita State a special place to collaborate is the incredible city that we call home. As Kansas' largest city — with a growing population of nearly 700,000 — Wichita is the commercial, industrial, financial, medical, cultural and entertainment hub for the state. Learn more about Wichita Discover WSU Wichita State has activated the campus with interactive spaces that complement the many new retail and services offerings. We want the community to come see what we have to offer. Innovation Campus for Students Students from every college can benefit from the great partnerships on the Innovation Campus. See how to get involved. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©