Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success Financial Aid Policies General Admission Scholarship Rules for Continuing Students This policy relates to the automatic merit-based awards offered by the Office of Admissions. The awards require continuous full-time enrollment. Due to health concerns and uncertainty ofacademic performance in a virtual environment, the following exceptions are being made. A student who did not attend fall 2020 can still receive the award in spring 2021, but fall 2020 counts as a semester of eligibility. A student who did not attend fall 2020 and wants to sit out spring 2021 may retain the award but both fall 2020 and spring 2021 will count as semesters of eligibility. A student who enrolled in fall 2020 and wants to sit out spring 2021 may retain their award but spring 2021 will count as a semester of eligibility. If a student does not enroll fall 2021, award eligibility is rescinded for future terms. The following scholarships are impacted by these rules: Loyal Scholar, Forever Scholar, True Scholar, Adventure Award, Journey Award, Quest Award, Exploration Award, Generations Award, Award for Competitive Excellence, President’s Award for Competitive Excellence, Academic Recognition Award, Cardinal Leadership Scholar Award, Nonresident Initiative to Commend Excellence, Transfer Achievement Award, Transfer Success Award, Expedition Award, Compass Award. Consideration for Priority Financial Aid 2021-2022 FAFSA Students must complete a FAFSA by December 20th, 2020. If Iowa State University (ISU) was not listed as a recipient school on the initial FAFSA, ISU must be added and the FAFSA must be submitted to ISU no later than May 1st, 2021. The student must be offered admission by May 1st, 2021 to be considered for priority financial aid including the aid types below: 2022-2023 FAFSA Incoming freshmen and current students must complete a FAFSA by January 3rd, 2022. Incoming transfer students must complete a FAFSA by March 1st, 2022. If Iowa State University (ISU) was not listed as a recipient school on the initial FAFSA, ISU must be added and the FAFSA must be submitted to ISU no later than May 1st, 2022. The student must be offered admission by May 1st, 2022 to be considered for priority financial aid including the aid types below: Iowa State University (ISU) Grants Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Federal Work Study FAFSA Verification “Priority Aid” Document Deadline Policy In order to retain priority aid (Institutional Need-Based and Campus-Based Aid) as part of an award package, the verification process must be completed by the end of spring semester of the given FAFSA year. Priority aid at Iowa State includes Iowa State University (ISU) Grants, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG), and Federal Work Study. See FAFSA Verification Deadlines for more information. FAFSA Verification “Federal Aid” Document Deadline Policy In order to retain federal aid (Federal Direct Loans and Federal Pell Grant) as part of an award package, the verification process must be completed within 120 days of the students last date of enrollment or by September of the given FAFSA year, whichever is sooner. Financial Aid Refund Students are eligible to receive a financial aid refund when their aid exceeds the charges on their university bill. For more information on how to obtain your financial aid refund, visit the Direct Deposit webpage on the Accounts Receivable website. Cooperative Education Internships Cooperative education internships (co-ops) are institutionally supervised professional work experience that supplements formal academic classwork. Students are employed by private companies and government organizations in positions related to their major field of study. If a student participates in a cooperative education internship, there may be implications to their financial aid award. Below is a list of polices regarding cooperative education internships and their impact on financial aid: In accordance with federal regulations, students may receive financial aid for cooperative education internship if the institution determines the program is equal to full-time academic status and is required as part of the their academic program. Iowa State University does not require students to complete a cooperative education internship as part of their degree requirements, making students ineligible to receive financial aid during a cooperative education internship. Types of aid eligible to a student while participating in a cooperative education internship include Private Education Loans if they meet the lender’s requirements. Types of aid not eligible to students while participating in a cooperative education internship include: Federal Pell Grants, ISU Grants, FSEOG Grants, Admission’s Merit-Based Scholarships, Office of Student Financial Aid Scholarships, Federal Work-Study, Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, and Federal Plus Loans. Office of Student Financial Aid and Admission’s Merit-Based Scholarships will be deferred to another semester if a student is on a cooperative education internship. Students will not lose their eligibility for these types of awards. Iowa State University Departmental and External to ISU Scholarships have the choice to release awards to cooperative education students. Contact your college/department or outside scholarship donor to determine if your scholarship is eligible to be released while on a cooperative education internship. If a student is taking academic courses while completing a cooperative education internship, financial aid may be eligible for those courses. Contact the Office of Student Financial Aid (515-294-2333) to determine financial aid eligibility. Students will remain in an in-school deferment status for loan repayment and will not have to begin repayment on student loans while participating in a cooperative education internship. If a student is selected for the verification process, in conjunction with filing a FAFSA, any dollars reported under the question of “Earnings from work under a cooperative education program offered by a college”, will be removed. Releasing Personal Identifiable Information to an Authorized Third Party As of February 1, 2018, the Office of Student Financial Aid will no longer provide nor confirm personally identifiable student information to an entity outside of Iowa State University. Section 483(a)(3)(E) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), as amended, specifically restricts the use of FAFSA data, and states the data collected on the FAFSA shall only be used for the application, awarding, and administration of aid awarded under federal student aid programs, state aid, or aid awarded by eligible institutions or such entities as the Department may designate. Guidance from the U.S. Department of Education confirms that even if a student authorizes the release of this information, financial aid administrators are prohibited from doing so. In the event Iowa State students need to provide their individual FAFSA data, Expected Family Contribution (or EFC), federal and/or institutional awards, or other financial aid-related information to an entity outside of Iowa State, students will need to provide this information to outside organizations or agencies themselves. Students can access their Iowa State University Financial Aid Award in AccessPlus which will display their Expected Family Contribution (or EFC) as calculated by the FAFSA, Cost of Attendance (or COA), and current financial aid award information. On the “Financial Aid Award” page in AccessPlus, students should use the “Print PDF” option in order to print and provide to entities requesting financial aid information. Students also have access to their FAFSA Student Aid Report (or SAR) which can provide additional FAFSA information. Veteran’s Benefits The U.S. Department of Education, starting with the 2009-2010 academic year, no longer requires that education benefits received by the student from the Veterans Affairs Administration (Chapters 30, 33, 35, 1606 and 1607) or ROTC programs administered by the Department of Defense be considered as a resource toward meeting a student’s ‘need’ when awarding ‘Federal’ Title IV student financial aid. These chapter benefits are no longer required to be reported on the FAFSA. University Nondiscrimination Statement Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. Veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, Hotline: 515-294-1222, email eooffice@iastate.edu. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Policy Information on the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Policy can be found here. Current Student Financial Aid Enrollment Status Students may receive “full-time” status from the Office of the Registrar or Student Disability Resources for multiple reasons, including: Internship, Independent Study, or Research Disability Accommodation The “full-time” designation from other offices is not used for financial aid purposes. When determining eligibility for student financial aid, the number of credits enrolled is reviewed. Students are awarded financial aid based on full-time enrollment. Students who are enrolled less than full-time may be eligible for a prorated award. Financial Aid Enrollment Status Definitions for Undergraduate Students for the Fall and Spring Semesters Full-time enrollment – 11.5 credits per semester Three-quarter time enrollment – 8.5-11 credits per semester Half-time enrollment – 5.5-8 credits per semester Less than half-time enrollment – 0-5 credits per semester Financial Aid Enrollment Status Definitions for Graduate Students for the Fall and Spring Semesters Full-time enrollment – 8.5 credits per semester Three-quarter time enrollment – 7-8 credits per semester Half-time enrollment – 4.5-6.5 credits per semester Less than half-time enrollment – 0-4 credits per semester Summer Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Enrollment Definition, please go to: www.financialaid.iastate.edu/summer-aid/ C-Base Graduate Student Enrollment Status Graduate students who are employed in a c-base graduate assistantship may be enrolled in a reduced number of credits and receive federal financial aid. If you are registered in at least two credit hours, you may be considered a half-time student if you are on an assistantship and are working on your dissertation, thesis, or doing research needed to complete your degree. Your financial aid may be subject to review each semester to confirm your employment in an eligible graduate assistantship. The amount of financial aid received will be based on the cost of attendance determined by the actual amount of tuition assessed. The Office of Student Financial Aid urges students to carefully examine the amount of student loans needed to complete their course of study. Undeclared Graduate Students Graduate students may be classified as “Undeclared” by the Graduate College. Per Federal Student Aid policy, these students may receive the undergraduate Federal Direct Loan annual limits for a 12 month period in this status as a “preparatory student”. Federal Direct Loan Limit – $2,750 per semester, up to two semesters, must adhere to the $31,000 lifetime loan aggregate. These students do not receive the additional $2000 in Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans that a junior/senior level student receives. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Limit – $3,500 per semester, up to two semesters, only if considered an independent student for criteria excluding being a graduate student. If an independent student, they must adhere to the $57,500 lifetime loan aggregate. This population is not considered a graduate student for Federal Student Aid. Therefore: They are not eligible for the Direct Graduate PLUS Loan. They may seek funding through a private loan if they are in need of additional funds. They can receive Parent PLUS Loan funding if they are considered a dependent student. Their FAFSA should not be changed to independent due to being a graduate student. Financial Aid Census Date Policy In accordance with federal regulations, the Office of Student Financial Aid will recalculate federal, state, and institutional student aid awards based on the enrollment status as of the published Census Date (Count Day) by the Office of the Registrar, which is typically the end of the 10th day of class for both Fall and Spring terms. (The Census Date for Summer enrollment will vary based on the length of the course(s) taken.) If you drop credits prior to or on the 10th day of class (the census date), you may be required to repay some or all of your aid that was disbursed to you if you do not, at that time, meet the enrollment requirements for the types of aid you have been awarded. If you drop credits after the 10th day of class (the census date) and receive a tuition and fee credit to your U-Bill, the Office of Student Financial Aid may use that credit balance to reduce your student loan indebtedness. If you drop credit after the 10th day of class but the effective date of the drop is prior to the 10th day of class (the census date), the Office of Student Financial Aid will use the effective drop date to determine aid eligibility. If you add credits after the 10th day of class (the census date), you may not be eligible to receive additional financial aid. The Office of Student Financial Aid is not able to adjust all types of aid after the census date but will work with special situations on an individual basis. Students should contact the Office of Student Financial Aid at financialaid@iastate.edu before adding courses after the census date that would affect enrollment level (for example: moving from half to three-quarter time, etc.). Withdrawal From Classes Withdrawing from classes may affect a student’s financial aid eligibility. More information about Withdrawal From Classes Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Federal regulations require the Office of Student Financial Aid to monitor the academic progress of students receiving financial aid. More information about SAP Repeating Courses — Impact to Financial Aid An undergraduate student is allowed to retake any previously passed course one time and receive federal financial aid for that course. For this purpose, passed means any grade higher than an “F”. If a student passed a course once then received federal aid for retaking it and fails the second time, that failure counts as their paid retake. If a student takes a previously passed course for the third or more time, that course will not be eligible for federal financial aid and will not be included in their enrollment status for financial aid purposes. This could cause their federal financial aid to be reduced or removed from that semester’s award depending upon their enrollment status excluding the repeated course. A student may repeatedly receive federal aid for repeatedly failing the same course (normal SAP policy still applies to such cases). Less than Full Time Enrollment and Financial Aid Policy Iowa State University students who are enrolled at a less than full time status (11.5 credits for undergraduates and 8.5 credits for graduates) will have their financial aid cost of attendance reduced if they are receiving federal grants, institutional gift aid, and student and/or parent loans. The cost of attendance will be reduced to reflect a student’s assessed tuition and fee amount. This may cause a change in financial aid eligibility, even if financial aid has already been disbursed. Students will be responsible for paying back disbursed aid if financial aid eligibility changes. Tuition credit refunds will be held for 10 business days to adjust a student’s financial aid account. The TEACH Grant and some Pell Grant recipients are eligible when enrolled less than half-time. The ISU Grant, Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (FSEOG), Federal Direct Loans, and Graduate/Parent PLUS Loans require a student be enrolled half-time to be eligible. Adjustments to enrollment status made after the 10th day of class will not cause an adjustment in the cost of attendance. CA & RM Positions Regarding CA [Community Advisor] / RM [Residence Manager] positions: The U.S. Department of Education requires that room and board received as employment compensation be considered as either a resource in calculation of the student’s financial need (Question 45 of the FAFSA) or as financial aid. Iowa State University considers CA/RM compensation as financial aid. Therefore, the student should not report their CA/RM room and board compensation on question 45 of the FAFSA. Concurrent Student Enrollment Operational policies for concurrent undergraduate/graduate students: At the point that a student is classified at the graduate level, students will no longer be eligible for undergraduate aid (Federal Pell Grant, Iowa State University Grants, FSEOG Grant, Differential Tuition Awards, and Subsidized Direct Loans). To maintain eligibility for external and ISU college/departmental scholarships while a student is classified as concurrent, the scholarship must meet donor parameters set in place when originally awarded. Students will be eligible for graduate level aid as determined by the Office of Student Financial Aid. Students receiving admissions institutional scholarships may continue to receive them until they have completed their undergraduate degree. Students can still only receive scholarships originally awarded through Office of Admissions for a maximum of eight semesters. Concurrent students must still enroll in 12 or more credits in order to receive their admissions scholarship for a given semester and to remain eligible for future semesters. Non-resident students on assistantship who receive an in-state benefit will have the award adjusted to reflect the resident rate. This is consistent with current policy for non-resident undergraduates who become resident students. Second Bachelor’s Degree or Teaching Endorsement after First Bachelor’s Degree Students working toward their second bachelor’s degree or teaching endorsement after first bachelor’s degree will not be awarded priority financial aid, including the following aid types: Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Iowa State University (ISU) Grant Iowa Grant College Work Study (Federal or State) Students working toward their second bachelor’s degree or teaching endorsement after first bachelor’s degree are not eligible for a Federal Pell Grant. Proof of Attendance Federal Regulations require that students who receive a Pell Grant, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, and/or College Work Study and receive a non-passing grade or drop a course must prove that they attended one day of that course. Students will need to submit proof of attendance in the form of an assignment, quiz, or test, or other documentation deemed acceptable by the Office of Student Financial Aid. Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success