Skip navigation University of Washington UW Home Directories Calendar Libraries Maps My UW UW Bothell UW Tacoma University of Washington Together we make history. Discover what's next. Discover the UW About Academic Departments Colleges and Schools Diversity Educational Excellence Husky Sports Leadership Research at the UW UW Today News Vision & Values Visit the UW Spotlight on Sustainability Spotlight on Healthy Lives Spotlight on Global Citizens Spotlight on Innovation Founded in 1861, the University of Washington is one of the oldest state-supported institutions of higher education on the West Coast and is one of the preeminent research universities in the world. Learn more Current Students Student Guide Undergraduate Learning Student Life Diversity Resources Choosing a Major Advising Academic Calendar Time Schedule Tuition, Fees Financial Aid Registration Info Career Center Dining Libraries SafeCampus Computing / IT Connect MyUW Alpine / Email At the University of Washington, we are committed to supporting our students' development: intellectually, physically and emotionally. Learn more about Student Life Future Students Admissions (undergraduate) Campus Tours Continuing Education Course Descriptions Graduate School Majors (undergraduate) Financial Aid Tuition, Fees Transfer Credit Policies Student Housing Dining Student Life Exceptional learning opportunities are around every corner. Our students have gone to the moon. Mapped the human genome. Broken the sound barrier. Created vaccines. Negotiated peace. What amazing things will UW grads do next? Read more Faculty & Staff Employee Self Service Human Resources Benefits & Work/Life Jobs SafeCampus Administration Faculty Senate Research at the UW Teaching at the UW Academic HR Professional Staff Organization Libraries Computing / IT Connect MyUW Office, Staff Directories Policy Directory Alpine / Email The University of Washington recruits the best, most diverse and innovative faculty and staff from around the world, encouraging a vibrant intellectual community for our students. We promote access to excellence and strive to inspire through education. Vision & Values Alumni Alumni Events Alumni Services Alumni Tours Columns Magazine Connect with other Alumni Lifelong Learning Networking and Careers Support the UW UWAA on Facebook UWAA Membership Viewpoints Magazine Volunteer Opportunities No matter where you are, Husky Happy Hours are a great way to plug into the University of Washington's strong network of alumni. Connect with UW grads in a casual setting and meet fellow alumni in your area. Details NW Neighbors Arts UW Ticket Office Botanic Gardens Burke Museum Visitor Info Henry Art Gallery Visitor Info Husky Sports Ticket Office University District Using UW Resources UW in the Neighborhood UW Libraries Visitor Info UW Medicine Neighborhood Clinics Seattle Tourism The Evergreen State Visit Husky Central in downtown Seattle. It's a one-stop location for "everything Husky." Store info UW Medicine UW Office Directory Browse Main Offices A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Office Name About the UW Office Directory Version: 1.5.5631.28834 View Full Site © 2011 University of Washington Seattle, Washington Contact Us Jobs My UW UWOD works best with JavaScript enabled.