Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Registrar Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Waitlist Guidelines Waitlist Guidelines How can I see if a section has a waitlist? Seat availability can be viewed by expanding section information in class search (click > on left-hand side). Under the Availability heading you can see the class status, the number of seats open, and the number of Wait List Seats open. If the Wait List Open field is showing as 0/0 the section does not have a wait list. If there is no waitlist option available and the section is closed, then you can contact the department with any questions about enrolling for the section. How can I add myself to a waitlist? Students may waitlist a class via my.SMU when the Waitlist If Class Full box on the Add Classes page is checked, the class has a waitlist and/or space on the waitlist, and there are either no available seats or available seats are restricted. When the Waitlist If Class Full box is checked, and the transaction is submitted, students who are successfully added to a waitlist will see a message under Enrollment Results which includes the Waitlist Position number. This number is updated each time the waitlist process is run, and is also accessible by clicking on the Enrollment section in your Dashboard sidebar, and selecting View Wait List. Additional information about adding waitlisted sections can be found at my.SMU Student Essentials – Enrolling in Classes. How does the waitlist process work? When seats become available in a section that has a waitlist, the class remains closed until a process runs that automatically enrolls students from the waitlist. The class stays closed until the process attempts to enroll any waiting students. The waitlist process attempts to enroll students based on waitlist position number. If a student does not meet the criteria to enroll in the class, the process will skip that student and attempt to enroll the next student on the list. If the waitlist is unable to enroll any of the students who are on the waitlist, the class will open and other, non-waitlisted students will be able to enroll for the open seats. Please see the question, "What would prevent me from being auto-enrolled from the waitlist?" for additional information. Students who were on the waitlist and were not enrolled will maintain their position on the waitlist. Students will have an opportunity to be auto-enrolled the next time a seat is made available, if they resolve the issue that prevented them from being auto-enrolled previously. If there are no students on the waitlist, the class will open as usual whenever seats are available. Students on the waitlist are not guaranteed enrollment in the waitlisted class. Successful enrollment depends on space availability and meeting class requirements. When does the waitlist process run? The waitlist process runs each business day on the hour beginning at 9am and ending at 5pm. The process begins running on the first day of Continuing Enrollment, and continues through the Add/Drop period. How many waitlist seats are available for each section? The number of waitlist seats are determined by the departments. You can view the number of available waitlist seats by using the Class Search in my.SMU, and expanding the section information. When can I add myself to a section waitlist? Students cannot get on a waitlist until their enrollment appointment or open enrollment has begun. Students may add themselves to the waitlist through the fourth day of classes during Fall/Spring enrollment, and through the first day of classes during Summer enrollment, and through the day before the last day to enroll for Jan/May. The waitlist process will run through the Add/Drop period. The waitlist will be purged on the sixth class day during Fall/Spring, and the second class day during Summer, and the day after the last day to enroll for Jan/May. This process removes all remaining students from the waitlist and waitlisted classes will no longer appear on student schedules. How am I notified if I have been enrolled in a waitlisted class section? Email notification will be sent to students who are successfully moved from Wait List to Enrollment in a waitlisted class section. In accordance with University Policy, the email notification will be sent to the student’s campus email address only. There is no notification sent to students who do not move from the waitlist due to schedule conflicts and/or not meeting class requirements. What would prevent me from getting on a section waitlist? Requisites for the class are not met Department/Instructor Consent is required Negative service indicators (enrollment holds) Enrollment appointment has not arrived Last day to waitlist has passed Maximum number of waitlist hours has been reached (Fall/Spring/Summer - 6 hours; Jan/May - 3 hours) Already enrolled in that class section Already waitlisted for the class section Waitlist is at capacity What would prevent me from being auto-enrolled from the waitlist? Open seats are restricted, and the student doesn’t meet the restriction criteria Adding the waitlisted class will exceed the maximum number of units for which a student can be enrolled Waitlisted section has a time conflict with another class section that the student is already enrolled for Student is enrolled in another section of the same class, and did not use the SWAP function when adding themselves to the waitlist. Students should use the SWAP function to swap the section that they are currently enrolled in with the section that they would like to waitlist, if the preference is to be enrolled in the waitlisted section if space becomes available. If students ADD themselves to the waitlist for a different section of the same class (instead of using the SWAP function), then they must be dropped from the section in which they are enrolled before they will be moved from the waitlist. Please contact the Registrar’s Office (registrar@smu.edu) for assistance. If students are unable to be enrolled by the waitlist process, they will be skipped, and the system will attempt to enroll the next eligible student on the waitlist. The skipped student will remain on the waitlist. When should the SWAP enrollment function be used? If students are already enrolled in another section of the class for which they want to waitlist, SWAP should be used. If students use the ADD enrollment function to get on a waitlist for a different section of the same class, they must DROP the section in which they are enrolled before they will be moved from the waitlist. Students may also want to use SWAP if there is a known time conflict between an already enrolled section, and the section that they want to waitlist. If students use the ADD enrollment function, they will not be auto-enrolled into the waitlisted class section until they DROP the class that is conflicting. Additional information about swapping waitlisted sections can be found at my.SMU Student Essentials – Enrolling in Classes. How can I remove myself from a waitlist? Students can drop a waitlist class section by using the DROP function in self-service enrollment. If a student is enrolled in another section of the same class that they want to drop, please contact the Registrar’s office for assistance. Additional information about dropping waitlisted sections can be found at my.SMU Student Essentials – Enrolling in Classes. Is there a maximum number of sections that I can waitlist? Students are not able to waitlist more than 6 hours for Fall/Spring/Summer (5 hours for Jan/May), and cannot exceed the maximum unit load of 18 hours in Fall/Spring, 14 hours in Summer, and 5 hours in Jan/May. The maximum unit load is a student's enrolled hours. Waitlisted units do not count toward the student's enrolled hours for a term, except for Jan and May terms. Can I get on a waitlist for a class section that has restricted seats? If a section has restricted seats, students who do not meet the restriction can add themselves to the waitlist for the class. Students will only be auto-enrolled by the waitlist process if the seat that opens is unrestricted. Can I waitlist a section if it has a time conflict with another section that I am enrolled for? The self-service enrollment process does not check for a time conflict whenever a student adds themselves to a waitlist. Whenever the waitlist process runs, the system will not be able to enroll the student in the waitlisted section if a time conflict exists. The student would need to drop the conflicting section in order to be moved off of the waitlist. Alternatively, the student should use the SWAP function when first adding themselves to a waitlist for a section that conflicts with a previously enrolled section. That way, if a seat opens up in the waitlisted section, the student will automatically be dropped from the conflicting section. Additional information about swapping waitlisted sections can be found at my.SMU Student Essentials – Enrolling in Classes. What do I do if I used the ADD enrollment function to add myself to a waitlist, when I meant to use the SWAP enrollment function? Students should use the SWAP function to swap a section that they are currently enrolled in with the section that they would like to waitlist, if the preference is to be moved out of the enrolled section and moved into the waitlisted section if space becomes available. If the ADD enrollment function is used instead, the system will attempt to enroll the student in the waitlisted section without swapping the class with another enrolled section. If a student used the ADD enrollment function, but intended to use the SWAP enrollment function, the student must drop themselves from the waitlisted class, and then add themselves to the waitlist again using the SWAP enrollment function. The student’s original waitlist position will not be retained. How can I tell if there are students on a waitlist for a class (Faculty/Staff)? The Class Roster page will list all of the students that are on a waitlist for a section, as well as their waitlist position number. You will need to change the roster view from Enrollment to Waiting in order to see the students who are on the waitlist. To see if an individual student is on a waitlist, you can use any of the following pages – Enrollment Summary, Study List, and Advisee Class Schedule. Students are not able to see who is on a waitlist for class. They are able to view their own waitlisted class sections by viewing their class schedule in my.SMU. Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share