Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AAC Population Hearing Health Vocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs Population Hearing Health Certificate Population Hearing Health Certificate Program Description In March of 2021, the World Health Organization released its first World Report on Hearing. In this report, it was estimated that by 2050, nearly 2.5 billion individuals (or 1 in 4 people) will have some degree of hearing loss. This is a cause for concern as untreated hearing loss is associated with poorer health outcomes, higher healthcare utilization and costs, and decreased quality of life. The report also finds that there is a shortage of professionals trained in prevention, early identification, and management of hearing loss even among healthcare professionals. This global report has a similar tone to national efforts to improve hearing health outcomes. Specifically, Healthy People 2030 has several specific goals to prevent hearing loss and improve the quality of life for those living with it. Hearing healthcare providers need advanced training in population health to contribute to the discussion on meeting national and global objectives in improving hearing health. This certificate, the first of its kind, offers the opportunity for hearing health providers and public health experts to enhance the knowledge of population health concepts and apply them on a population level. It will be offered completely online to appeal to national interest in this topic area. Admission Requirements: To be eligible for the certificate program in Population Hearing Health: Applicants must be a graduate student at the University of Memphis, a graduate student studying in a field of public health or hearing sciences and disorders or have a completed Doctor of Audiology or a related degree with a GPA of at least 3.00. Applicants who do not speak English as their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum TOEFL score. To apply, students must submit an application form, a current or completed graduate transcript, and a one-page letter of intent to the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders for review. Letters of intent should describe reasons for pursuing the certificate, relevant background and experiences, and/or professional goals or plans. Admission to this certificate program does not imply acceptance into any graduate program in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders or within the university. Program Requirements: Students are required to take the 3 required courses listed below along with two 3-hour electives. Required Courses (9 credit hours): AUSP 7132/8132 Special Topics: Population Hearing Health PUBH 7170 Epidemiology in Public Health PUBH 7180 Foundations of Public Health Electives (6 credit hours): PUBH 7160 Social and Behavioral Sciences HADM 7105 Health Policy and Organization of Health Services PUBH 7002 Community Health Assessment & Program Planning PUBH 7132 Health Program Evaluation (pre-requisite: PUBH 7160) PUBH 7130 Social Determinants of Health PUBH 7014 Public Health Communication AUSP 7505 Interprofessional Education and Practice Retention/Graduation Requirements: To obtain the certificate, students must complete all three of the required courses (9 credits) and two electives (6 credits) for a total of 15 credits with a minimum grade of B (GPA = 3.00) in each course. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Intent to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. For additional information contact Sarah E. Warren, AuD, PhD, CCC-A 901.678.5816 sarah.warren@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.