Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH University Offices Enrollment Services Office of the University Registrar Transcripts Office of the University Registrar Academic Forms Curricular Services Transcripts Attachments to Transcripts Check Order Status Order Processing Delays Sending Transcripts to UH Delegated Access Schedule Planner NCAA Certification Enrollment FAQs Contact the University Registrar's Team Transcripts Ordering Transcripts The University of Houston has partnered with Credentials Solutions, Inc. to provide a web-based transcript service. Please note: The University of Houston does not release copies of transcripts received from other institutions. If you need a transcript from a prior institution, you must contact that institution. Official Transcript Fee Transcripts are $12.50 each. Additional fees apply for special services such as in-person pick up, express delivery, and apostille notarization. Transcripts will be sent electronically or on paper by mail, depending on the selected destination. Transcripts cannot be released if the student has a transcript hold. Ordering Options All current and former students may order transcripts using any of the following methods: Online for Delivery Pick Up Please Note: The Welcome Center does not mail transcripts; all digital, mail, and pick up orders must be placed online or by phone. Order Online - for Delivery Delivery methods include electronic delivery (fastest), USPS first class mail, or express delivery. Please begin your order by selecting the applicable portal below. Order Online - for Pick Up Transcripts may be ordered online for pick up at the Welcome Center for an additional fee of $10 per transcript. If placing a transcript order for pick up, it is essential to select the option "Official Transcript - Pick Up" during the ordering process to ensure proper handling. Once you arrive at the Welcome Center, please check-in for the Office of the University Registrar and proceed to our location. If someone other than the student is designated to pick up the transcript, the exact name must be provided during the order process. The name on the transcript or designee for pick up must match the person and ID provided during pick up. A valid ID will be required in order to receive your order. Please begin your order by selecting the applicable portal below. Online Ordering Portals: Log into your student account: Don’t remember your student account? Place your order here: Credentials Solutions Customer Service - 847-716-3005 Customer Service representatives are available Monday-Thursday, 7:00 am to 7:00 pm Friday, 7:00 am to 5:00 pm (CST/CDT) Payment Methods All transcript order payments, whether placed for delivery or pick up, are processed online through Credentials Solutions. Payment must be made by credit card. Visa MasterCard American Express Discover Important Links Academic Forms Welcome Center at the University of Houston Undergraduate Academic Advisors Graduate Academic Advising Get Help University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies