COVID-19 Info: Mask Up, Vax Up, Get Tested, Self-Report Skip Top Navigation Search Future Students How to Apply Visit UHCL Admitted Students Tuition, Costs and Aid Degrees and Programs Contact Admissions More Information Current Students Class Schedule Academic Calendar Advising Events Library Academic Resources and Support Student Services and Resources More Information Alumni Lifetime Membership Alumni Events Update Your information Awards and Recognitions Give to UHCL More Information Faculty & Staff Faculty Highlights Administrative Offices Benefits Training Policies Course Development More Information Community Maps and Directions Parking Employment News and Events More Information Menu Search Information For E-Services Hawk Card Class Schedule go.uhcl.edu UHCL at Pearland Academics Back Degrees and Programs Colleges Academic Resources and Offices Advising First Year Seminar Library Provost Centers and Institutes Extended and Professional Education Academic Calendar Catalog Commencement Global Learning Military and Veteran Services Enhance your degree plan with a minor. With over 40 minors to choose from, UHCL has something for every interest. Explore UHCL Degrees and Programs Admissions Back Apply for Admission Admitted Students Visit Freshman Transfer Graduate Military and Veteran Services International Non-Degree Seeking Former Students Counselors Parents Forms Contact Admissions Explore our 524-acre campus located on a wildlife and nature preserve in the heart of Clear Lake’s high tech community. Schedule a Campus Visit Costs and Aid Back Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Forms and Resources Payment Frequently Asked Questions Most UHCL students don't pay the full cost of college on their own. Last year, for example, two out of three UHCL students received some kind of aid package. Learn more about Costs and Aid. Campus Life Back Student Affairs Orientation and New Student Programs Health and Wellness Student Involvement and Leadership Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Career Services Campus Community Housing Dining Events Student Services and Resources Arts and Culture From annual traditions like the Cultural Extravaganza, to faculty vs. student kickball games, UHCL's campus activities offer an ideal opportunity to explore life outside the classroom. Discover the UHCL community. News and Events Back News Events Calendar Office of Special Events Emergency Communications Get the latest information about campus updates and events, student and alumni success stories, and more. You can also submit your own story idea. Find out what's new at UHCL. About UHCL Back Administrative Leadership Strategic Partnerships History Facts and Statistics Map and Directions Directory Administrative Offices and Resources Working at UHCL Accreditations Impact 2025 and Beyond Looking for a career change? A new career at UHCL could be in your future. Explore UHCL Employment Opportunities Success and Outcomes Back Career Outcomes Student Success Institutional Success Notable Alumni The experience you get here is for a purpose - to give you a better chance at career success. And while we're affordable, we're a great value because of how far our degree takes you. Meet our notable alumni. Information For Back Future Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Community Give Apply Request Info Visit Contact Us Dr. Richard Walker announced as sixth president to lead UHCL UHS Chancellor Renu Khator has appointed Dr. Richard Walker to serve as the sixth president of UH-Clear Lake effective May 20, 2022. Apply for Fall 2022 Admission The sooner you apply, the better chance you have at getting financial aid and the class schedule you want. Apply today! Stay Healthy, Hawks Help us slow the spread of COVID-19. Follow our community standards for health and safety and stay informed. Undergraduate Graduate Online June 3 Summer Open Registration Ends June 15 Summer Graduation Application Deadline July 15 Fall Freshman Application Deadline Explore UHCL Future Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Virtual Tour Explore UHCL Future Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Virtual Tour News Visit the Newsroom > Events View More Events > JUL 15 2022 Fall Freshman Priority Application Deadline AUG 1 2022 Fall Graduate Application Deadline AUG 12 2022 Fall Transfer Priority Application Deadline Maps and Directions Emergency Information University of Houston System Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Campus Safety Directory Faculty and Course Profiles Emergency Resource Card Texas Veterans Portal TRAIL (Statewide Search) State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Public Information Act Fraud Reporting Compact with Texans Linking Notice Privacy Notice University Policies Report It Campus Carry Anti-Discrimination (Title VII) Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness (Title IX) Mental Health Resources Web Accessibility 281-283-7600 2700 Bay Area Boulevard, Houston, TX 77058 © 2022 University of Houston-Clear Lake Report a problem with this webpage ©