Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Keep Harvard Healthy Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Guided by our commitment to education and research and to our community’s health and safety, Harvard has welcomed many more students, faculty, staff, and researchers back to campus this academic year. Supporting our community’s wellbeing while advancing Harvard’s academic enterprise requires our collective participation in the University’s adaptable, multi-layered health and safety measures. Through robust commitment at the University, School, and individual level, we can all play a role in preventing the spread of infection and can help keep Harvard healthy. For the latest information, read the most recent messages from University leadership. We will communicate additional updates and guidance as needed based on public health conditions. View the latest data on positive cases, total tests, and vaccination rates What to Do if You Tested Positive or Are Exposed Use the resources below to inform your next steps if you test positive through Harvard’s testing program, if you test positive outside Harvard’s testing program, or if you have a potential exposure. HUHS COVID-19 testing, exposure, quarantine, and isolation FAQsOpens new window If Your Test Is Positive The HUHS Contact Tracing Team will email you to explain next steps, including isolation and self-care recommendations. Contact tracers rely on your Harvard email for communication, so please check your inbox. Isolation requirements If You’ve Been Exposed Read HUHS’ exposure guidance to determine your risk and next steps, which may include additional testing and quarantining. Exposure guidance and quarantine requirements Report through Crimson Clear If you test positive outside of Harvard’s testing program, if you have symptoms, or if you have close contact exposure to someone with COVID-19, report it via Crimson Clear. Report through Crimson Clear Protect Each Other An adaptable, multi-layered approach to keeping Harvard healthy that’s grounded in science, our collective expertise, and public health conditions Get vaccinated and boosted Campus-wide vaccination and boosters are the best defense against severe illness from COVID-19. The University is requiring COVID-19 vaccinations for all Harvard community members and one COVID-19 booster for all eligible community members. This includes students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Vaccine & booster information Keep a mask handy While masks are optional in most Harvard settings, many individuals will choose to continue to wear a mask, and masks required in limited settings. Individuals are encouraged to have an acceptable face covering on their persons at all times for situations in which they may be required. Masking information Testing on campus Guided by public health officials and experts, Harvard has transitioned to optional testing for the entire campus community. Harvard affiliates are not required to test regularly, however have the option of doing so if they wish. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should test and follow HUHS guidance. View testing cadences Verify Your Vaccination and Booster The University is requiring COVID-19 vaccinations for all Harvard community members and one COVID-19 booster for all eligible community members. This includes students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Consistent with federal guidance, all Harvard employees, including those who are on 100% remote work status, must be fully vaccinated. Verify your vaccination and booster with HUHS. Verify your vaccination & booster Practice Healthy Habits We must continue to practice the healthy habits and behaviors that reduce the risk of transmission. Review the resources for masks, vaccination and boosters, testing, exposure and symptom reporting, quarantine and isolation guidance, and socializing thoughtfully. Learn how to keep Harvard healthy Campus Access We have an individual and collective responsibility to keep ourselves and our community members safe. All community members are expected to adhere to University policies and public health directives. Students Faculty, staff, & researchers Visitors Events Post-travel testing & quarantine policy Guidance for on-campus activity Travel Information University-related travel, both international and domestic, is permitted for affiliates who satisfy the University’s COVID-19 vaccination and booster requirements. Travel guidance Latest COVID Updates and Messages Read the latest COVID-19 community messages from University leadership. See all COVID updates and messages COVID-19 Considerations at Commencement May 23, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, I am writing with public health guidance directed in particular to those attending commencement-related events. COVID-19 transmission is rated as “high” in Boston and Cambridge. Please use this knowledge… Read more COVID Update – Transition to Optional Testing Program Apr 25, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, In the coming weeks, the University will cease to require regular surveillance testing. Testing will continue to be available on an optional basis, and anyone with symptoms or known exposure… Read more COVID-19 Guidance Update and University Travel Update Apr 13, 2022 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, We are writing with updates on our evolving COVID-19 policies. We continue our daily monitoring of cases and other key indicators, including hospitalizations. While we have seen recent increases in… Read more Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube