Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Current Students Baylor Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor>Law School>Baylor Law Current Students>Academic Services>Professional Development Program Professional Development Program Wellness for Law Students: Commitment to Staying Focused and Balanced Tuesday, May 10 at 1:20 p.m. Careers in Tax: From Private Practice to Agency Work Thursday, May 26 at 4:00 p.m. Lawyering Outside the Courtroom: Ways to Use Your Baylor Law Education Outside of Litigation Thursday, June 2 at 4:00 p.m. How Lawyers Market with a Limited Marketing Budget Thursday, June 16 at 12:00 p.m. Lincoln and Churchill: The Power of Words Friday, June 17 at 10:40 a.m. Career Opportunities in Bankruptcy Practice: A View From the Bench and Bar Thursday, June 23 at 4:00 p.m. The Emotionally Intelligent Leader Wednesday, June 29 at 10:40 a.m. You can register for programs in BearLink. Zoom links for virtual presentations can be found in Canvas. Track your Professional Development hours in BearWeb. (See Distinct Student Population.) Questions regarding the program may be directed to Kristine Bridges. If needed, those questions will in turn be directed to the faculty Professional Development Committee. Employers want graduates who are knowledgeable about the professional and business practicalities of practicing law. Recent law school graduates have likewise expressed the need for this type of training. Both groups have specifically suggested the need for more guidance in client relations, law firm economics and financial management, legal billing and time management, legal marketing and networking, professional organizations and leadership opportunities, navigation through common ethical issues, job search strategies, and professional writing. Our goal is to produce professionals who are truly “practice ready” and prepared to succeed. Practicing attorneys are required to attend 15 seminar hours of continuing legal education each year. We built a Professional Development Program based on that model, with three significant differences: Instead of requiring 15 seminar hours per year, we require 18 seminar hours spread over three years of law school. Instead of charging for these seminar hours, we provide these seminar hours to students without charge. Instead of structuring the program to cover every aspect of practice, we focus the program on the most important professional development skills needed by new attorneys. Additional information about Baylor's Professional Development Program: In order to track your hours, you will swipe your Baylor ID card through a card reader. However, if the program is offered online, the Professional Development Committee will track attendance. Students must join the online presentation on time and stay for the duration of the program to receive credit. You will be asked to turn in an evaluation form at the end of each seminar to help us evaluate the quality of each seminar speaker. Multiple seminars and workshops will be offered, to allow students to meet their professional development requirement from a personally-customized selection. Some program offerings are, however, judged to be crucially important, and attendance at those offerings will be required. We will periodically post a selection of offerings eligible for Professional Development credit, identified by the Practice-Ready logo. In addition to information about time, place, and subject, each offering will show how much credit it provides and whether it is mandatory. Because the professional development requirement must be met as a condition for graduation, it is important to keep up with your hours. Keep these limitations in mind: Although you are welcome to attend as many seminar and workshops as you choose, no more than five (5) hours of credit may be earned in one quarter, so it is important not to delay attendance. (We believe information is best absorbed over the three-year course of law school.) In planning the sequencing of attendance, plan to attend approximately three (3) seminar and workshop hours each quarter. There is no expectation for you to attend during the third quarter in the midst of moot court exercises or during your Practice Court quarters. This leaves six quarters to earn your professional development hours. Although most offerings will not be mandatory, make sure to attend those which are, including the three mandatory programs in your first quarter. There is also a category of Introductory-level offerings (essentially “Day-in-the-Life” seminars) for which a maximum of three (3) seminar hours may be credited, although students are free to attend as many of these offerings as desired. Students may earn a maximum of two (2) hours of professional development credit by attending (in person) programs accredited by a bar association for approved continuing legal education (CLE) for licensed attorneys. To receive credit, students must submit the following to the Professional Development Committee: Name, date, length, and location of presentation; name, title, and employer of speaker; and a brief (one – two paragraphs for each hour) description of the presentation and what the student learned from the presentation. Students may submit this to Kristine Bridges. Students are encouraged but not required to request approval for credit prior to attending a CLE program. Students may earn a maximum of one (1) hour of professional development credit for hours worked for the Estate Planning Clinic, Veterans Clinic, Immigration Clinic, and/or Trial Advocacy Clinic. One-half (.5) hour of professional development credit will be earned for each three hours of work performed for a clinic or team that is approved by the faculty supervisor. See Stephen Rispoli or clinic directors for guidelines. All students must attend the following mandatory programs: Three programs scheduled within the Introduction to Law and the Legal Profession course in the first quarter. Professor Serr will provide students with a list of these mandatory programs. Career Development Orientation in the second quarter. Effective Business Communications in the second quarter or later. Most seminars will be scheduled either during lunch hours or during afternoons, with occasional evening seminars. Students are responsible for monitoring the proper recording of professional development credits, and they will have until the first day of the next quarter to alert Assistant Dean Kristine Bridges if there has been a failure to credit them with attendance at a program. Students seeking credit for a program for which attendance was not credited will be required to provide a note from two other recorded attendees confirming their attendance at the program. Baylor Law Current Students Academic Services Bar Exam & MPRE Bar Review Resources Bearweb Catalog Class Rank Course & Exam Schedules Course Listings, Books & Materials Curriculum & Advisement Advisement Documents Course Descriptions Degree Audit Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Elective Prerequisites for Juris Doctor Field Placement Program Juris Doctor Degree Requirements Professional Tracks & Special Distinctions for J.D. Students Schedule Planner for J.D. Students Exams FERPA Grade Deadlines Graduation Office of Access and Learning Accommodation(OALA) Official Transcript Professional Development Program Professional Development Videos Registration Add/Drop Course & Final Exam Schedules Student Financial Services Tuition & Fees Law Financial Aid Counseling University Financial Aid Office Parking & Transportation Pay Your Bill Scholarship Criteria Study Abroad Transfer Credit Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback ABA Required Disclosures FERPA Policies Honor Code Notice of Non-Discrimination Student Conduct Policy Comments and Concerns Submit Your Comments & Concerns Practice Court Online Attendance Request Form Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Announcements John William & Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series 2022 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2022 Student Awards 2021 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2021 Student Awards 2020 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2020 Student Awards Student Opportunities Competitions Internal Competitions External Competitions Competition Results Policies and Forms The Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Courtcall Law School Award The Ultimate Writer Competition Student Organizations Event and Speaker Approval Form Study Abroad Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Academic Services Bar Exam & MPRE Bar Review Resources Bearweb Catalog Class Rank Course & Exam Schedules Course Listings, Books & Materials Curriculum & Advisement Advisement Documents Course Descriptions Degree Audit Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Elective Prerequisites for Juris Doctor Field Placement Program Juris Doctor Degree Requirements Professional Tracks & Special Distinctions for J.D. Students Schedule Planner for J.D. Students Exams FERPA Grade Deadlines Graduation Office of Access and Learning Accommodation(OALA) Official Transcript Professional Development Program Professional Development Videos Registration Add/Drop Course & Final Exam Schedules Student Financial Services Tuition & Fees Law Financial Aid Counseling University Financial Aid Office Parking & Transportation Pay Your Bill Scholarship Criteria Study Abroad Transfer Credit Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback ABA Required Disclosures FERPA Policies Honor Code Notice of Non-Discrimination Student Conduct Policy Comments and Concerns Submit Your Comments & Concerns Practice Court Online Attendance Request Form Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Announcements John William & Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series 2022 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2022 Student Awards 2021 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2021 Student Awards 2020 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2020 Student Awards Student Opportunities Competitions Internal Competitions External Competitions Competition Results Policies and Forms The Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Courtcall Law School Award The Ultimate Writer Competition Student Organizations Event and Speaker Approval Form Study Abroad Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information