Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Veterans’ Concerns Veterans’ Concerns Expand all Collapse all Veterans' Concerns Team Renee Gibbs, Psychologist Renee joined Columbia Health in 2020 after nine years of psychology practice in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). At the VA, she provided treatment and led program development efforts in eating disorder treatment and training, including serving as the national lead trainer and consultant for the Eating Disorder Initiative. Renee’s additional work with Veterans has included multidisciplinary treatment for gender transition and gender dysphoria, program development for severe and persistence mental illness, and delivery and adaptations of dialectical behavior therapy. She is certified and well-versed in Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) for trauma. Michele Goldman, Psychologist Michele Goldman first began working with veterans during her postdoctoral fellowship at Hampton VA Medical Center in Virginia where she was trained specifically to work with survivors of military sexual trauma. She then became employed at Brooklyn VA Medical Center where her clinical work focused on treating co-occurring trauma and substance use disorders through individual, couples, and group therapy. Michele provided services to OEF/OIF/OND, Vietnam, and veterans of the Persian Gulf war who were survivors of combat trauma. While working at the VA, she assisted many students with the transition of returning to school and integrating into a primarily non-veteran community. David Hittson, Psychologist David spent three years training at Veterans Administration hospitals in New York City. While working at those hospitals, he aided veterans with a variety of concerns including adjustment to civilian life, medical issues, relationship problems, depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder. As a clinician, David is committed to aiding veterans as they navigate their academic, social, and personal efforts within the Columbia Community. Adam Johnson, Psychologist Adam first began working with veterans during his doctoral internship and postdoctoral fellowship at the Veterans Administration Caribbean Healthcare System in San Juan, Puerto Rico. In addition to providing therapy to individuals, couples, and groups, Adam has specialized experience in blind rehabilitation and hospice and palliative care, and in collaborating with primary care physicians to provide holistic health care. He has provided services to veterans facing trauma, combat, functional loss, rehabilitation, chronic health conditions, sexual and relationship concerns, and adjusting to civilian life. Adam has also provided services sensitive to the needs of veterans of color and the LGBTQ community. Yaniv Phillips, Senior Psychologist Yaniv served in the Israeli army before immigrating to New York. He brings experience and sensitivity to his work with military veterans, who sometimes grapple with the transition to civilian life, especially with traumas related to military service, as well as with a sense of otherness and the challenge of bridging their experiences in the military with their current lives as students among non-veteran peers. Marcia Stern, Senior Psychologist Marcia began working with veterans as a Summer Intern at the Brooklyn VA Medical Center where she treated veterans with combat trauma and other mental health issues. She comes to CPS from the Readjustment Counseling Service’s Vet Center program where she served as the Military Sexual Trauma Counselor. Marcia provided group and individual therapy to male and female veterans who were exposed to sexual trauma, discrimination based on gender or sexual identity, and combat. While at the Vet Center, she assisted many veterans struggling with the transition to college and graduate school. Support Groups Counseling and Psychological Services currently has several veteran specific virtual support groups. Please visit the Support Groups page for other available groups. Related Resources Columbia Office of Military and Veterans Affairs Columbia University Center for Veteran Transition and Integration Military and Veterans Affairs at Columbia U.S. Military Veterans of Columbia University Columbia Law School Military Association (CLSMA) Military in Business Association (MIBA) Columbia SIPA Veterans Association (CSVA) Health Unit Medical Services Veterans' Concerns Team Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close