Search Search Log In Register Toggle navigation Home About About SMST About IST What is M&S? Capabilities M&S Research Collection Contract Vehicles Brochure Academics Robotics Club UCF Programming Team Graduate Programs Vince and Beth Amico Scholarship IST Labs Lab Overview Advanced Research Computing Center (ARCC) Center for Research Administration Technologies and Applications (CRATA) ChronoPoints Cognitive Sciences E2i Creative Studio Human Performance Measurement at the MIT2 Lab Interactive Realities Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab (METIL) Realistic Assessment of Performance In Devices (RAPID) Lab SENSEable Design Lab Synthetic Reality (SREAL) Team Research and Adaptability in Complex Environments (TRACE) People Senior Leadership Team Faculty Administrative Staff Research Labs Seminars News Affiliates Jobs Contact Contact Us UCF Campus Map Home of Simulation & Training Research and Your Portal to Modeling & Simulation at the University of Central Florida. The Florida High Tech Corridor boasts of the highest concentration of simulation and training related activities in the nation. SMST's primary focus is on human-in-the-loop simulation and modeling of human activity. Other UCF departments focus on science-based simulation; we can help you find those appropriate for your needs. Learn More UCF Modeling & Simulation The Modeling and Simulation Graduate Program was initiated in 2001-2002 with directions from high university officials to create a multi-disciplinary program. Virtually all Modeling and Simulation graduate programs are part of computer science or engineering departments. Our program is currently drawing classes and faculty from a dozen or more academic units. Given that the field of Modeling and Simulation has grown so rapidly and in so many directions, the decision to make a multi-disciplinary program has proved to be the correct decision. The Program is largely administered through the School of Modeling, Simulation, and Training, and reports to the College of Graduate Studies. Learn More University of Central Florida’s Advanced Research Computing Center The UCF ARCC houses high performance computing (HPC) resources that are subsized by the UCF Provost and Vice President of Research and Commercialization for use in research by faculty (and their students) across the campus. In addition, advanced network capabilities exist and additional ones are being installed (a so-called "Science DMZ"). Learn More ❮ ❯ Coronavirus Updates: Click here for more information What's Happening SMST Director Dr. Grace Bochenek Selected to Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida University of Central Florida (UCF) School of Modeling, Simulation, and Training (SMST) Director, Dr. Grace Bochenek, was recently elected to the Academy of Science, Engineering, and Medicine of Florida (ASEMFL) for her contributions in modeling and simulation. Read More Apr. 20, 2022 UCF Celebrates New STARBASE Laboratory, Graduates at Ribbon Cutting The University of Central Florida School of Modeling and Simulation celebrated STARBASE Central Florida by hosting a ribbon cutting ceremony on April 12. The event coincided with the first graduation ceremony for 61 students who completed the program. Read More Apr. 13, 2022 U.S. Cyber Command Selects UCF For Academic Engagement Network The United States Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM) selected the University of Central Florida’s (UCF) School of Modeling, Simulation and Training (SMST) to join its Academic Engagement Network (AEN) with USCYBERCOM. The network is focused on alleviating the nation’s cybersecurity workforce shortages. Read More Apr. 06, 2022 Study Finds Parents’ Social Media Use Is Associated With Parenting Style Mary Jean Amon, an assistant professor in the School of Modeling, Simulation, and Training, is part of a team of researchers who published a study that discovered that parents who share photos of their children regularly have more permissive, confident parenting styles. See what else they learned from the study. Read More Mar. 24, 2022 $1 Million Grant to help Strengthen UCF’s Modeling and Simulation Program A national grant helps position UCF as a leader in educating and training the workforce of tomorrow through the School of Modeling, Simulation and Training. Read More Jan. 26, 2022 Research Associate Professor Glenn Martin Awarded Jump Start Fund Research associate professor and lab director of Interactive Realities Laboratory Glenn Martin was awarded for his project to enhance the Stokes High-Performance Computing Cluster, upgrading access to computational science research on campus and supporting cross-campus general-purpose research computing. Read More Oct. 21, 2021 About SMST The School of Modeling, Simulation, and Training (SMST) was established by the University of Central Florida (UCF) in 2018 to formally recognize the exceptional growth and success of the Institute for Simulation & Training (IST) and its Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Graduate Program. Our mission is to conduct cutting-edge human-centered simulation research and execute a world-class transdisciplinary graduate program to create leaders in modeling, simulation, and training. The Institute Founded in 1982, IST is an internationally-recognized interdisciplinary research institute within SMST that conducts basic and applied research in the art and science of modeling, simulation, and training. IST partners with public and private stakeholders to apply and develop simulations for diverse applications and actively supports the university's modeling and simulation education initiative through SMST’s graduate program. Learn More The Graduate Program SMST houses a series of interdisciplinary graduate degree programs in modeling and simulation, designed primarily for students with backgrounds in STEM who wish to pursue careers in any number of fields, including academia, government, defense, entertainment, technology, service, and manufacturing. Learn More IST, School of Modeling, Simulation, and Training 3100 Technology Pkwy Orlando, FL 32826 (407) 882-1300 University of Central Florida - Main Campus 4000 Central Florida Blvd Orlando, FL 32816 (407) 823-2000 Home About Graduate Research Labs Events Affiliates Jobs Contact © 2022 IST, School of Modeling, Simulation, and Training