Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Psychology and Neuroscience Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Psychology is the scientific study of how and why people think, feel, and behave as they do. Psychology focuses on understanding basic functions such as memory, emotion, visual perception, social interaction, development and learning, and problem solving and creativity, as well as on alterations to these functions in psychopathology, developmental disorders, or neurological disorders. Faculty in our department approach these topics from multiple, converging levels, using assessments of individual behavior, dynamic group interactions, and investigations of the neural processes and computations that give rise to behavior. Our courses embody the philosophy of Boston College’s liberal arts education, providing students the opportunity for intellectual growth and a deeper understanding of the scientific method as applied to the human condition. Our courses also provide the knowledge and tools necessary for students to prepare for graduate training. The Department of Psychology and Neuroscience offers three majors: the Psychology Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) major, the Psychology Bachelor of Science (B.S.) major, and the Neuroscience Bachelor of Science (B.S.) major. All three degree options introduce students to the broad range of topics that psychologists study, while also allowing students to choose an individualized course of study and focus on some aspects of psychology in greater depth. Each option allows students to gain research experience working in one or more of our labs. The Psychology B.A. and the Psychology B.S. majors are particularly suited to students who wish to understand human behavior and mental function. Students will take Psychology courses relevant to social, developmental, biological, and cognitive psychology and will learn how animal models can be used to inform human behavior. Together these courses will provide students with an appreciation for the theories that have been put forth to explain human behavior and for the importance of considering clinical, cultural, social, biological, and developmental factors when trying to understand why humans think, feel, and act as they do. Both degree options introduce students to the broad range of topics that psychologists study, while also allowing students to choose an individualized course of study and focus on some aspects of psychology in greater depth. The Psychology B.S. is a research-focused track. Students interested in psychology as it relates to other scientific disciplines and/or who are planning to pursue research-focused graduate work (e.g., Ph.D., M.D.) are encouraged to select the B.S. major. B.S. students will take courses in Psychology and choose from elective corequisites in departments including Economics, Computer Science, Biology, Chemistry, and Physics. Together these courses will provide students with an in-depth understanding of the scientific study of the human mind and with opportunities for exposure to hands-on, laboratory science. This major is well-suited for students interested in a research-based approach to psychology. For students who are more likely to pursue graduate work without a focus on research (e.g., social work, law, Psy.D., Ed.D.) and/or would like greater flexibility in their course schedule, the B.A. may be more appropriate. The Neuroscience B.S. is a research-focused degree for students who are interested in understanding the biological basis of brain function in relation to thought and behavior. The major has co-requisites in Biology and Chemistry as well as elective natural science corequisites and emphasizes exposure to hands-on, laboratory science. Students will take courses that are related to evolution, genetics, physiology, neurobiology, and the neural basis of higher cognitive and emotional processes in humans. Together these courses will provide students with a strong foundation in the neurobiological processes that underlie behavior, motivation, and cognition. The Neuroscience major covers many of the pre-medical requirements. Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Faculty Psychology and Neuroscience Website Print Open All Close All Requirements for Psychology B.A. Majors Requirements for Psychology B.A. Majors Students must take a minimum of 33 credits, including the following required courses. PSYC1110 and PSYC1111 should be taken in either order as early as possible. PSYC1120 and PSYC1121 (or a research practicum) should be taken sequentially and in the sophomore year when possible. PSYC1110 Brain, Mind, and Behavior (3 credits) PSYC1111 Self, Mind, and Society (formerly Introduction to Psychology as a Social Science) (3 credits) PSYC1120 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research I (3 credits) Either of the following courses (3 credits): PSYC1121 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research II Any Research Practicum Three 2000-level courses, including at least one course from three of the following five areas (9 credits): Biological: PSYC2285 Behavioral Neuroscience or PSYC2289 Comparative Psychology: Study of Animal Behavior Cognitive: PSYC2272 Cognitive Psychology: Mental Processes and their Neural Substrates or PSYC2274 Sensation and Perception Developmental: PSYC2260 Developmental Psychology or PSYC2262 Baby Talk Psychopathology: PSYC2234 Introduction to Psychopathology (formerly Abnormal Psychology) Social and Personality: PSYC2241 Social Psychology, PSYC2242 Personality Theories, or PSYC2245 Psychology of Motivation Four additional Psychology courses (15 credits): three courses numbered PSYC3000 or higher, and one numbered PSYC2000 or higher. Courses numbered PSYC4000–4199 are not eligible. Requirements for Psychology B.S. Majors Requirements for Psychology B.S. Majors Students must take a minimum of 54 credits, including the following required courses: 36 Credits within the Department PSYC1110 Brain, Mind, and Behavior (3 credits) PSYC1111 Self, Mind, and Society (formerly Introduction to Psychology as a Social Science) (3 credits) PSYC1120 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research I (3 credits) Any Research Practicum (3 credits) Three 2000-level courses, including at least one course from three of the following five areas (9 credits): Biological: PSYC2285 Behavioral Neuroscience or PSYC2289 Comparative Psychology: Study of Animal Behavior Cognitive: PSYC2272 Cognitive Psychology: Mental Processes and their Neural Substrates or PSYC2274 Sensation and Perception Developmental: PSYC2260 Developmental Psychology or PSYC2262 Baby Talk Psychopathology: PSYC2234 to Introduction to Psychopathology (formerly Abnormal Psychology) Social and Personality: PSYC2241 Social Psychology, PSYC2242 Personality Theories, or PSYC2245 Psychology of Motivation Five additional Psychology courses (15 credits): four courses numbered PSYC3000 or higher, and one numbered PSYC2000 or higher. Courses numbered PSYC4000–4199 are not eligible. 18 Related Science Credits Two of the following courses (6 or more credits): CSCI1101 Computer Programming I (recommended) MATH1004 Finite Probability and Applications MATH1100 Calculus I MATH2210 Linear Algebra 12 additional science credits from the following: Biology courses numbered BIOL2000 or higher, excluding BIOL2040 Computer Science courses numbered CSCI1102 or higher Math courses numbered MATH1100 or higher Physics courses numbered PHYS1500 or higher CHEM1105 Chemistry and Society I CHEM1106 Chemistry and Society II CHEM1109 General Chemistry I with Lab (CHEM1111) CHEM1110 General Chemistry II with Lab (CHEM1112) ECON2201 (or ECON2203) Microeconomic Theory ECON3305 Market Design ECON3308 Game Theory in Economics ECON3312 Evolutionary Economics LING2379 Language and Ethnicity LING3101 General Linguistics LING3102 Syntax and Semantics LING3103 Language and Language Types LING3104 Formalism and Functionalism in Linguistics LING3362 Language in Society LING3378 Second Language Acquisition Only one of the following Psychology laboratory courses: PSYC2205 Undergraduate Research PSYC4490 Senior Thesis I PSYC4495 Senior Honors Thesis I PSYC4497 Scholars Project Research For all B.S. students, participation in research in a laboratory setting (e.g., enrolling in Senior Thesis) is strongly recommended. Requirements for Neuroscience B.S. Majors Requirements for Neuroscience B.S. Majors Students must take a minimum of 57 credits, including the following required courses. Foundation (24 Credits) PSYC1110 Introduction to Brain, Mind, and Behavior (3 credits) Either PSYC2272 Cognitive Psychology: Mental Processes and their Neural Substrates (3 credits) or PSYC2274 Sensation and Perception (3 credits) BIOL2000 Molecules and Cells (3 credits) CHEM1109 General Chemistry I with lab (4 credits) or CHEM1117 Honors Modern Chemistry I with lab (4 credits) CHEM1110 General Chemistry II with lab (4 credits) or CHEM1118 Honors Modern Chemistry II with lab (4 credits) MATH1100 Calculus I (4 credits) or MATH1102 Calculus I (Math and Science Majors) (4 credits) Any one of the following courses (3 credits): PSYC2285 Behavioral Neuroscience BIOL4540 Neuroscience BIOL4590 Introduction to Neuroscience Computation (6 Credits) Any one of the following courses: PSYC1120 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research I BIOL2300 Biostatistics MATH3353 Statistics MATH4427 Mathematical Statistics SOCY2200 Statistics Any one of the following courses: PSYC1121 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research II PSYC3317 Topics in Machine Intelligence: Biomedical Image Analysis CSCI1101 Computer Science I CSCI1102 Computer Science II CSCI2227 Introduction to Scientific Computation MATH1101 Calculus II, MATH1103 Calculus II (Math and Science Majors) or MATH1105 Calculus II-AP (Math and Science Majors) MATH2210 Linear Algebra A PSYC Research Practicum (cannot be double counted to fulfill Praxis requirement) Cognitive Neuroscience (3 Credits) Any one of the following courses: PSYC3317 Topics in Machine Intelligence: Biomedical Image Analysis PSYC3338 Topics in Psychopathology PSYC3370 Nudge Psychology PSYC3371 Cognitive Neuroscience PSYC3372 Affective Neuroscience PSYC3373 Learning and Motivation PSYC3374 Cognitive Aging PSYC3375 Psychology and Neuroscience of Human Memory PSYC3378 Vision PSYC3379 Disorders of Language and Communication PSYC3391 Ethical Controversies in Psychology & Neuroscience PSYC3397 Cognitive and Neural Bases of Person Knowledge PSYC4446 Social Neuroscience PSYC4472 fMRI PSYC4476 Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory PSYC5570 Advanced Topics in Cognitive Neuroscience PSYC5571 Controversies in Cognitive Neuroscience PSYC5572 Advanced Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory PSYC5573 Advanced Topics in the Neuroscience of Memory PSYC5574 Neuroscience of Sensation and Perception PSYC5575 Advanced Affective Neuroscience Systems Neuroscience (3 Credits) Any one of the following courses: BIOL4450 Behavioral Ecology PSYC3329 Psychophysiology of Stress PSYC3376 Developmental Neuroscience PSYC3381 Psychobiology of Emotional Learning PSYC3383 Neurobiological Basis of Learning and Memory PSYC3384 Neurophysiology PSYC3385 Neurobiology of Motivation and Emotion PSYC3386 Psychopharmacology PSYC3388 Neurobiology of Eating and Eating Disorders PSYC3390 Neurobiology of Psychiatric Disorders PSYC3392 Neuroscience of Addiction PSYC5585 Brain Systems: Motivation and Emotion PSYC5587 Cellular Perspectives on Motivated Behavior Electives (18 Credits, excluding laboratory credits) Any six courses from the following: Courses listed in the Cognitive Neuroscience and Systems Neuroscience clusters above (a course cannot double-count for both the cluster and elective requirements.) Biology courses numbered BIOL3000 or higher Chemistry courses numbered CHEM2000 or higher Physics courses numbered PHYS1500 or higher CSCI3341 Artificial Intelligence CSCI3343 Computer Vision CSCI3345 Machine Learning Praxis (3 credits) Any one of the following courses: PSYC2205 Undergraduate Research* PSYC2206 Independent Study* PSYC4101 Research Practicum in Human and Artificial Intelligence PSYC4170 Research Practicum in Cognitive Psychology PSYC4171 Research Practicum in Experimental Psychology PSYC4173 Research Practicum in Judgment and Decision-Making PSYC4174 Research Practicum in Sensory Psychology PSYC4177 Research Practicum in Cognitive Neuroscience PSYC4179 Research Practicum in Neurogastronomy PSYC4180 Research Practicum in Behavioral Neuroscience PSYC4473 Event-Related Potentials PSYC4490 Senior Thesis I* PSYC4491 Senior Thesis II* PSYC4495 Senior Honors Thesis I* PSYC4496 Senior Honors Thesis II* PSYC5576 Methods in Human Brain Mapping *Students may conduct research with any faculty member, including those conducting neuroscience research outside of the department. Projects should have significant neuroscience components, and course proposals are subject to review by the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Advanced Placement Advanced Placement A student who has earned AP credit by scoring a four or five on an Advanced Placement exam may substitute the exam for a relevant course, according to the following list. Psychology: Either PSYC1110 or PSYC1111. Students making this substitution are required to take an additional Psychology course. For Psychology B.A. and B.S. majors, this course must be a Psychology course numbered 2000 or higher. For Neuroscience majors, this course must be from the Cognitive Neuroscience or Systems Neuroscience clusters. Biology: BIOL2000 Molecules and Cells. Calculus AB: MATH1100 Calculus I Calculus BC: MATH1100 Calculus I and MATH1101 Calculus II Statistics: We generally do not give major credit for the Statistics exam. A student can petition the Director of Undergraduate Studies for credit for PSYC1120. Senior Thesis Senior Thesis Students in all three majors may choose to write a thesis during the senior year. In most cases, the thesis will involve original, empirical research, although theoretical papers will also be permitted. Students must obtain the consent of a faculty member to serve as their thesis advisor. Those who are interested in writing a thesis are encouraged to participate in an Independent Study with a prospective thesis advisor during the junior year to develop a thesis proposal. Seniors who are engaged in writing a thesis may enroll in PSYC4490 in the fall and/or PSYC4491 in the spring. Only one semester may count as an elective to fulfill a major requirement. Students who plan to write a thesis are advised to complete PSYC1120 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research I and either PSYC1121 Introduction to Behavioral Statistics and Research II or a Research Practicum before their senior year. Students whose theses are judged to be of exceptional merit will receive a note that their “Senior thesis passed with distinction.” This is kept on file in the department but not noted on transcripts. Clinical Concentration Clinical Concentration The Concentration in Clinical Psychology is designed for majors with a particular interest in careers in clinical or counseling psychology or clinical social work. The concentration lays a solid foundation in coursework, research, and field experiences to help students decide whether they wish to apply to a graduate program and obtain licensure to practice in a clinical field. To complete the clinical concentration, students must satisfy their major requirements and some additional course requirements. A complete description of the concentration, along with a listing of the additional required courses, is available on the department’s website: go to the Undergraduate section, click Academic Opportunities, and click Concentration in Clinical Psychology. Contact the concentration advisor, Karen Rosen, for additional information. Honors Program Honors Program The Psychology Honors Program offers students in our majors an excellent opportunity to get involved in research. The program is for students with strong academic records who wish to devote a substantial amount of time in their senior year to a senior honors thesis. Students who are eligible to participate in the Psychology Honors Program receive a letter from the Honors Program Director at the beginning of their junior year. Students who meet or exceed the GPA requirement, in Psychology and overall, will be invited to join the Honors Program. The Honors Program requires a GPA of 3.6. Students must identify a faculty member in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience who is willing to supervise them in their work. Students then need to complete a preliminary application by November 1 of their junior year. On this application, they need to indicate the issue or topic they would like to investigate in their honors thesis and the name of the faculty member who has agreed to advise them. The principal requirement of the Honors Program is the completion of the honors thesis. During their senior year, students should enroll in PSYC4495-4496 Senior Honors Thesis I and II. In addition, students in the Honors Program are required to take one additional upper-level course (5000-level or above). One semester of the Senior Honors Thesis course (PSYC4495) may count toward the major requirements. The second semester of the Senior Honors Thesis course (PSYC4496) and the 5000-level course are taken in addition to the courses required for the majors. Therefore, students in the Honors Program will have completed two courses in Psychology beyond the basic major requirements. For further information about the requirements of the Honors Program, distinctions between the MCAS Honors and Psychology Honors Programs, and what to do if you are planning to study abroad, visit our website or contact the Director of the Honors Program, Karen Rosen. Study Abroad Study Abroad Psychology and Neuroscience majors should arrange an appointment with their advisor for permission to study abroad. Students should meet with the Director of Undergraduate Studies for permission to apply courses taken abroad towards meeting major requirements. These decisions about international study are made on a case-by case basis. Approval should be obtained before the start of the study abroad program. Fifth Year M.A. Program Fifth Year M.A. Program The Fifth Year M.A. program allows selected students to earn both a B.A. or B.S. in Psychology or in Neuroscience and an M.A. in Psychology in five years. The purpose of the program is to give students a greater opportunity for concentrated study and research training. Such training is excellent preparation for application to a Ph.D. program in any area of psychology. The Fifth Year M.A. program is limited to Boston College undergraduates who are majoring in Psychology or Neuroscience, and the fifth year must follow immediately after the fourth. The Department of Psychology and Neuroscience has the following areas of concentration. Visit our website for additional information on these areas. Behavioral Neuroscience Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Social Psychology Developmental Psychology Quantitative and Computational Psychology Fifth Year B.A./M.S.W. Program Fifth Year B.A./M.S.W. Program This program is available only to Psychology B.A. majors. In cooperation with the Graduate School of Social Work, the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience offers a dual five-year master’s degree program for those students who have decided upon a career in social work. Students in this program complete their undergraduate requirements including those for the Psychology B.A. major during their first four years. In addition, in their junior year students begin to take Social Work courses. Upon successful completion of all undergraduate requirements, students receive the B.A. after their senior year at which time they are formally enrolled in the Graduate School of Social Work. Upon successful completion of all graduate requirements at the end of the fifth year, students are awarded the M.S.W. Students apply for admission to the five-year program during their sophomore year. Contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies for more information. Faculty Advisement Faculty Advisement All majors should seek faculty advisement prior to each registration period. Faculty members provide expanded office hours during these periods. Students interested in studying abroad should seek the consent of their advisor. Majors who do not have an academic advisor (e.g., majors in their first year of study or recent transfer students) should consult with the Director of Undergraduate Studies prior to registration. University Core Requirements University Core Requirements PSYC courses numbered between 1010 and 1111 fulfill University Core requirements. PSYC1110 Brain, Mind, and Behavior is a Natural Science Core course. All other Core courses in this department (e.g., PSYC1032 or PSYC1111) are Social Science Core courses. Students receiving a four or five on the Psychology AP exam have fulfilled half of the Social Science Core requirement. Prerequisites Prerequisites Course prerequisites are listed with each course description. If none is listed, the course has no prerequisites. Guide to Psychology Course Numbering Guide to Psychology Course Numbering PSYC1000–PSYC1009: Courses that do not satisfy the Social Science Core requirement and do not provide credit toward completion of the major. PSYC1010–PSYC1099: Core courses that satisfy the Social Science Core requirement but do not provide credit toward completion of the major. PSYC1110–PSYC1111: Courses that satisfy the Social Science Core requirement and also provide credit toward completion of the Psychology and Neuroscience majors. PSYC1112–PSYC1119: Introductory, one-credit courses. PSYC1120–PSYC1999: Introductory, statistical, and methodological courses. PSYC2000–PSYC2999: Introductions to primary subdisciplines of psychology, serving as prerequisites to more advanced courses. PSYC3000–PSYC3999: More advanced and/or specialized courses requiring one or more 2000-level courses as prerequisites. PSYC4000–PSYC4099: Research Practicum courses that do not count toward completion of Psychology major electives or the Neuroscience Praxis requirement. PSYC4100–PSYC4199: Research Practicum courses that do not count toward completion of Psychology major electives but can be used for the Neuroscience Praxis requirement. PSYC4200–PSYC4999: Advanced seminars in various areas of psychology. PSYC5000–PSYC5999: Seminars open to advanced undergraduates and graduate students. PSYC6000 and above: Graduate-level courses. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College