Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Orthopaedics Fellowship Programs Foot and Ankle Fellowship Foot and Ankle Fellowship The goal of Brown's Foot and Ankle Fellowship Program is to offer a well-rounded, comprehensive training program in the operative and non-operative care of the foot and ankle. The Foot and Ankle Fellow is considered an integral part of our service, and will receive in-depth exposure to all aspects of foot and ankle pathology, including both the common and complex disorders which present to our tertiary medical center and Level 1 trauma center. Time will be equally split between surgical and clinical activities, and the Fellow will be expected to participate in the education of medical students and Orthopaedic residents who rotate on service. Ample time will be permitted for involvement in weekly didactics, which include conferences, anatomy dissection, journal club, and quality improvement. The Fellow will also be encouraged to pursue a research interest of his or her liking, and at least one published paper, resulting from this research, is required for completion of our program. Faculty Brad Blankenhorn, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Director, Foot and Ankle Fellowship Dr. Blankenhorn specializes in the treatment of common and complex disorders of the foot and ankle. His practice focuses on reconstructive surgery for deformity and degeneration in the foot and ankle, as well as the treatment of acute and subacute traumatic injuries to the foot and ankle. Dr. Blankenhorn has experience in the treatment of arthritic conditions of the foot and ankle, including joint fusions and total ankle replacements. His practice also includes the arthroscopic treatment of traumatic, arthritic, and sports related injuries of the foot and ankle. Dr. Blankenhorn received his medical degree from the University of Pittsburgh, and also holds a Master of Science degree in Bioengineering from The Pennsylvania State University. He completed an orthopaedic residency at Brown University, and fellowships in Orthopaedic Trauma at Brown University and Foot and Ankle Surgery at the University of Utah. His research interests include the normal and pathologic biomechanics of the foot and ankle as well as the biomechanics of fracture fixation in the ankle and total ankle arthroplasty. Dr. Blankenhorn is a member of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Orthopaedic Trauma Association, and the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society. He is a Board Certified Orthopaedic Surgeon with the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgeons. Raymond Hsu, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Hsu specializes in the disorders of the foot and ankle. He treats acute traumatic injuries including fractures, cartilage injuries, ligament sprains, and tendon tears. He also treats chronic conditions such as arthritis, deformity, and other sequelae of old injuries. He is trained and experienced in orthopedic trauma in general, but his particular interest is in the repair and reconstruction of the foot and ankle. Dr. Hsu graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia and received his medical degree from Cornell University in New York City. He completed his orthopedic residency at Brown University, where he also completed a fellowship in orthopedic trauma. He completed another fellowship dedicated to foot and ankle surgery at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City. Dr. Hsu’s research interests include the impact of lower extremity fractures in the elderly population, biomechanics of fracture fixation, efficient resource utilization in orthopedics, occupational radiation exposure for surgeons, and appropriate use of advanced imaging in foot and ankle patients. He is involved with medical student education at the Brown Alpert Medical School as a Doctoring Mentor for first and second year students and as a Specialty Career Advisor for third and fourth year students. He serves as an Associate Editor for CME for the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery as well as a journal reviewer for the leading journals in orthopedic trauma and foot and ankle surgery. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons and Board Certified by the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgeons. He is a member of the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society and the Orthopaedic Trauma Association. Mostafa Abousayed, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Abousayed is a board-eligible orthopedic surgeon subspecialized in foot and ankle surgery. He enjoys treating all foot and ankle conditions including fractures, sports-related injuries, tendon disorders, bunions, lesser toe deformities, and foot and ankle arthritis, with special interest in total ankle replacement. He is a member of the American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society (AOFAS), American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS), and the American Medical Association. Dr. Abousayed grew up in Egypt. He received his medical degree from Cairo University. He completed his orthopedic residency at Albany Medical College in Albany. He then spent a year-long fellowship dedicated to foot and ankle surgery at Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore. Learn more: Why Brown? Rhode Island Fellows YEAR FELLOW BIO 2021 -2022 Motasem Salameh, MD Dr. Salameh is a Jordanian doctor born and raised in the city of Amman. He graduated from medical school, the University of Jordan in 2013. Dr. Salameh completed his post graduate training in Orthopedic Surgery at Hamad medical corporation ACGME-I accredited program in Doha, Qatar. During his 4th year of residency Dr. Salameh completed an AOtrauma fellowship at Denver Health, Colorado, USA. Motasem has received several local research funds and awards in research innovation. He is currently a member of the Editorial board for the European Journal of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, with special interest in Orthopaedic trauma and foot and ankle surgery with more than 20 peer reviewed publications in this field. Year Fellow Current position 2013-2014 Scott VanValkenburg, MD Upstate Orthopedics, East Syracuse, NY 2012-2013 Todd Fellars, MD Naval Medical Center, San Diego, CA 2011-2012 Julie M. Johnson, MD Desert Orthopedic Center, Palm Springs, CA 2009-2010 Mark Drakos, MD Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY 2008-2009 Nicole Arcand, MD Orthopedic Partners, North Franklin, CT 2007-2008 Paul Kerner, MD EmergeOrtho, Raleigh, NC 2006-2007 Anthony P. Mechrefe, MD Ortho Rhode Island, Warwick, RI 2005-2006 Adam Brodsky, MD Orthopaedic Surgery & Sports Medicine, Stamford, CT Program Details The Foot and Ankle Fellow is involved on a daily basis with the faculty in the office, clinic, and OR settings. He or she also maintains independent admitting and operating privileges, and is provided ample time each week for both independent research and surgical time, if needed, to suit particular interests. The fellow is expected to run the busy day to day foot and ankle service with the resident, and conduct weekly didactic conferences on varying topics which include operative and non-operative foot care, indications, trauma, reconstruction, and diagnostic imaging. Salary is competitive with the typical Post Graduate Year 6 (PGY6) range. Full health care benefits are provided. The fellowship year is from August 1 to July 31 of the following year. Two weeks of vacation are provided along with one week of leave for an academic conference, and some flexibility is available should job interview requirements arise. Call is performed in unison with the faculty members. Application Process Applications for the Brown foot and ankle fellowship follow the procedure outlined by the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society. We abide by the AOFAS foot and ankle match Code of Conduct. Interviews for the 2023-2024 year will be held virtually in the afternoons of December 3, 2021, January 7, 2022, and February 4, 2022. All applicants should register and apply for the Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle Match on the San Francisco Match website (www.sfmatch.org). The Brown Foot and Ankle Fellowship utilizes the centralized application process from the San Francisco Match website, which includes the following components: • Application Form • Personal Statement • Curriculum Vitae • Three letters of reference (one of which must be from your residency director) Contacts Brad Blankenhorn, MD Rhode Island Hospital Department of Orthopaedics 2 Dudley Street Providence, RI 02905 Phone: 401-330-1430 Fax: 401-277-0799 Fellowship Coordinator Audrey Bell [email protected] Phone: 401-457-1567 Fax: 401-457-2198 Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Foot and Ankle Hand Pediatrics Shoulder Elbow Spine Sports Medicine Trauma Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics