Skip to main content Search Giving Contact Make a Gift Cullen College of Engineering Industrial Engineering Main menu About Message from the Chair Mission Donors UH Calendar Open Positions Contact Us People Faculty Staff Ph.D. Students Student Organizations Advisory Board Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Research Labs Centers and Consortia Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations Undergraduate Overview Accreditation Admissions Degree Plan Advising Scholarships BSIE/MBA Accelerated B.S./M.S. Graduate Overview Degree Programs Admissions Degree Requirements Advising Graduate Scholarships Graduate Tuition Fellowships (GTF) Graduate Forms CPT/OPT Guidelines Certificate Program Resources Job Openings FAQs Online Programs UH-Extend Online IE Graduate Programs Online Programs at the Cullen College News News IE Newsletter UH Industrial Engineering We are devising novel engineered systems that integrate humans, machines, and information technologies to enhance products, services, quality, efficiency, and resilience. With a focus in our academic programs on medicine, health, energy, security, operations optimization, and supply chains, an IE scholar is well prepared for future societal global challenges. Be part of UH IE. UH Industrial Engineering We are devising novel engineered systems that integrate humans, machines, and information technologies to enhance products, services, quality, efficiency, and resilience. With a focus in our academic programs on medicine, health, energy, security, operations optimization, and supply chains, an IE scholar is well prepared for future societal global challenges. Be part of UH IE. MASTER'S IN ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT The Department of Industrial Engineering at the Cullen College of Engineering offers a fully online graduate degree program in Engineering Management (MEMGMT). Learn More Research Excellence Healthcare and Medical Decision Making An important aspect of healthcare is analyzing how decisions are made, when they’re made, and who they’re made by. The complexities of this are often… Learn more Community Resilience and Homeland Security As more and more of the world urbanizes, it is important to make sure that production chains are protected. IE at the University of Houston has a… Learn more Energy and Power Systems A modern city is only as strong as its energy grid, the literal fuel that gets everything else to “go.” Researchers at the Cullen College of… Learn more Reliability and Maintenance State of the art technology has state of the art needs. Students at UH learn how to create with the latest tech, and then, how to maintain it too.… Learn more Logistics, Transportation and Supply Chain Our world is now built on interconnected links of supply and demand, of multi-purpose corporations providing a wide variety of goods and services.… Learn more Advanced Manufacturing Most goods can now be created with a dizzying amount of materials, with finishes and alloys of all properties. Learn the proper decision-making and… Learn more Data Analytics How do you maximize efficiency for your newly established supply chain? How can you properly weigh maintenance vs. replacement? Data must be… Learn more View Faculty By Research Area Prospective Students Learn More Current Students Learn More In The News Cullen recognizes efforts of faculty, students with 2021-22 Excellence Awards College mourns the passing of Gerri Snider ME, IE grad programs improve in latest U.S. News & World Report rankings More News Alumni News College mourns the passing of Gerri Snider EAA recognizes 50 students for academic achievements, leadership Alum Santos promoted to Distinguished Service Professor at Binghamton More Alumni News Upcoming Seminars (no upcoming seminar) More Seminars Announcements Erick C. Jones Named Distinguished Alumni at UH EAA 2021 Gala De Aldecoa Bueno Honored with Entrepreneur/Innovator Award at UH EAA Gala More Announcements Course Schedule Learn More IE Job Openings Learn More Fast Facts Top 50 PROGRAM 12 FULL TIME FACULTY 325 STUDENTS ENROLLED COVID-19 UPDATES Contact University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering Department of Industrial Engineering Engineering Building 2, Room E206 4222 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, TX 77204-4008 Phone: 713-743-4180 Contact Us Quick Links About People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Programs News MAKE A GIFT ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. UH Home Academic Calendar Campus Maps Emergency UH System Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies About Message from the Chair Mission Donors UH Calendar Open Positions Contact Us People Faculty Staff Ph.D. Students Student Organizations Advisory Board Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Research Labs Centers and Consortia Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations Undergraduate Overview Accreditation Admissions Degree Plan Advising Scholarships BSIE/MBA Accelerated B.S./M.S. Graduate Overview Degree Programs Admissions Degree Requirements Advising Graduate Scholarships Graduate Tuition Fellowships (GTF) Graduate Forms CPT/OPT Guidelines Certificate Program Resources Job Openings FAQs Online Programs UH-Extend Online IE Graduate Programs Online Programs at the Cullen College News News IE Newsletter