Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Current Students Career Development Career Development Career Planning eLearning Platform for All Graduate Students With over 80 hours of on-demand videos, Aurora includes interviews with over 170 PhDs who have successfully launched careers in industry, non-profits, government, and higher education. This is a one-of-a-kind resource for graduate students. Through two programs of study (professional and faculty), you will be empowered to make informed decisions about your career path and learn successful job search strategies from other PhDs. Log Into Aurora Other SMU Resources The Hegi Family Career Development Center at SMU is dedicated to serving the needs of SMU students and assisting employers in reaching qualified SMU candidates. On the Hegi Center website, you can access Handshake to find jobs and internships as well as professional development and employer engagement events on campus, schedule career-counseling appointments, and learn about drop-in appointments. External Resources IMAGINEPHD: A free online career exploration and planning tool for PhD students and postdoctoral scholars in the humanities and social sciences. Beyond the Professoriate: Resources to help PhDs and grad students land jobs in: industry, non-profit, higher education administration, faculty, and the private sector. Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share