Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Student Health Services Menu Search TTU Student Health Services Submit Covid-19 Vaccine Submit Covid-19 Vaccine COVID-19 VACCINATION INCENTIVES Texas Tech University is strongly encouraging all students, faculty, and staff to get vaccinated against COVID-19. The delta variant is spreading across our city and the country and the best way to protect your health and the health of others is to get vaccinated. These vaccinations have been found to reduce the severity of COVID-19 and help to minimize transmission of the virus. There are three vaccines available here in the United States and they include the two-dose Pfizer and Moderna vaccines along with the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine. You can learn more about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and through this video from Dr. David Edwards of Texas Tech Student Health and the Texas Tech Health Sciences Center. In an effort to get more members of our university community fully vaccinated, Texas Tech is offering an incentives program for current students, faculty, and staff that are fully vaccinated. The first drawing will be held on Sept. 15 to allow time for you to obtain your vaccination. If you have already been vaccinated, you can begin the entry process now. The university will be hosting campus vaccination clinics or you can receive your vaccine through your physician or your local pharmacy. HOW TO ENTER THE WEEKLY DRAWINGS Students For students to register, they must upload a copy of their CDC issued vaccination card (or appropriate documentation if received abroad) to Student Health Services just as you would other university required vaccinations such as MMR and Meningitis. Please use this link to submit your vaccination card. Please note: you are not required to pay $10 to submit your vaccine care. When you see the “Ready to submit your documentation?” message, scroll down the page and click the grey button “No, thank you. I do not want to access my documents later.” pictured below. PRIZES Weekly Prizes for Students Drawing Date Prizes Available/Description Sept. 15 50/$250 Texas Tech Campus Store Gift Cards Sept. 22 50/$250 TTU Dining Bucks Sept. 29 50/$250 Student Scholarship Award Oct. 6 40/$500 Student Scholarship Award Oct. 13 30/$1,000 Student Scholarship Award Final Week Prizes Drawing Date Prizes Available/Description Oct. 20 20/$3000 Student Scholarship Award Oct. 20 10/Non-reserved parking space in Flint Avenue Garage for Fall ‘21 and Spring ‘22 FAQs What is the purpose of the Vaccine Incentive Program? This program is meant to incentivize those campus members who have not received the COVID-19 vaccine although all vaccinated members are eligible for the drawing. We respect the choice of those members of our community who can't or are choosing not to be vaccinated. When does the program start and end? The first drawing will take place on September 15 and the final drawing will take place on October 20. To be eligible for the final drawing, you must submit your CDC issued vaccination card that shows you have received both doses of the Pfizer and or Moderna vaccines or the single-dose Johnson & Johnson no later than 5:00 pm October 15. Am I required to participate? No, this is not a requirement; however, only those who are vaccinated participants will be eligible to win a prize. I cannot find my vaccine record, what should I do? If you misplaced your Vaccination Card after receiving your vaccine through Texas Health, you can get your COVID-19 vaccine record in several ways. These include: MyChart or the Health Information Management Department at Texas Health. If you received your vaccine through Texas Health or another provider, you may also get your vaccine record through ImmTrac. We are unable to recreate a Vaccination Card. Download step-by-step instructions on the different ways you can get proof of vaccination. Can I upload a picture of my COVID-19 Vaccine Card as proof of my vaccine? Yes, your card, is your vaccination record. Please make sure that the picture you upload is legible and clear. Will my vaccination record be stored? If you are a student, your record will be stored in our HIPAA protected immunization system that we use to store all immunization records. If you are an employee who is randomly selected to win a prize, your vaccination card is verified in person when you pick up your prize. I received my vaccine months/weeks ago, am I eligible to participate? Yes, anyone who has received both doses of the Pfizer and or Moderna vaccines or the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine is eligible to participate. If you received a vaccination abroad, you must have received the full dosage that was prescribed to be eligible to participate. How will I know if I win? Drawings will take place each Wednesday, September 15-October 20 and winners are randomly selected. If you win you will be contacted by Texas Tech Emergency Management. Who is eligible to Participate in the program? Current faculty/staff/students who are fully vaccinated are eligible for the drawings. Can people win more than one prize? No, once a winner is randomly selected their name is removed from the system and cannot be selected again. If I win, may I give my prize to another person or decline it so I can remain in the pool for a different prize? No, the prize is exclusively for the winner who is randomly selected. While you can decline a prize, once your name is drawn it is not added back to the pool. Are the prizes taxable? Yes, the majority of the prizes are taxable personal benefits which will be reflected on an employee's Form W-2 as wages. Student Scholarship Awards will be reflected in a student's Form 1098-T. Tickets to nonsold out events may have a de minimus value and may not be required to be reported. Prizes not reported in the manner previously described may be reported on a Form 1099-MISC or a Form 1042-S (international faculty, staff, and students). A recipient information form will be required to be completed by the winner before a prize is awarded. Who do I contact if I have additional questions? Please email emergencymgmt@ttu.edu if you have additional questions. Student Health Services Address Texas Tech University, Student Wellness Center, 1003 Flint (Corner of Flint and Main) Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.743.2848 Email studenthealthservices@ttuhsc.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityAug 9, 2021 4:35 PM Student Health Services COVID-19 Student Health Services Back COVID-19 Information COVID-19 Quick Links Student Health Services Back TTU Testing Locations TTU COVID-19 Management System/Report a positive case/Self-Screening/Vaccine Wait List TTU COVID-19 Guidelines COVID-19 Vaccine Guidance for Additional and Booster Doses Coping with Stress COVID-19 Q&A COVID-19 Vaccine Q&A FDA Approval of COVID-19 Vaccine Need Care? Student Health Services Need Care? Back MyTeamCare Virtual Clinic Planning your visit Student Health Services Need Care? Back New Patients Return Patients A Note for Graduate Students The Services We Provide Student Health Services Need Care? Back Primary and Urgent Care Women's Health Integrated Mental Health Care Sports Medicine Nurse Clinic and Nurse Advice Messaging Center Travel Health Lab Services X-Ray Services Full Service Pharmacy Get to know your care team Student Health Services Need Care? Back Primary Care Providers Integrated Behavioral Health Team Nurses Patient Service Specialists Pharmacy, Lab and X-Ray Administration and Finance Student Basic Needs MyTeamCare Patient Portal ADHD Services Student Health Services Back I would like to be evaluated for ADHD I need my ADHD prescription filled ADHD FAQ Charges, Billing and Insurance Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back Insurance Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back I don't have health insurance. Can I be seen at Student Health Services? I have health insurance. How do I use my health insurance at Student Health Services? I have Medicaid/Medicare. What other insurance options do I have? Insurance Information for Non-Immigrant Students Charges and Billing Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back Missed Appointment Fee Understanding the Payment and Billing Process What is the Student Health and Wellness Fee? Insurance Resources for International Students and other AHP Subscribers Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back Your AHP Insurance in Action Take me to my Plan 12 Tips for AHP Subscribers AHP Insurance FAQ's Immunization and Medical Clearance Requirements Student Health Services Immunization and Medical Clearance Requirements Back New Students International Students Study Abroad Travel Health Student Health Services Immunization and Medical Clearance Requirements Travel Health Back International Travel Health Questionnaire-Non Study Abroad FAQ, Quick Links and Forms Student Health Services Back FAQ Student Health Services Back Appointments How can I obtain a copy of my records? Non-Immigrant Student Insurance Information Pharmacy, Lab and X-Ray Privacy TB Questions Visiting Student Health During the Summer More FAQ Quick Links Student Health Services Back Academic HealthPlans 2021-2022 Academic Health Plan Highlight Flyer Community Health Clinics Print your AHP Insurance Card Med+Proctor Mental Health Resources MyTeamCare Red Raider Orientation (RRO) RISE Student Business Services Travel Health Immunization Upload Center Forms Student Health Services Back Missed Appointment Fee Appeal Form Request an Interview Release of Information TTUHSC Dallas Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index