Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing Home Columbia Housing Providing undergraduate students with a safe and welcoming place to call home at Columbia University HERE TO SUPPORT THE UNDERGRADUATE RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY Columbia Housing provides our undergraduate residential students with safe and comfortable accommodations, and a friendly face whenever they have questions or concerns. We're responsible for maintaining the physical integrity, cleanliness and operations of Columbia's 30+ undergraduate residence halls. While we manage a lot of moving parts to keep our buildings in top shape, our number one priority is our undergraduate student residents. If you are a graduate student seeking University housing, please visit the Columbia Residential website. The Hospitality Desk, located in the Hartley Hall lobby, is available 24/7 for walk-in support, by phone at 212-854-2779 or email at [email protected] to help with general questions and concerns. For maintenance support in your room or building, open a Service Request with Facilities and Operations at any time. The system where students complete all official tasks related to their Housing, including the Occupancy Agreement, Room Selection and Online Check-Out. Columbia's Facilities & Operations team can assist with maintenance issues in your room, suite or residence hall shared spaces. Open a Service Request to report issues. Report an issue to the laundry machine vendor. Remember that our laundry rooms are shared spaces. Use LaundryView to monitor your wash so you can quickly empty the washer for the next person. News & Announcements May 19, 2022 Residence Hall Visitors & Guests for Summer Residential students may host one non-CUID holder guest overnight after completing a required pre-registration and vaccination verification process. May 11, 2022 Summer Housing Details On Friday 5/6, students received confirmation of their request for summer housing. Details including assignments and move instructions are to follow shortly. In the meantime, please review important milestones and dates. May 06, 2022 Important Check-Out Logistics for Seniors on 5/19 Campus and street closures are planned to support the May 19 commencement activities for the classes of 2020 and 2021, and may impact Check-Out for graduating seniors. More News Important Dates Jun1Wed Deadline for Incoming Columbia Engineering Combined-Plan Transfer Students to Request Disability Housing Accommodations for the Fall Semester 5:00 PM Jun10Fri Deadline for Returning & Combined Plan Students to Submit a Housing Application 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Jun30Thu First-Year Room Assignments Emailed to Students 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More Events Our Services Undergraduate Housing Housing for undergraduates of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering during the official academic terms. Conference Housing Outside of the main academic terms, our Conference Housing staff use the residence halls as temporary hotel-style housing for attendees of events held on or close by to campus. VIDEO LIBRARY Below are a selection of videos that may be helpful as you check-in for the Fall term. Visit our full video library for videos covering additional topics. Columbia Student Mail Cooking Safety with Columbia Housing Fire Safety with Columbia Housing Good Neighbor How to Break Down Boxes edit video Topics: No results There are no videos with the provided filters. Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close