Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Research Office of Research Research Centers STEM Outreach Cadet Summer Research Program Research Awards Institute for Future Conflict Office of Research The Dean of Faculty Office of Research (DFQ) serves as the support hub for the research and development programs at the United States Air Force Academy. Our vibrant program provides cadets with the knowledge, skills, and responsibilities necessary to succeed as leaders in the Air Force and Space Force. For details on the DFQ services, please click on the links below. Technology Transfer Agreements Budget Contact what we do Services Technology Transfer DFQ can provide in-house support to help you link your technology and the Air Force mission with the marketplace. Protect your research while ensuring technologies developed by the Air Force are transferred or shared with the government, academia, and industry. Services Provided: Assistance with Patent Searches, Invention Disclosures, Patents, Agreements, and Public Releases Coordination with TechLink, C-TRAC, and Purdue Foundry for commercialization opportunities Guidance on educational partnerships: Summer Faculty Fellowship Program, the National Research Council/Research Associate Programs, Cadet Summer Research Program, etc. For more information about Technology Transfer Programs please contact Mr. Sean Tucker, DFQ Research and T3 Program Manager Agreements The Office of Research (DFQ) provides administrative guidance on agreements and assists with research and tech transfer tasks, inquires, and deliverables. Three of the most common agreements are CRADAs, MOUs/MOAs, and EPAs. Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) Legal agreement between an Academy laboratory and a non-federal party to offer both parties the opportunity to leverage each other’s resources when conducting research and development; resulting royalty income is shared between the inventors and the laboratory. Memorandum of Understanding / Agreement (MOU/MOA) Legal documents describing a bilateral agreement between parties describing intent to cooperatively work together on an agreed-upon project or meet an agreed-upon objective. The use of an MOU or MOA is dependent on the mutual obligations of the parties. Educational Partnership Agreement (EPA) A formal agreement allowing the Academy and a K–12 facility or any non-profit institution that is dedicated to improving science, mathematics, and engineering education the opportunity to access equipment and resources which may be unavailable For more information about Agreements please email Ms. Teresa Whinnery. Budget The Office of Research Budget Team exists to offer financial management support to Research Centers and Institutes. The Budget Analysts are responsible for assisting researchers to execute over $40M in annual funding. Services Provided: Accepting and obligating funds Processing purchase requisitions and funds reconciliation Providing contract support Provide primary communication to researchers regarding budget policies and procedures For more information about Budget support and services please email DFRO Office of Research. Resources 2021 Research Directory Research Office One-Pager DFRO How To Series Research Highlights Colorado Springs Undergraduate Research Forum: 2021 Book of USAFA Abstracts Cadet research at AF Academy in full swing despite coronavirus Cadet Research Spotlight: The New and Improved Digital Holography Demonstration System CONTACT US Col Chris McClernon, Associate Dean for Research (719) 333-4185 Mr. Rick Rogers, Deputy Director, Office of Research (719) 333-2847 Mr. Sean Tucker, Research Program Manager (719) 333-3273 EXPLORE MORE Research Centers Academics Leadership Development ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.