Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Simmons Resources About Simmons Simmons About Simmons Simmons Resources Resources Work Orders To submit a work order, hot/cold request, or an event request, click here. Safety Information and Campus Police Non-emergency: 214-768-3388 Emergency: 214-768-3333 Faculty and staff can access information regarding building safety policies and procedures here. Simmons Technology Equipment is available to check out on a temporary basis. Requests can be filled out online. Requesting Space Certain spaces in both Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall and Harold Clark Simmons Hall are available to reserve for meetings and events. To request meeting/event space in Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall (ACSH) or Harold Clark Simmons Hall (HCSH), please provide the following information to Lauren Gilmore at lgilmore@smu.edu. Time and date of event (& include sufficient pre-event and post-event time for your set-up and tear down) Number of expected attendees AV requirements (computer, projection screen, DVD player, etc.)? Catering? A credit card number (external groups) or ORG number (SMU groups) External groups must have an SMU Sponsor to host an event in the Simmons School Room Reservation Contracts There are three different contracts for different groups. They can be downloaded below. SMU Group Contract External Group with SMU Sponsor Contract Student Group Contract(*please note that students are only able to reserve classrooms in HCSH) Classroom Scheduling Departments are expected to observe SMU’s standard class-schedule blocks (see attached) in scheduling classes. MWF classes start on the hour with the 1st class of the day beginning at 8 a.m. T/TH classes start every hour and a half with the 1st class of the day beginning at 8 a.m. Unless you plan to use all of multiple block times to deliver your class/event, please do not schedule at irregular times such that you render use of a preceding or following class block impossible; for example, don’t schedule a MWF class from 8:30 – 9:30. Since it is sometimes difficult to schedule classes in Annette Hall and Harold Hall during SMU’s peak classroom hours (10 a.m. - 2 p.m.), the departments are encouraged to distribute their classes evenly throughout the day. If you need to reserve a room for an event and neither Annette nor Harold can accommodate your event, other venues are available on campus, including Hughes-Trigg, which offers event rooms at no-cost to most SMU programs (refer to schedule.smu.edu). Please consult Lauren Gilmore for recommendations. If you plan to offer an event that requires staging before the event and tear-down after, be sure to reserve sufficient time for all 3 activities. The room/space will only be available to you during the period of time you reserve it. Reserving rooms can unfortunately be competitive. Given this, rooms are assigned in observation of the following priorities. 1st rights: Credit classes: Simmons School. Note: If Annette 218 is requested for any credit-bearing course on campus (Simmons or otherwise), evidence of a plan to use the room’s unique technology in course delivery will elevate the request above those that do not utilize the technology. See below. 2nd: Credit classes: other SMU schools 3rd: Non-credit classes: Simmons School 4th: Events: Simmons 5th: Events: SMU Administration (Provost and above) 6th: Events: SMU 7th: Non-credit classes: SMU non-Simmons, including CAPE & Cox 8th: External Events with Simmons partners 9th: External Events with non-partners Once classes are scheduled in Simmons buildings, they are only moved in order to accommodate Simmons-wide events and those of the Provost and President—not otherwise. Classes that have been moved under these circumstances will receive priority reassignment, although they may have to be assigned to other campus buildings. Reserving Annette Caldwell Simmons Room 218 Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Room 218 has state-of-the-art technology ideal for innovative teaching in a dynamic, hands-on learning environment. The Simmons School takes requests from the SMU community to use this room for credit-bearing and other courses to support the learning of all SMU students. To submit a request, please submit the attached form to Lauren Gilmore at lgilmore@smu.edu. Requests are due during the scheduling period designated by the Registrar's Office and consideration will be given on the basis of availability and how the technology will improve the class. The request form can be downloaded here. Simmons Website If you need website-design or SiteCore assistance, please send your request by email to George Hickey at gihickey@smu.edu. Explain your objective, identify all of the pages that will be affected, and provide the new content (text & photos) if possible. - Documentation for creating, maintaining, and publishing content to the school website - An Image Library, containing graphics, photos, and images, is free to download and use. Slate Resources - Slate CRM documentation and knowledge base Advertising - A list of all known aliases (also known as vanity or short URLs) that are currently in use. Other advertising options should be sent to Becky Hood. - An Image Library, containing graphics, photos, and images, is free to download and use. Departmental Email Addresses - Departmental email address list Simmons Image Library An Image Library, containing graphics, photos, and images, is free to download and use. Custom Graphics Custom graphics for Simmons-related events, meetings, social media etc. can be requested by contacting Yolette Garcia. Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall (ACSH) and Harold Clark Simmons Hall (HCSH) - ACSH floor plans and other building-related materials - HCSH floor plans and other building-related materials Digital Signage in ACSH and HCSH Halls The flat-screen panels found in the hallways on all floors in the two Simmons buildings are reserved for Simmons programs and SMU organizations. If interested in adding advertising, events, or announcements to the rotation, please put in a request. Teacher Development Studio Simmons Resources Simmons Policies and Procedures Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter