Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Summer Financial Aid Summer financial aid is available for continuing students only. Financial aid is available to undergraduate, credential, and graduates students, who have remaining eligibility from the current 2021-2022 academic year, have not exceeded their financial aid eligibility in the current academic year, and are enrolled in the minimum unit requirement (6 units minimum for most financial aid awards/programs). Summer is a continuation of the academic year. Any remaining financial aid eligibility from fall and/or spring can be used for summer courses (i.e. Pell Grant, Federal loans, State University Grant). A student must be enrolled in a matriculated program for the 2021/2022 academic year and have a valid FAFSA or CDA application on file. No separate application is needed for summer financial aid, except for the Summer Loan Request form, if requesting a Summer Loan. Summer costs vary based on enrolled units, which may span over multiple sessions. Sessions have different course lengths. Please visit the Summer Session Website for information on session dates and registration appointments. For the list of Summer Tuition and Fees visit Student Business Service's Website . Here are some 2022 Summer Session FAQs . Summer Grants Summer grant funding is available to assist you in paying your summer fees. Those who potentially qualify for a summer grant will receive an email from the Office of Financial Aid in mid-March with instructions. No separate application is necessary for these grants. To qualify you must meet these main criteria: You must not be receiving funds from another source to pay your fees (e.g., Cal Vet fee waiver, GI 2025 Summer Grant, or scholarships specifically designated for fee payment). You must have a 2021-2022 FAFSA OR California Dream Act Application on file and demonstrate financial need. You must be a California resident. Enrollment requirement: you must enroll in a minimum of 6 units for summer. Deadline: you must register for eligible classes by March 31, 2022, since funding is limited and awarded on a first-come basis. Summer State University Grant (SUG) Summer SUG is available to undergraduate, credential, and graduate students who meet all the eligibility criteria. In addition to meeting the main criteria listed above, these must also be met to be eligible for Summer SUG: Be enrolled in a State-Support program during the academic year and taking state-support classes during the summer. You can find the list of State-Support programs on Student Business Services' Summer Tuition page. Meet SUG eligibility criteria. Summer Session Grant (SSG) Summer Session Grant is not available for freshmen, sophomores, juniors, graduate degrees, credentials, second bachelor's degrees, unclassified post-baccalaureate students, or students enrolled in self-support degree programs in the academic year. In addition to meeting the main criteria listed above, these must also be met to be eligible for SSG: You must be an undergraduate senior with a graduation date of summer 2022 or fall 2022. You must be a state-support, matriculated undergraduate student during 2021-2022 academic year enrolled as a senior, taking self-support classes in the summer. You have a 0 Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on your 2021-2022 aid application. Should there be remaining funding, eligible students who received the email and enrolled in less than 6 units may be considered for a prorated amount of SSG; priority will be given to eligible, graduating seniors enrolled in at least 6 units. Students who were awarded SSG for 6 units, but drop to less will receive a prorated amount. Final summer registration fees will be posted when available on the Student Business Services website under Fee Information . Due to limited funds, not all students who meet the above criteria for a summer grant may receive it. You will be responsible for paying any remaining balance of tuition and/or campus fees, regardless of whether or not you receive a summer grant award. Federal Pell Grant If you are an undergraduate or a teaching credential candidate* who received a partial Federal Pell Grant in fall 2021 and/or spring 2022 (enrolled and paid at less than full-time for fall and/or spring) you may have remaining 2021-2022 Pell Grant available for summer. When you enroll in summer courses, we will automatically check to see if you have remaining Pell Grant available to assist with your summer expenses. If so, we will award your remaining Pell Grant and disburse the funds to you before the end of the last summer session. If you are an undergraduate or a teaching credential candidate* who received your full Federal Pell Grant in fall 2021/spring 2022 and have not exhausted your 6 years of full-time Pell payment eligibility, you may have remaining Pell Grant available for summer. When you enroll in summer courses, we will automatically check to see if you have remaining Pell Grant available to assist with your summer expenses. If so, we will award your remaining Pell Grant and disburse the funds to you before the end of the last summer session. Note: You must be enrolled in at least 6 units for Pell Grant payment if you received full-time payment for fall 2021 and spring 2022. *Teaching credential candidates must be enrolled in at least 6 units of teaching credential courses. Only courses listed on Pell Eligible Teaching Credential Courses are eligible for Pell Grant awarding. Prerequisite or 'waiver' courses are not included in calculating your enrolled units for purposes of Pell Grant program. Remaining Federal Pell Grant eligibility cannot be determined prior to summer 2022 enrollment. In light of this, you will be responsible for fee payment should you decide to enroll in summer courses. Federal Direct Loan: 2021-2022 academic year If you did not borrow the annual federal loan limit for your grade level in 2021-2022, you may have Federal Direct Loan eligibility available to be used for summer. A Financial Aid Representative is available to assist you in determining your loan eligibility. In some cases, we may recommend you apply for additional fall 2021/spring 2022 loan instead of a summer loan, if you have remaining academic year loan eligibility. Please note: the deadline for applying for an academic year loan is April 29, 2022. This will occur if you have unmet need for fall 2021/spring 2022. The advantages to taking additional academic year loan over a summer loan are: You have the flexibility to receive the additional academic year loan funds now which would allow you to pay for summer registration fees at the time of registration. This would increase the likelihood of you being able to register for the summer classes you need. Your eligibility to receive the loan funds will be based on your fall 2021/spring 2022 enrollment status being at least half-time (the equivalent of 6 units). Therefore, the 6 unit enrollment requirement for summer will not apply, offering you greater flexibility to take fewer than 6 units in the summer term and still receive assistance. If you do not qualify for additional academic year loan, you may qualify for a summer loan. However, a loan processed for summer will be processed only after we verify that you have enrolled in a minimum of 6 units for summer. Disbursement will occur approximately 10 business days after we forward your loan request to the Department of Education, but not earlier than the first day of your first summer class. 2022 Summer Loans Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans: If you are interested in applying for a loan for summer 2022, you will need to submit a 2022 Summer Loan Request form , to the Office of Financial Aid. Our office will determine if you have any remaining Federal Direct Loan eligibility for summer 2022. You must use Adobe Reader 6.0 or higher for the Summer Loan Request form to print properly. Then, follow these steps: Complete and sign the application, this can be don eelctronically. Do not forget to enter your campus-wide ID with no dashes or spaces in the box provided on the top-right of the form. Submit your application to our office in person, by mail, fax (see contact information ), or through the Electronic Document Submission Platform . To be considered for a summer loan: You must have a valid 2021-2022 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) on file at CSUF and your financial aid file must be complete. You must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) . You must enroll in a minimum of 6 units for summer. For course offerings, please refer to the 2022 Summer Class Schedule . Graduate students must be enrolled in the equivalent of 6 units. Courses numbered 500 or higher are weighted as 1.5, therefore, 4 units of 500 level courses would equal 6 (4 x 1.5 = 6). Courses that do not earn unit credit do not meet the enrollment requirement. DEADLINES: Summer Loan Request forms must be submitted by April 25, 2022 if students would like to have their loan processed and awarded as an anticipated aid prior to the first summer disenrollment on May 2, 2022 (Titan A). The first disbursement for summer will not be until the first week of June. The deadline for requesting a 2022 Summer loan is July16, 2022. ADDITIONAL LOANS: loan amounts must fit within the cost of attendance to coordinate alll summer financial aid awards. PLUS Loans: Please visit our Parent or Graduate Plus loan pages on instruction to complete a plus loan request. Alternative Loans: If you wish to take out an alternative (private) loan from a private lender for summer session, it may take several weeks to fund and students are encourage to do so as soon as possible. IMPORTANT: If for any reason, your financial aid has not disbursed by the fourth week of school or is not sufficient to cover the full cost of your tuition fees, you will ultimately be responsible for paying your tuition fees. If it is determined that you are eligible to receive summer loan funds and you have already paid your summer tuition fees, a credit will be issued to your account after the summer loan has been processed. Frequently Asked Questions: HOW DO I PAY MY REGISTRATION FEES? You are responsible for paying your summer registration fees. If your financial aid funds are not disbursed for any reason, you will be billed for payment and a hold may be placed on your fall registration until your summer fees are paid. When you register for summer classes, you will be advised of your account balance, if any, and the date by which you must pay your balance. If summer financial aid has been established for you and your award fully covers your fees: You will not need to make a payment and will not be dropped from your classes; Your fees will be paid automatically when your financial aid is disbursed beginning on the first week of the first summer session, provided you meet all of the requirements to receive a payment; If you have any remaining Pell grant eligibility, you will be notified and disbursed the funds by the end of the last summer session. If your summer financial aid award is not sufficient to pay your full fees, you are responsible for paying the remaining balance. A hold may be placed on your fall registration until your balance is paid. If your financial aid eligibility has not yet been determined at the time you register, you are responsible for paying your registration fees by the due date specified on your account. Failure to pay your fees by the specified due date may result in your disenrollment and/or a hold may be placed on your fall registration. HOW & WHEN WILL FINANCIAL AID DISBURSE? Disbursements for summer will begin the first week of summer session classes and continue weekly throughout the summer. In most cases, summer aid will be paid at the beginning of your first summer course. If you have any funds remaining after your summer registration fees have been paid by your financial aid, then a balance check or direct deposit will be issued to you. WHAT HAPPENS IF I WITHDRAW FROM A CLASS? Before you drop a summer class, read the refund and withdrawal policies in the Summer 2022 Class Schedule . Partial Withdrawal: If you receive financial aid for summer 2022 and you drop one or more classes but not all classes before the end of the session, you may be billed and required to repay part or all of the funds you received. Full Withdrawal: If you receive financial aid for summer 2022 and you withdraw from all courses before the 60% point of the session(s) you are enrolled in, we will calculate the portion of financial aid you "earned" based on the number of days you attended. You may be billed for any unearned financial aid you received. WHAT IS SATISFACTORY ACADEMIC PROGRESS? To maintain eligibility for financial aid, you must demonstrate Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) . This means you must complete the courses in which you enroll. Additionally, you must earn a passing grade (A, B, C, D, CR) in each course and meet the GPA requirement. SAP is monitored at the end of each spring semester. additional Frequently Asked Questions for summer financial aid Here are some additional FAQs on Summer Financial Aid to help provide you with more information. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.