COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Craig W. Barton Speaker Series Section Menu Craig W. Barton Speaker Series 2022 - Robert Gates The Craig W. Barton Speaker Series is annual event established to expose students to differing points of view and encourage critical thinking and conversation. 2022 SPEAKER Inaugural Speaker: Robert M. Gates 6 p.m. • April 27 • Wiedemann Hall Wichitan Robert M. Gates served as the 22nd secretary of defense (2006-2011) and director of the Central Intelligence Agency (1991-1993). Dr. Gates served eight U.S. presidents across both parties, and is the only secretary of defense in U.S. history to be asked to remain in office by a newly elected president. Note: This event is at capacity. Read Gates' full bio A long tradition of excellence The Barton Speaker Series is a continuation of a strong tradition of impactful speakers at Wichita State. The Forum Board Lecture Series, originally established in 1937 as the Student Forum and discontinued in 2002, brought in over that time more than 500 nationally and internally known personalities and thought leaders, including poets, athletes, journalists, filmmakers, academics and politicians. See more about the history of Free Expression Events About Craig W. Barton The Barton legacy at Wichita State is already well-respected and firmly established, but Craig Barton wanted to make an even deeper impact by launching a university lecture series featuring influential and diverse voices. The son of W. Frank Barton, for whom WSU’s business school is named, Craig Barton wants to reverse what he views as a trend at universities to stifle voices and opinions considered offensive by some. He recalls attending a lecture given by a socialist speaker when he was a WSU student in the early 1980s. “I was pretty sure I wasn’t going to agree with anything he said, but I went to listen. I just wanted to hear what he was going to say. And that’s what college is supposed to be,” Barton says. “College has always been a place where you experience new points of view and meet people who are different from you. It is meant to expand your mind, not close your mind.” Barton laments the polarization of thoughts and ideas that has developed in this country. His advice to WSU students is to recognize that people with opposing viewpoints can still be friendly and civil. “I would say to those students who might find a speaker objectionable, welcome to life. You may not agree with what a person has to say, but you’re going to encounter many people in life with whom you won’t agree,” he says. “If you think you’re going to go through life and never have to confront something objectionable, you are ill-prepared for the world outside the comfort of the university setting.” Barton has been a longtime supporter of Wichita State. He was among the first to donate a significant gift to the campaign to build Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall, the new home for the W. Frank Barton School of Business. He has served on the WSU Foundation’s board of directors, including two years as its chair. The legacy established by his father also includes several professorships in the Barton School as well as a prestigious scholarship named for Craig’s brother, Clay, who died at age 20. Craig W. Barton 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©