Let's Talk Program - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Outreach Let's Talk Program Outreach Outreach Request Form College Student Grief Awareness Day Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Newsletters Rainbow Wellness Group Workshops Let's Talk Program View the Let's Talk Printable Flyer to Share Let's Talk- mental health consultations with a CAPS clinician are in-person or virtual (by audio or video). Any member of the UH community can access Let’s Talk by entering the zoom waiting room during the hours listed. Zoom meeting room: 91244361097 The last person will be seen 15 minutes before the end of the hour. If we are busy, you may not be seen during this time. Know that you can call CAPS if you need immediate assistance at 713-743-5454. Summer 2022 Schedule (begins 5/23) Date Time Location Mondays 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm Zoom – 91244361097 Tuesdays 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm Zoom – 91244361097 Wednesdays 9:30 am – 11:00 am Zoom – 91244361097 Thursdays 10:30 am – 12:00 pm Zoom – 91244361097 Fridays 11:30 am – 1:00 pm Zoom – 91244361097 NOTE: If you are in crisis or significant distress, contact CAPS at 713.743.5454 and ask to speak to the Consultant on Duty. “Let’s Talk” is a brief, informal consultation and is not appropriate to address crisis situations. NOTE: To ensure the ability of Texans to preserve livelihoods while protecting lives, the following requirements apply: In areas where the COVID-19 transmission rate is high, individuals are encouraged to follow the safe practices they have already mastered, such as wearing face coverings over the nose and mouth wherever it is not feasible to maintain six feet of social distancing from another person not in the same household, but no person may be required by any jurisdiction to wear or to mandate the wearing of a face covering. Per Governor Abbott's Executive Order. What is “Let’s Talk”? “Let's Talk” is a program that provides easy access to informal confidential consultations with therapists from Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Consultations are available to the entire UH community – students, staff, and faculty. Consultations are free of charge, and no appointment or paperwork is needed. What happens during a “Let's Talk” consultation? A “Let’s Talk” therapist is available on a first-come, first-served basis; usually, there is not much of a wait. Each session takes about 20 minutes. The therapist will listen closely to your concerns and provide support, perspective, and suggestions for additional resources that may help you address your concerns. How is “Let's Talk” different from counseling? Therapists at CAPS provide a wide range of services that can be helpful to students. One service is short-term counseling that requires a commitment to several appointments that typically last between 45-50 minutes. “Let's Talk” is not formal counseling. It is a “drop-in” service where you will receive an informal consultation to address concerns you may have at the moment. Consultations are brief and focused, typically lasting not more than 15 – 20 minutes. “Let's Talk” may be beneficial to: Students who are not interested in short-term counseling but would like the perspective from a consultation with a professional. Students who have a specific problem and would like to briefly discuss the issue. Students who have a concern about a friend and want some guidance and support about how to address the issue. Faculty or staff who want to consult with a professional about an individual of concern. How does “Let’s Talk” differ from a triage appointment at CAPS? A triage appointment is a formal initial assessment that helps match the student’s needs with a clinical service, such as individual or group counseling, or an essential skills workshop, each of which requires more of a time commitment from the student. It is through the triage process that a student becomes a CAPS client. “Let’s Talk” allows you to address concerns at the moment, with the help and perspective of a professional therapist, without becoming a CAPS client and committing to additional services. Would going to “Let's Talk” help me figure out what to do about an issue of concern? Absolutely. The therapist will talk through your issue with you and help you determine the best way to get help. I was given a referral to a therapist in Houston. Can I use “Let's Talk” instead? Since regular counseling visits are not available at “Let's Talk”, following up with the referral is more appropriate. I'm currently seeing a therapist at CAPS, and I would like to talk to someone sooner than my next appointment. Can I use “Let's Talk” for this? It's best to first contact your therapist directly to see if they can see you sooner because it is important to remain consistent with the current treatment established between you and your therapist. However, here’s what to do if you are in crisis. I'm currently seeing a therapist at CAPS, and I am not happy with how things are going. Can I use “Let's Talk” instead? The best thing to do in this situation is to talk directly with your therapist. They are eager to receive your feedback and having a dialogue may allow the therapist an opportunity to address your concern. If you are uncomfortable talking to your therapist or have already discussed your concerns and still prefer to transfer, please contact us at 713.743.5454 for further assistance. Is “Let's Talk” confidential? “Let's Talk” meetings are informal confidential consultations. However, Texas law may require the therapist to disclose some or all of the information under certain limited circumstances. If you have concerns about disclosure, ask the “Let’s Talk” therapist for a more complete explanation of disclosure requirements. Related Links Let's Talk Flyer Summer 2022 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies