Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Biomedical Sciences (BS) – Neuroscience Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students who declare this major come in on a "Pending" status. In order for students to transition out of "Pending" status, they must earn a "C" or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: BSC 2010C, CHM 2045C, CHM 2046, CHM 2210. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Grades below "C" in Common Program Prerequisites, Core Requirements and Restricted Electives are not accepted. Students in undergraduate majors within the College of Medicine are expected to consistently make good progress towards their degrees. Therefore, the COM/BSBS Progress Policy mandates that undergraduate students meet the requirements of the policy. Below are the specific requirements of the Progress Policy: Students with 3 withdrawal (W) grades will be placed in a probationary status. Students with 5 withdrawal (W) grades will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Medical withdrawals are not included in this withdrawal component. Students who earned 5 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U) will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students who earn more than 8 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U), will meet with an advisor from Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students with 2 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students with 3 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students in the Neuroscience track must maintain a minimum science GPA of 3.2. Students who are unable to maintain such GPA must revert back into the non-track Biomedical Sciences B.S. Students should consult with a BSBS academic advisor at least once a semester. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Bacteriology Professor Bacteriology Technician Biochemistry Technician Biology Laboratory Assistant Cancer Researcher Clinical Pharmacologist Clinical Research Scientist Embryology Professor Gerontologist Histopathologist Industrial Pharmacist Marine Fisheries Technician Medical Health Researcher Medical Research Scientist Medical Scientist Microbiology Professor Microbiology Technician Serologist Wildlife Technician Zoology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Bachelors Biomedical Sciences (BS) - Neuroscience University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students who declare this major come in on a "Pending" status. In order for students to transition out of "Pending" status, they must earn a "C" or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: BSC 2010C, CHM 2045C, CHM 2046, CHM 2210. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Grades below "C" in Common Program Prerequisites, Core Requirements and Restricted Electives are not accepted. Students in undergraduate majors within the College of Medicine are expected to consistently make good progress towards their degrees. Therefore, the COM/BSBS Progress Policy mandates that undergraduate students meet the requirements of the policy. Below are the specific requirements of the Progress Policy: Students with 3 withdrawal (W) grades will be placed in a probationary status. Students with 5 withdrawal (W) grades will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Medical withdrawals are not included in this withdrawal component. Students who earned 5 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U) will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students who earn more than 8 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U), will meet with an advisor from Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students with 2 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students with 3 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students in the Neuroscience track must maintain a minimum science GPA of 3.2. Students who are unable to maintain such GPA must revert back into the non-track Biomedical Sciences B.S. Students should consult with a BSBS academic advisor at least once a semester. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 8 Total Credits No Rules Math and Statistics 0 Total Credits Complete all of the following MAC 2311C - Calculus with Analytic Geometry I Credit Hours: 4 STA 2023 - Statistical Methods I Credit Hours: 3 Chemistry 8 Total Credits Complete the following: CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I (3) CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II (3) CHM2211L - Organic Laboratory Techniques I (2) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 25 - 26 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: BSC3403C - Quantitative Biological Methods (4) MCB3020C - General Microbiology (5) PCB3522 - Molecular Biology I (3) PCB3233L - Immunology Laboratory (1) PCB4280 - Molecular Immunology (3) PCB4524 - Molecular Biology II (3) MCB4410 - Cellular Metabolism (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: BCH4024 - Medical Biochemistry (4) BCH4053 - Biochemistry I (3) Track Core Requirements 13 Total Credits Complete the following: MCB4224 - Molecular Biology of Diseases (3) PCB4843 - Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience (3) ZOO3744 - Neurobiology (3) ZOO4743C - Clinical Neuroanatomy and Neuroscience (4) Grand Total Credits: 46 - 47 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida