Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Athletic Training Educating students for a career in healthcare Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Kinesiology&Phys Thpy, Schl of 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain Experience in a Diversity of Clinical Settings to Succeed in Athletic Training Athletic trainers are healthcare professionals who collaborate with physicians and other members of the healthcare team to provide preventive services, emergency care, clinical diagnosis, therapeutic intervention, and rehabilitation of injuries and medical conditions. Athletic trainers are employed in a wide variety of settings including secondary schools, colleges and universities, outpatient rehabilitation facilities, medical offices, hospitals, the performing arts, the military, public safety organizations, and industry. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, athletic training employment is expected to grow 23%. The UCF Master of Athletic Training (MAT) program is a six-semester graduate program. Faculty and clinical educators (preceptors) focus on excellence in teaching and healthcare to support students throughout their journey to successfully become licensed athletic trainers. If you are interested in being a member of an interprofessional healthcare team and you enjoy working with active populations, a career in athletic training may be for you. At UCF, you will have learning experiences with students from other healthcare-related programs designed to enhance interprofessional teamwork in patient care. Rolling admission starts Feb. 1, so be sure to apply early! Request Information Highlights Board of Certification (BOC) first-time pass rates well above the national average High employment rate with graduates employed in diverse clinical practice settings Research opportunities within laboratories affiliated with the MAT program Application Deadlines Summer April 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Emergency Care and Critical Incident Management Learn to implement appropriate emergency and immediate care procedures that reduce the risk of morbidity and mortality in patients. Assessment, Evaluation and Diagnosis of Injury and Illness Perform a systematic assessment to formulate a clinical diagnosis and determine a plan of care. Therapeutic Interventions Optimize patient outcomes by administering therapeutic exercise, therapeutic modalities, and manual techniques. Research Use evidence to inform clinical decision making and contribute to the body of athletic training research through the completion of a capstone project. Administration in Athletic Training Practice Integrate best practices for risk management, documentation, and business administration. View All Master's in Athletic Training Courses That You'll Take Not only are the professors and preceptors excellent teachers, but I've built a great professional network that I can now reach out to whenever I need advice. The professors set a great foundation in the classroom which is reinforced and practiced in your clinical sites. The UCF MAT program was a great experience and has definitely helped in my transition to practice." — Peter Dawry, MAT, ATC, ‘21MAT Athletic Training Skills You'll Learn Emergency Care and Critical Incident Management Assessment, Evaluation and Diagnosis of Injury and Illness Therapeutic Rehabilitation and Manual Therapy Techniques Research in Clinically Relevant Topics Administration in Athletic Training Practice Career Opportunities Secondary schools Colleges and universities Professional sports Performing arts Military Public safety Industry Outpatient rehabilitation facilities, medical offices, and hospitals College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. MAT Student Gains Valuable Experience Mollie Przybocki, a second-year Master of Athletic Training program student, recently had an opportunity to hone her athletic training skills at Camp Woodward — a world-class training facility. Learn about her experience Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Masters Master of Athletic Training (MAT) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Master of Athletic Training (MAT) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Athletic Training (MAT) program is designed to enable students to demonstrate, in the classroom and during clinical experiences, that they have achieved levels of comprehension, competency, and proficiency expected of entry-level athletic trainers. The program's classroom component is divided into two sections: athletic training theory and practice, and clinical experiences. The courses are designed to expose students to information through multiple didactic, laboratory, and clinical experiences. These courses incorporate the Curricular Content Standards set forth by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE). All students are required to complete the curriculum in the established sequence of courses. By combining excellence in teaching, the latest technologies available in education, and outstanding clinical site affiliations, graduates of the program are fully prepared to take and pass the comprehensive Board of Certification (BOC) exam and start their careers as athletic trainers. Mission The Master of Athletic Training program prepares graduates to advance the quality of healthcare provided to physically active people through interdisciplinary patient-centered education. The Program is committed to providing students with enriching didactic, clinical, and research experiences that foster communication, critical thinking, leadership, and collaboration. Graduates of the Program will understand the role of the athletic trainer as a member of the healthcare team and will advocate for the advancement of the profession. Vision The Master of Athletic Training program aspires to be a nationally recognized leader in athletic training education where diverse students, faculty, and preceptors advance healthcare through innovation in education, research, and clinical practice. Values The Master of Athletic Training program faculty values initiative, integrity, compassion, inclusion, and altruism. The MAT degree program is a two-year full-time professional master's program. The courses are taken in a prescribed sequence over 6 semesters, including 18 credit hours of clinical practice. Clinical practice occurs under the direct supervision of a certified and licensed athletic trainer. The program is fully accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) through 2026-27. For information on how this program may prepare students for professional licensure, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CHPS-Master-of-Athletic-Training-June2020.pdf. Program Prerequisites Completion of prerequisite coursework outlined below with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) is required. Candidates with all prerequisites completed at the time of application may be given preference over those still completing courses. Courses older than 10 years will not be accepted. General Bio/Biology - A minimum of 4 credits (including a lab) for science majors - Biology courses for non-science majors and non-human biology courses are not acceptable. Human Anatomy and Physiology - A minimum of 8 credits (including two labs) for science majors - Anatomy and physiology courses for non-science majors and non-human anatomy and physiology courses are not acceptable. Option 1: One semester of Human Anatomy with lab and one semester of Human Physiology with lab Option 2: Two semesters of Anatomy and Physiology combined courses with a lab each (A&P-I and A&P-II) Statistics - A minimum of 3 credit hours Human Nutrition /Clinical Nutrition - A minimum of 3 credit hours for science or health/medicine/nursing majors General Psychology - A minimum of 3 credit hours - Any course taken within a psychology department/unit will be acceptable. Exercise Physiology - A minimum of 3 credit hours Biomechanics or Kinesiology - A minimum of 3 credit hours General Chemistry/Chemistry I - A minimum of 4 credits (including a lab) for science majors Physics I - A minimum of 4 credits (including a lab) for science majors Degree Requirements Required Courses 65 Total Credits Complete all of the following Summer 1 - Semester 1 Complete the following: ATR5016 - Foundational Behaviors of Athletic Training Practice I (1) ATR5106C - Prevention of Injury and Illness in Athletic Training Practice (2) ATR5206C - Functional Human Anatomy for Athletic Trainers (3) ATR5117C - Acute Care in Athletic Training Practice I (3) Fall 1 - Semester 2 Complete the following: ATR5017 - Foundational Behaviors of Athletic Training Practice II (1) ATR5219C - Musculoskeletal Evaluation and Diagnosis in Athletic Training Practice I (3) ATR5306C - Therapeutic Interventions in Athletic Training Practice I (3) ATR5406C - General Medical Conditions in Athletic Training Practice I (2) ATR5617 - Athletic Training Research I (1) ATR5815L - Practicum in Athletic Training I (2) Spring 1 - Semester 3 Complete the following: ATR5217C - Musculoskeletal Evaluation and Diagnosis in Athletic Training Practice II (3) ATR5307C - Therapeutic Interventions in Athletic Training Practice II (3) ATR5516 - Healthcare Administration in Athletic Training Practice I (2) ATR5825L - Practicum in Athletic Training II (2) ATR6407C - General Medical Conditions in Athletic Training Practice II (2) Summer 2 - Semester 4 Complete the following: ATR6218C - Musculoskeletal Evaluation and Diagnosis in Athletic Training Practice III (3) ATR6308C - Therapeutic Interventions in Athletic Training Practice III (3) ATR6618C - Athletic Training Research II (1) ATR6835L - Practicum in Athletic Training III (1) Fall 2 - Semester 5 Complete the following: ATR6309C - Therapeutic Interventions in Athletic Training Practice IV (3) ATR6845L - Practicum in Athletic Training IV (9) Spring 2 - Semester 6 Complete the following: ATR6517 - Healthcare Administration in Athletic Training Practice II (2) ATR6505 - Athletic Training Seminar (1) ATR6118L - Acute Care in Athletic Training Practice II (1) ATR6619C - Athletic Training Research III (4) ATR6855L - Practicum in Athletic Training V (4) Comprehensive Examination 0 Total Credits Passing a comprehensive examination with a grade of 80 percent or better is a requirement for continued progress in the Master of Athletic Training degree. This examination will be given to every student at the end of the third semester (mid-point of the program). Students must take the exam at that time and will be allowed a maximum of three (3) attempts. Failure to pass the examination in 3 attempts will result in a review by the AT Program Progression and Retention Committee and may result in dismissal from the program. Students may not enroll in fourth-semester coursework until they have successfully completed the comprehensive examination. Grand Total Credits: 65 Application Requirements This track and its application process should be used by: Applicants with a bachelor's degree from an institution outside of UCF And Students who hold or will earn a degree from UCF AND intend to apply to athletic training graduate programs at other institutions AND UCF. UCF students who hold or will earn a degree from UCF AND only intend to apply to the UCF Masters of Athletic Training should apply through the Athletic Training MAT - UCF BS to UCF MAT Track (Track requires an application through UCF Online Graduate Application but does NOT require an application through ATCAS). Applicants must apply to both UCF Graduate Admissions and the Athletic Training Centralized Application System (ATCAS). For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. The Master of Athletic Training program participates in the Athletic Training Centralized Application Service, known as ATCAS. Prospective students must apply online using the ATCAS application. In addition to the ATCAS application, applicants must also submit a UCF application for graduate admissions at https://applynow.graduate.ucf.edu/apply/ . Both the ATCAS application and the UCF Graduate application must be submitted by the posted application deadline. All application materials MUST be sent directly to ATCAS. Supporting documents (transcripts, letters, etc.) should not be sent directly to the MAT program or UCF College of Graduate Studies and will not be reviewed. To learn more about the ATCAS application process, visit http://caate.net/apply-now/. Admission to the MAT program is competitive and applications are reviewed as they are received beginning February 1. Students may continue to apply after February 1 and will be evaluated (rolling admissions) until seats are filled. The final deadline for applications is April 1. The following application materials must be received by ATCAS: Completed ATCAS application including all documents required by ATCAS. One official transcript from each college/university attended. The transcripts must demonstrate a minimum of a 3.0 overall GPA in undergraduate coursework and completion of prerequisite coursework with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0). Candidates with all prerequisites completed at the time of application may be given preference over those still completing courses. The bachelor's degree may be in any discipline from an accredited institution recognized by UCF and may be in progress at the time of application. However, the degree must be awarded prior to the program's start date in the Summer C semester (mid-May). Applicants who have attended a college/university outside the United States must also provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Proof of 50 hours of observation of an athletic trainer (BOC certified) in a high school, collegiate, and/or professional sports setting. Three (3) letters of recommendation with ATCAS recommendation forms, including one from an athletic trainer. Complete a personal statement/essay about professional goals and the discipline of athletic training. Incomplete applications will NOT be reviewed. An interview, by invitation only, may be required after the initial application review process is complete. Admission to the program is competitive. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee an applicant an interview or admission to the program. Admissions decisions will be made only once per academic year. Incoming students must begin the program in the summer C semester (mid-May). Admission to the MAT program is competitive and applications are reviewed as they are received beginning February1. Students may continue to apply after February 1 and will be evaluated (rolling admissions) until seats are filled. The final deadline for applications is April 1. Application Deadlines Athletic Training MAT *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Apr 1 International Applicants Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida