Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Image 1 Image 2 Image 3 Image 3 Request Information Loading... Request info Continue Your Journey With Perkins. Move fully into the life of service to which God has called you. Whether your vocation is as pastor, educator, musician, youth leader, scholar, or committed layperson, the faculty and staff of Perkins will guide you to gather the resources—spiritual, intellectual and financial—to answer your special calling. Connect Visit Apply Every time I step on the campus, I feel like I’m becoming a better person and learning to become a better servant. – Stephanie Bohan, current M.A.M. student and Executive Director of The Agape Clinic in Dallas. Read her story. I got in and received a scholarship, so I felt God made a really clear path for me. The faculty is amazing. Just being able to study with people whose names you hear regularly around the United Methodist Church – that’s wonderful. – David Kim (M.Div. ’21), Houston-Galveston Hybrid Program Student Read his story. When you ask God for a sign, you really need to be prepared for what you’re going to get, because it could potentially be pretty extreme. – Jennifer Kilpatrick (M.Div. ’21), recipient of Charles Stokes Scholarship Read her story. I have been and will be continuously blessed by relationships cultivated through Perkins. Classmates, professors and administrators whose mere presence encourage me to be a better man and minister, to keep loving, learning and fighting for justice, and to stay grounded in prayer. – Christian Watkins (M. Div. '19) Read his story. For every class project, for every paper I write, I try to focus on the lens of Hispanic community and ministries. – Rosedanny Ortiz (M.Div. ’21) Read her story. Previous Next pause play hide show Featured Stories and Events 2022 Annual Conference Gatherings for Friends, Alums Friends, Alumni/ae and current or prospective students of Perkins School of Theology are invited to attend the 2022 Annual Conference gatherings. Find Events Alumnus Profile: Robert Hasley Despite a serious diagnosis, Robert Hasley still knows “everything’s gonna be all right.” Read More Testimony HQ 2nd Cohort Applications Open Applications opened May 1 for congregations interested in joining the second cohort of Perkins School of Theology’s Testimony HQ grant-funded initiative. Read Here Affording Perkins 100% Percentage of master's degree-seeking students with demonstrated need receiving financial aid $12,200 Average annual award granted to full-time, degree-seeking students 2 Weeks Time it takes to receive notification of your financial aid package once your completed application is submitted Welcome to Perkins School of Theology! Meet our students and learn how Perkins can help you realize your graduate theological education goals and reach the full potential of your call to service of God’s people. Latest News Baptist Students Vie to Be Part of Perkins' First Baugh Scholars Cohort Applications Open May 1 for Second Cohort of Perkins Testimony HQ Congregational Initiative Read the May issue of Perkins Perspective Online, our e-magazine with updates and information on the Perkins Community The Baugh Foundation grants $2.7 million to Perkins Baptist House of Studies See more news Events See all upcoming events Choose Your Degree Program Perkins offers a range of degree programs, including our hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program, allowing you to create an academic path best suited to your unique call to ministry and service. Many of these programs are structured so as to allow a concentration in a particular area of interest. Learn more. Perkins by the Numbers 63% United Methodists with more than 20 other denominations represented Student body of more than 300 students Located in Dallas, Texas, with a hybrid extension program in Houston-Galveston Faculty of 30, 40% female and more than 1/3 representing minority ethnic groups Approximately 54% female, 46% male students 42% of students represent minority ethnic groups Alumni/ae network across the globe, from Australia to Zimbabwe An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share