COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Strategic Communications In This Section Strat Comm Home Contact Us Brand Standards Guides Creative Events WSU Newsroom Internal Communication Strategy Advertising Web Social Media Internships Stop Video We are enthusiastic ambassadors and storytellers of all things Wichita State—from our mission, vision and values to the positive impact Shockers make locally, regionally and globally. Contact Us #WSUNow Learn about our current campaign focused on WSU's innovative approach to learning and how you can share what you're innovating, designing, researching, studying or creating. #WSUNow Tools & Resources Templates WSU Newsroom Guides Website support Training Photo bank Brand standards Basecamp How we serve WSU We leverage our wide range of creative and strategic expertise to help our clients maximize their marketing impact through: News releases and stories Telling WSU's amazing stories and connecting with the media to inform on major announcements and achievements. Internships Providing real-world experience through more than eight Shocker student internships every semester. Marketing Strategy Conducting research, analysis and messaging to effectively promote WSU’s brand on and off campus. Internal communication Helping the WSU campus communicate together, promote events and tell their stories. Web Communicating university messages through multimedia storytelling, design, web development and SEO. Social Media Utilizing multiple social media channels to creatively engage our community and external audiences. Advertising Maximizing the effectiveness of ad spends through correct channel selection and media buys. Creative Services Creating compelling narratives through graphic design, video, photography, writing and project management. Event Planning Managing major campus events and assisting clients—from booking facilities and food services to event promotion. Placemaking Strategic Communications also leads the university's Placemaking efforts, activating our campus by creating public spaces that promote the health, happiness and well-being of visitors and the campus community. Learn More Follow Us! Stay connected with Wichita State University through our official social media channels. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Snapchat TikTok 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©