Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Contact Us Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Web Cams Apply Now Make a Gift Explore Admissions Academics Students Financial/Tuition Fiscal Policy Settlement of University fees Satisfactory settlement of all expenses is a requirement for completing each semester’s class registration, and no student is officially enrolled until all past due accounts have been satisfied. Financial aid cannot be used to satisfy balances carried forward from a prior academic year. Tuition for graduate students is delineated on the Tuition and Fees web page. All other transactions relating to payment should be conducted with The Student Financial Services Office, G-08 Sikes Hall. All checks and money orders should be made payable to Clemson University. A personal check given in payment of University expenses that is returned by the bank unpaid immediately creates an indebtedness to the University (See “Returned checks/credit card payments” below). Late registration service charge A student has not completed registration until all required steps have been taken, including payment of tuition and fees. Any student failing to complete registration on the published deadline dates will incur a late enrollment charge. See the Registrar’s Academic Calendar for deadlines. Returned checks/credit card payments Along with other fiscal policy, disputed settlements of University fees, returned checks, EFTs, and credit card payments are determined by Student Financial Services. Find additional details in the Financial Information and Assistantships section of the Graduate School Policies and Procedures Handbook and at the University’s Paying Your Bill web page. Loan default Graduate students who are employed in programs administered directly or indirectly by Clemson University and are found to be in default on payments of student loans may be subject to wage withholding (garnishment) according to Legislative Authority P.L. 102-164; To U.S.C. S1095A et. seq. Past due accounts Any indebtedness to the University which becomes past due immediately jeopardizes the student’s enrollment, and no such student will be permitted to enroll for an ensuing semester or summer term. Billing fees and/or collection costs may be added to the indebtedness. Further, any student who fails to pay all indebtedness to the University, including collection costs, may not be issued a transcript or diploma. Unresolved debts may be turned over to a collection agency, reported to a credit bureau, and/or deducted from state income tax refunds. Debts include, but are not limited to, parking violations, library fines, rent, academic fees, and others. Adjustment of academic fees: Tuition, University Fees, and Health Fee for Students Withdrawing, Dropping to Part-Time, or Part-Time Students Dropping Credit Hours Please the webpage titled "Adjustment of Academic Fees" here. Establishment of University fees The annual State Appropriation Act imposes the general requirement that student fees be fixed by the University Board of Trustees. The act imposes two specific requirements on the Board: In fixing fees applicable to academic and general maintenance and operation costs, the Board must maintain a minimum student fee not less than the fee charged the previous year; In fixing fees applicable to dormitory rental, dining halls, laundry, infirmary and all other personal subsistence expenses, the Board must charge students an amount sufficient to cover fully the cost of providing such facilities and services. Fees for graduate students Fees in general support non-academic services for students. The University works to keep fees competitive with peer institutions and only charges students what is defensible in covering costs associated with the services provided. For a list of required fees for graduate students, see the Tuition and Fees web page. See also the Mandatory Health Insurance topic in the Policies and Procedures Handbook. * All fees and charges listed are subject to change without notice. Student Employment Loans Fiscal Policy Policies and Procedures Forms Back to Top Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Graduate School | E-106 Martin Hall, Clemson University, Clemson SC 29634 Contact Us | Web Accessibility