Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Arts & Sciences E-Files Newsletter Headlines Faculty Focus The Brightest Department Newsletters Events and Seminars Media and Video Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Careers in Earth Sciences Learn what you can do with a degree in Earth Sciences >>> Chair and Director retreat at Lichterman Nature Center Theme of the Retreat: Conversations for Emerging, Adopting, and Succeeding What can finches tell us? A lot, it seems... UofM professor Jim Adelman and researchers from Virginia Tech, University of San Diego and University of Connecticut received a $1.75 million grant to study variation in host susceptibility to infectious disease. Discover Your Future in Data Science Data Science is one of the most highly sought-after and versatile degrees available. Learn More >>> Dr. Keith Bower's Ornithology class field trip to the Meeman Biological Station. Students helped ID the first adult Prothonotary Warbler of the 2022 field season, and will be forever immortalized in the lab database. Dr. Keith Bower's Ornithology class field trip to the Meeman Biological Station Students helped ID the first adult Prothonotary Warbler of the 2022 field season, and will be forever immortalized in the lab database PreviousNext Take Action In Case You Missed It Faculty Accolades Announcements College of Arts and Sciences Follow Us Online Facebook Home E-Files Arts & Sciences Headlines English Faculty Member Selected to study and collaborate with humanities experts DR. CHRISTOPHER ALLAN BLACK has been selected as a National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Summer Scholar from a national applicant pool to attend “Transcendentalism and Social Reform: Activism and Community Engagement in the Age of Thoreau.” More Information NIH Funds Murphy’s Research Meant to Enhance Opioid Treatment DR. JAMES MURPHY, professor in the Department of Psychology, will serve as Principal Investigator on a subaward from the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC) on an NIH funded R33 award with Dr. Karen Derefinko, associate professor in the Department of Preventive Medicine, as the UTHSC Principal Investigator. Learn More NSF Funds Pollard with ERI Award DR. SHAWN POLLARD, assistant professor in the department of physic and material science, was recently awarded an engineering research initiation (ERI) grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Pollard’s award for $195,490, entitled “Compositionally modulated ferrimagnets for spin-orbitronic devices.” Full Details IN CASE YOU MISSED IT (ICYMI)... Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.