Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Research The generation of new knowledge through research is an integral and highly-valued activity at the College of Dental Medicine. Our faculty engages in wide ranging areas of research, from Oropharyngeal Cancer to Biomaterials/Regenerative Biology/Stem Cells, Neuroscience and Pain, Microbial Pathogenesis/Microbiome, Behavioral and Social Sciences/Population Oral Health, and Systemic and Oral Disease Interactions. Such research broadens the definition of dental medicine, building upon advances in the basic, oral health, and social sciences, and in education. Columbia University has a long-standing, rich history in dental education and research. Dr. Gies (1872-1956), a professor of Biochemistry at the College of Physicians & Surgeons and a founder of the College of Dental Medicine, is recognized as a pioneer in the profession. He was an advocate for rigorous medical and scientific instruction in dental education. In the early 1950s the Birnberg Research Medal Award of the Dental Alumni of Columbia University was established to encourage dental research excellence and help stimulate public interest in support of dental research. Faculty and students are proud to be part of a Columbia University legacy that promotes cutting-edge research. As we take dentistry into new and exciting directions, we advance the College’s century-old commitment to strengthening the profession and its practice through research and scholarly activity. Carol Kunzel, PhD, MA Director of Research ck60@cumc.columbia.edu Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top