Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Land Acknowledgment Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About School of Medicine Wichita About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Land Acknowledgment Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita About Diversity, Equity & Inclusion-Wichita KU School of Medicine-Wichita joins KU Medical Center and KU School of Medicine-Salina in the overall commitment to actively develop and support a valued and respected workforce. To achieve this goal locally, there are two committees on the Wichita campus devoted to diversity, equity and inclusion work. The committees are open to any interested member of the campus community – join anytime. The committees focus on fostering a campus environment that promotes a sense of belonging and empowerment for all, as well as addressing and reducing health inequities through outreach to our community and stakeholders committed to social justice. DEI Committees in Wichita Diversity & Inclusion Committee This committee is focused internally on fostering a campus environment that promotes a sense of belonging and empowerment for all members of the KU School of Medicine-Wichita community. Goal: Foster an environment that promotes a sense of belonging and empowerment for all members of the KU Medical Center-Wichita community in order to attract, recruit and retain diverse faculty, staff and learners Goal: Provide mandatory Unconscious Bias (UB) 1.0 training for all employees and learners on all three campuses Committee members: Lynn Fisher, M.D. Crystal Nevins Jenny Hirt Samuel Ofei-Dodoo, Ph.D. Kari Nilsen, Ph.D. Colleen Loo-Gross, M.D., MPH Tessa Rohrberg, M.D. Kim Krohn, M.D., MPH Morgan Weiler, MS4 Kakra Boye-Doe, MS4 Kendall Anaya, PharmD student Contact: If you would like to join future meetings of this committee, contact Lynn Fisher, M.D., assistant professor, Family & Community Medicine, at lfisher11@kumc.edu. DEI Community Partnerships Work Group This group is focused externally on addressing and reducing health inequities through outreach to our community and partnerships with internal and external stakeholders committed to social justice. Our workgroup values KU School of Medicine-Wichita being a good neighbor to the residents of the A. Price Woodard community and surrounding area. We believe we can impact social justice and increase health equity by fostering strong relationships and community ties between our medical school community and the residents of our medical school neighborhood. We will, therefore: Invite community leaders to share their stories and insights with our committee Goal: The committee will welcome and learn from at least two guest speakers per calendar year who represent local businesses, neighborhood associations or similar area interests. Proactively seek opportunities to give back to our community through service Goal: Participate annually in the A Price Woodard neighborhood cleanup Goal: Arrange and promote at least two volunteer opportunities per year for KUSM-W students, faculty, staff, and residents within a 10-mile radius of the medical school campus Goal: Support and sustain the work already being done through partnership with Park Elementary Partner with internal partners committed to social justice to increase our education and awareness of issues such as effective allyship and advocacy Goal: establish and sustain collaboration between this committee and the DEI Cabinet’s Social Justice working group Committee members (as of June 2021): Julie Galliart Melissa Hopper Lynn Fisher, M.D. Samuel Ofei-Dodoo, Ph.D. Karson Quinn Colleen Loo-Gross, M.D., MPH Lisette Jacobson Kennedy Poro Brittany White-Dold Belinda Venters Kakra Boye-Doe, MS4 Tristan Alfie Aquib Jamil Ayah Elbermawy Danielle Binion (KC) Antoinette Redmond (KC) Jerrihlyn McGee (KC) Guadalupe Fraire, P1 student pharmacist Community resources: Wichita Family Medicine Residency Faculty Development: krohn@wesleymc.com Family Medicine Interest Group: aholt5@kumc.edu Family & Community Medicine Primary clinical care: rkellerm@kumc.edu Internal Medicine Research: rbadget@kumc.edu Internal Medicine IDEA Diabetes Grant: tschwasinger-schmidt@kumc.edu Pediatrics Safe Sleep Community Baby Showers: cschmidt3@kumc.edu, kidsks.org/community-baby-shower-for-safe-sleep.html Pediatrics Baby Talk: cschmidt3@kumc.edu, babytalkict.com Pediatrics Project Imprint: cschmidt3@kumc.edu Pediatrics Medically Complex Clinic: dbirdwell@kumc.edu Population Health WorkWell Kansas: eablah@kumc.edu, workwellks.com Population Health RADx Up: eablah@kumc.edu Population Health Grant proposal: eablah@kumc.edu Population Health eMOMS: ljacobson@kumc.edu, kumc.edu/emoms Population Health eDECIDE: mredmond@kumc.edu Kansas Cancer Partnership Health Equity Workgroup: kscancerpartnership.org Black for Pink LGBT Health Coalition Health Alliance of Sedgwick County JayDoc Community Clinic/Guadalupe Clinic LGBTQ resources Wichita Area Breastfeeding Coalition Contact: If you would like to join future meetings of this committee, contact Julie Galliart, Ed.D., associate dean, Faculty Affairs & Development; assistant professor, Pediatrics, at jgalliart@kumc.edu. We have an archive of presentations where you can learn more about the work of our Wichita faculty, students and staff in promoting health equity or addressing other issues of social justice. Learn more about the strategic initiatives for all campuses facilitated by the Vice Chancellor’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Cabinet, other committees and sub-committees, and the Office of Diversity and Inclusion. Land Acknowledgement A formal acknowledgment recognizing Native peoples and their relationships to the land on which our institution resides. Learn More KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.