Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Payment Information Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Billing Due Dates Methods of Payment Payment Plans Payment FAQ Refunds Refunds FAQ Taxes SBS Forms Tuition and Fee Exemptions and Residency Waivers Contact Us Payment Information Being a student at the University of Houston will be one of the most rewarding times of your life, however there will be a lot of financial details to manage. It is important to remember billing due dates so that you can make arrangements to pay tuition and fees on time and maintain enrollment in all of your the classes. It is the student’s responsibility to know the due dates for all payments. All bills are issued through the Student Business Services Department and reflect charges posted to the university’s centralized billing system by the various departments across campus. Enrolled students' statement of account will only be posted electronically in myUH — making bills available online at all times. To learn more about payments, see Financial Information in the Student Handbook or visit Student Business Services in the Welcome Center. There are payment plans and waivers available to help you manage costs. Tax information is available online to help you and your family prepare Federal Income Tax paperwork. If you need more information, see the Payment FAQs or contact Student Business Services. Related Links Financial Aid FAQs University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies