Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility About Leadership Leadership Dr. Rita Kirk William F. May Endowed Director Rita Kirk holds the rank of Professor at SMU as both an Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor and a Meadows Distinguished Professor. Kirk has been awarded both the prestigious “M” Award and the Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award by the SMU student body. As an academic, she is recognized for her analysis of political and persuasive campaigns. She is the author of several award-winning books and numerous articles, including Political Empiricism: Communications Strategies in State and Regional Elections; Hate Speech, a book analyzing implications for hate discourse in public communication, with coeditor David Slayden; and Soundbite Culture: The Death of Discourse in a Wired World. Specializing in communication strategy, she has more than 30 years of experience as a strategist for city council, mayoral, state, U.S. Representative, and gubernatorial races. In addition to her political consulting, she has served as a communication consultant to several national and multinational corporations on public policy matters. Kirk and research colleague Dan Schill conducted dial tests for CNN and ABC-Hearst/Argyll during the 2008 Presidential primary and general elections debates and continue to work with them during Presidential State of the Union addresses. Kirk holds a bachelor's degree in Communication/Political Science and a master's degree in communications, both from the University of Arkansas. She received her Ph.D. in Communications from the University of Missouri. Candy Crespo Associate Director Candy Crespo is the associate director of the Maguire Ethics Center where she oversees the day-to-day operations of the Maguire Ethics Center and is responsible for developing meaningful programming and partnerships. She is an adjunct professor in Corporate Communications and Public Affairs at SMU and has more than ten years of experience as a leader in higher education. She finds great joy in working with students and faculty to create powerful learning environments. Before joining SMU, Candy worked in public affairs and policy research at the Glover Park Group in Washington, D.C. There, she provided strategic public affairs support for clients and specialized in research-driven policy campaigns, opinion research and reputation branding. Her work experience also includes extensive non-profit management and communication research at domestic and international non-governmental organizations including The Ormylia Center, Ormylia, Greece; The Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers, London, England; and The Harwood Museum of Art, Taos, New Mexico. Candy worked for CNN as a focus group facilitator for their live coverage of the Presidential Debates and State of the Union Address. Candy holds a B.A. in corporate communications and public affairs and an M.Ed. in higher education policy and leadership from SMU. She completed the Harvard Graduate School of Education Management Development Program in 2018. She is a co-author and editor of the bookEthics at the Heart of Higher Education. Candy is an avid equestrian and lives with her husband and daughter in Dallas. Adria Richmond Program Specialist & Lead Designer Adria Richmond is the program specialist and lead designer of the Maguire Center. Richmond co-manages daily operations of the Center including the Maguire Public Service Fellowship program and Center student staffers. In addition, she co-manages the Center’s annual fundraising and academic events and prepares correspondence and reports, including the Center's annual report. Richmond manages the creation of internal and external marketing and design and is the producer of the Ethics Center’s podcast “SoundEthics.” She serves on SMU President R. Gerald Turner’s Commission on the Status of Women at the University. Richmond joined the Maguire Center from SMU Global and Online where she served as Assistant Manager of the Summer Youth Program. Before joining the SMU family, she served as Special Projects Manager at the National Math + Science Initiative, coordinating teacher trainings and conferences on a national scale. Richmond graduated from Baylor University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre and a minor in Anthropology. She completed the Writers in New York program at New York University, and was invited to the Yale University Writer’s Conference in New Haven, Connecticut. She holds a Master of Liberal Studies with a concentration in Humanities from SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development. About Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share