Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Biomedical Engineering Home About Future Students Current Students Research Contact Us Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home Welcome from the Chair Mission, Vision, & Diversity Statements News Open positions Take Action Biomedical Engineering Degrees Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Biomedical Engineering Welcome Team MicroFlow Fall 2021 Outstanding Biomedical Engineering Senior Design Project Winner: Team MicroFlow At the end of the Fall 2021 semester, three participating teams competed for the Best Senior Design Project competition and a $500 cash prize. Team MicroFlow was named the winner! Team MicroFlow from left to right: Uogita Dintakurthi, Jena Masler, William Coley, Darwin Ramirez Alvarez Team members: Jena Masler, Uogita Dintakurthi, William Coley, Darwin Ramirez Alvarez Team advisors: Dr. Ernő Lindner and Dr. Bradford Pendley, faculty BME Department Problem statement: There is a need for an inexpensive, single-use, small volume electrochemical flow cell to be used in conjunction with screen printed electrodes in clinical, pharmaceutical, research and environmental chemistry. Design description: The MicroFlow flow cell is based on a sandwich design in which commercial screen-printed electrodes are easily sandwiched using a silicone rubber gasket to prevent leakage between two chemically inert outer methacrylate casings. The top casing is equipped with elbow connectors for attachment of tubing for delivery of test analytes into the small volume flow cell chamber (10-50μL). Laminar flow within the flow cell chamber was validated using computational fluid dynamic modeling for optimal sensor reading. MicroFlow sensor response matched that of a commercial flow cell but at a cost of only around $20. Figure 1: Sandwich Assembly including 1) Outer Casing, methacrylate 2) Injectech elbow connectors 1/16”, nylon x2 3) Flow Cell, methacrylate 4) Gasket, silicone rubber (0.5mm thickness) 5) Metrohm DropSens® 110D Screen-Printed Electrode Statement of Project Impact: Current flow cells for continuous monitoring and micro-volume sample analysis are expensive, bulky, and often inconvenient for quick usage. To combat this issue, our team designed an inexpensive, single use, small volume flow cell for screen printed electrodes available for various usages such as in clinical, pharmaceutical, research and environmental chemistry. From Team MicroFlow: The MicroFlow team would like to acknowledge our mentors Dr. Pendley and Dr. Lindner for guiding us through the design process and pushing us to be the best engineers we can be. All of the team members learned to coordinate our strengths in separate fields to create the best design for the MicroFlow device. TeamMicroflow at Fall 2021 presentation to Advisory Board members (left to right: Uogita Jena Masler, Dintakurthi, Darwin Ramirez Alvare, William Coley) Assembled micro flow cell (blue arrow) with screen printed electrochemical sensor (yellow arrow) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.