COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts: College of Health Professions WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita College of Health Professions Fast Facts CHP students have unparalleled applied learning opportunities with clinical affiliation sites in 45 out of 50 states—from large hospitals and private practices to local schools and neighborhood clinics. Offers a full range of nationally accredited degrees, exclusive programs, the latest technology and virtually limitless access to industry experts, practical experience and jobs. The college features the first and only physician assistant program in the state and the only bachelor of dental hygiene program at a Kansas Regents university. From large hospitals to small clinics WSU’s location in Kansas’ health care hub gives students more opportunities to make connections, build a resume, land their dream job and work beside some of the best professionals in their field through clinical rotations, applied learning and community outreach. Health Professions graduates enjoy some of the highest job placement rates in Kansas—at clinics, hospitals, labs, nursing homes and schools throughout the state. Ahlberg Hall is equipped with the latest tools and technology including high-tech equipment, labs and distance-education classrooms. The Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic features 24 operatories, dispensary and reception area, five radiology areas and an infection control center. WSU’s Advanced Education in General Dentistry (AEGD) program is a postdoctoral education program for new dentists. The program operates the Delta Dental of Kansas Dental Clinic, providing high-quality, affordable dental care for the community. WSU Old Town features a state-of-the-art simulation hospital, labor and delivery area, and surgical lab; and the physician assistant and physical therapy graduate degree programs. WSU’s School of Nursing offers an early admission option for WSU freshmen declaring a major in nursing. The university offers Kansas’ only accelerated nursing program from a state university, turning qualified students into qualified nurses in less than 18 months. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©