Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Sports Media Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Sports Media Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Sports Media Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Sports Media Undergraduate Certificate Gain experience and expertise in the fields of advertising, communications, journalism, marketing, media and public relations with the Sports Media Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s Lew Klein College of Media and Communication. This 18-credit undergraduate certificate program is aimed at enhancing the future employment prospects for any student interested in the field of sports media. Through an innovative curriculum, students will develop a greater understanding of the coverage of sport as well as the cultural impact sport has on society. Students in the Sports Media Certificate will also spend time examining the perspectives of race, ethnicity, culture, gender, sexual orientation, class and demographics as they pertain to sports media and sports media representation. Writing skills and research methodology are areas of focus as well within the rigorous cross-disciplinary curriculum of the Sports Media Certificate program. Classes & Curriculum The 18-credit Sports Media Certficate program may be completed in up to two years, with classes taught primarily on Temple’s Main Campus. Classes you are likely to take as part of the program include the following. Advanced Sports Reporting Beyond the Lines: Producing Sports Journalism Communicating Sports Statistics and Data The Influence of Sports Media on Modern Society Learn more about courses and requirements for the Sports Media Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Journalism MJ Media Studies and Production MA Careers The aim of the Sports Media Certificate program is to produce well-educated and well-rounded students able to step immediately into the competitive sports media job market. Potential career paths for graduates include the following. Communications associate Coordinator of team relationships and public relations Entertainment development and marketing intern Production assistant Sports anchor/reporter Video production assistant Sports media analyst and Temple alumnus, Kevin Negandhi, speaks on Main Campus. Photo credit: Joseph V. Labolito Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Our academic advisors will help you stay on track to graduate and ensure you remain on a clear professional path. Walk-in advising is available in the first two weeks of the semester for students who need assistance with any registration issues. Express advising is available for students throughout the rest of the semester. Advisors answer routine questions in 15-minute sessions. For more in-depth, personalized assistance, students may make appointments. To schedule an appointment or ask a question, contact our advising office. Email: advise@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5273 You can also contact the advising office through TUportal under the Klein College tab. The Klein Advising Office, which serves all Klein majors, is located at the following address. Student Affairs/Advising Annenberg Hall, Room 9 2020 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Important Dates Our academic calendar includes an overview of all relevant upcoming dates. Learn more about academic advising in the Sports Media Certificate (Undergraduate). Program Contact Arlene Notoro-Morgan, assistant dean for external affairs in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication, is the program contact for the Sports Media Certificate (Undergraduate). Email: anotoro@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-4816 CO-SPTM-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Sports Media Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info