COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Teaching - Early Childhood Unified Residency, Master's Master'sTeaching - Early Childhood Unified Residency All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Whether you’re a recent college graduate or a working professional, Wichita State’s Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program will help you gain the knowledge and practical skills vital to becoming a well-prepared, licensed teacher. Learn how Teaching - Early Childhood Unified Residency is the right fit for you. Request Info Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The program is open to individuals who have: Completed at least a BA/BS degree from an accredited institution A minimum GPA of 3.0 in last 60 hours, OR a GPA of 2.750 in last 60 hours combined with Miller Analogies Test score of at least 40 or GRE score Passed a criminal background check that they obtain at their own expense For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Make a difference to the children of Kansas Do you want to be a part of helping stop the teacher shortage in Kansas? WSU's Teacher Apprentice Program lets para educators earn their bachelor's in early education while already working in the classroom. The fully online program is already producing more teachers who can help guide the youth of Kansas. Learn more Curriculum The early childhood unified residency (ECU-R) track is offered for students seeking initial KSDE license in early childhood unified: birth–third grade. The graduate-level initial licensure program consists of 36 credit hours of coursework, student teaching and a capstone project or thesis. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©