Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Careers For Employers Get information on recruitment, hiring, workshops, and posting jobs with SIPA, the world's most global public policy school. *Columbia SIPA is committed to diversity and inclusion. The Career Advancement Center looks forward to partnering with our employers in this important initiative. You are here Home Careers Hiring SIPA Students and Graduates SIPA is the world's most global public policy school; students trained at SIPA not only have the skills to lead in organizations, but also the background and global perspective to address today's challenges. Learn More About Our Programs On-Campus Recruitment CAC welcomes employers to visit the campus to interact with SIPA students and promote their organizations. To take advantage of these services, please contact Patricia Macken, Director of Employer Relations, via email at [email protected] or telephone at (212) 854-4654. Learn More About On-Campus Recruitment Offer a Workshop Capstone workshops apply the practical skills and analytical knowledge learned at SIPA to a real-world issue. Students are organized into small consulting teams and assigned a substantive, policy-oriented project with an external client. Learn more about capstone workshops Post a Position With SIPA SIPAlink is an online recruitment database that allows employers to do much more than just advertise opportunities to SIPA students and alumni. Learn more about posting positions with SIPA Employer FAQs WHAT ARE CURRENT FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS REGARDING COMPENSATION FOR INTERNSHIPS? CAC expects all employers to provide compensation for internships to the extent required by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and other applicable wage and hour laws. We have included a link to information provided by the US Department of Labor on internship programs for your convenience: http://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/whdfs71.pdf. This information describes seven factors for an employer to consider in determining whether an intern must be paid as an employee under the FLSA: The extent to which the intern and the employer clearly understand that there is no expectation of compensation. Any promise of compensation, express or implied, suggests that the intern is an employee—and vice versa. The extent to which the internship provides training that would be similar to that which would be given in an educational environment, including the clinical and other hands-on training provided by educational institutions. The extent to which the internship is tied to the intern’s formal education program by integrated coursework or the receipt of academic credit. The extent to which the internship accommodates the intern’s academic commitments by corresponding to the academic calendar. The extent to which the internship’s duration is limited to the period in which the internship provides the intern with beneficial learning. The extent to which the intern’s work complements, rather than displaces, the work of paid employees while providing significant educational benefits to the intern. The extent to which the intern and the employer understand that the internship is conducted without entitlement to a paid job at the conclusion of the internship. The NY State Department of Labor considers additional factors in determining whether an intern must be paid under New York state law. These factors are summarized at the following link: https://www.labor.ny.gov/formsdocs/factsheets/pdfs/p725.pdf. SIPA CAC expects employers posting internships taking place in other states to adhere to the wage and hour laws applicable to that employer at the internship site. Given the cost of higher education and the value interns bring to an organization, CAC encourages organizations that are not required to pay interns to consider paying interns or providing other forms of support, such as a travel allowance, meal per diem, housing, and/or stipend. If you are a nonprofit (501(c) (3)) organization or a public sector agency and have an internship to advertise, you might be eligible to participate in our Federal Work-Study Program. Information can be found at the following website: http://sfs.columbia.edu/content/becoming-work-study-employer-campus. How do I receive resumes if I have posted a position on SIPAlink? Applications can be sent directly to the employer via the email address or employer website indicated in the posting, or they can be submitted through SIPAlink. When applications are submitted through SIPAlink, applications are either sent to the employer as they are submitted or held in the system until a future deadline. The employer then retrieves them from the system or they are sent to the employer by a CAC staff member. Having applicants submit their materials through SIPAlink allows for the employer contact information to be concealed. How do I promote my company or organization to SIPA students if I do not have immediate hiring needs? You are welcome to visit SIPA even if you don't have immediate hiring needs. We are happy to arrange an information session in which you may speak about your organization and typical hiring needs. Information sessions provide valuable promotional visibility for your organization and the opportunity to meet talented SIPA students and learn about SIPA and its programs. Organizations may send a senior executive, human resources representative, or SIPA alumna/us to present an on-campus information session. We encourage presenters to talk about their culture, and organization and describe typical graduate-level career paths and opportunities. If you are interested in an employer information session, contact Patricia Macken, Director of Employer Relations, at 212-854-4654 or [email protected]. How do I hire an international student? International students offer a wide range of skills and abilities, including multiple languages and cross-cultural skills, maturity, flexibility, proven ability to adapt to new situations, and knowledge of work practices in another country. International students generally hold F-1 (student) visas while studying in the United States. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) permits students to undertake internships during their studies and full-time employment for a specific period of time after graduation for practical training. The INS defines practical training as paid employment related to the student's field of study. If you have questions about hiring international students, please consult your human resources department or refer to the Columbia University International Students and Scholars office at www.columbia.edu/cu/isso. How do I hire a Work-Study Program student? If you are a nonprofit (501(c)(3)) organization or city agency, you may be eligible to participate in the Federal Work-Study Program. The program provides funding for citizens or permanent residents of the U.S., who have been awarded financial aid funding. If you are interested in participating in the program, please contact us at 212-854-4613 or [email protected]. Can my organization participate in the Washington D.C. Conference or NYC Career Series? CAC sponsors two major career conferences each year: the Washington D.C. Conference held in January, and the NYC Career Series held throughout the academic year. They consist of career panels, a reception and informational interviews with professionals. Employers are welcome to share their career knowledge and promote their organizations by hosting a site visit during the Washington D.C. Career Conference and/or participating in a career panel during the NYC Career Series. These conferences provide opportunities for you to meet bright and talented SIPA students and to share knowledge of your career field, which is valuable to our student body. If you are interested in participating, please e-mail [email protected]. How do I hire a student for an overseas summer internship? Many students from SIPA intern overseas during the summer for NGOs, businesses, and international organizations. If your organization has staffing needs in an overseas office, we would be happy to advertise these openings to our students. The Office of Career Services provides a small stipend to help students with their travel costs. However, any stipend, living allowances, or housing assistance that an organization can provide are very helpful and greatly appreciated. To post an overseas internship, please contact us at 212-854-4613 or [email protected]. Meet SIPA's distinguished alumni Contact Us Career Advancement Center (CAC) Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-4613 212-854-6190 [email protected] Hours: Monday - Friday | 9:00am to 5:00pm Connect with CAC Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Share This Lisa Mueller-Dormann Video of Lisa Mueller-Dormann Student Perspective The HR concentration allowed me to engage with practitioners from Human Rights Watch, Amnesty, and the Open Society Foundation... Lisa Mueller-Dormann MIA Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216