Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the Provost Menu Search TTU Office of the Provost Provost Communications Update to Pandemic Related Teaching and Classroom Guidance For Guidance to Instructors of Record in Face-to-Face and Hybrid Courses When Notified by a Student that the Student Has Tested Positive for COVID-19, click here. Reviewed & updated: Jan. 4, 2022; Dec. 20, 2021; Issued: Aug. 13, 2021 The Office of the Provost has updated pandemic-related guidance pertaining to in-person classroom instruction, as provided herein. Much of the previous guidance available on Provost office webpages as “Academic Affairs Resources and Information for Covid-19 Response” is deactivated and is superseded by this updated guidance. Building- and facilities-specific information may be stated elsewhere by the Operations Division or the respective college or school. The University continues to monitor federal and state guidelines as they may change in light of the Delta and Omicron variants and will further update teaching and classroom guidance as warranted. Information for faculty and students on reporting cases, testing and vaccinations please visit TTU's COVID-19 Response. Classrooms, Absences, Modality, Other Face coverings, although optional, are recommended and welcome; students, faculty, and staff who wish to wear them are encouraged to do so. Instructors of record may encourage (but not require) their classes to wear face masks. Plans remain prepared to deliver a more normal schedule of courses in face-to-face modality with up to 100% capacity. However, Instructors of Record may request a temporary change in course modality for up to three weeks, until Feb. 4. This request should be made to the department chair, who will forward the request to the Dean. Deans will approve or deny these requests and that information should be forwarded to the Office of the Provost. Deans may authorize lower enrollment caps or moves to larger teaching spaces for courses and classrooms under their direct jurisdiction, but generally, concerns about large class capacities and closer social distancing should be addressed by encouraging (but not requiring) wearing face coverings. Generally, student absences due to illness are to be considered as they were prior to the pandemic, with consideration given to the fact that students who are isolating with COVID-19 and students who are quarantining for symptoms or direct exposure may have extended days of absence. Makeup opportunities should be provided in a reasonable timeframe. Students who test positive for COVID-19 are to report the diagnosis at https://ttucovid19.ttu.edu/User/Consent. Doing so will generate a letter that students may present to their instructors as documentation in support of absences and will also trigger notification to the Dean of Students office, which in turn will notify the student's dean's office. Students who directly inform their instructors of having a known exposure to a COVID-19 positive person should be directed by the instructor to contact Student Health Services at 806-743-2848. Instructors who receive this guidance should refer to the guidance on students who report a positive result. There is no expectation that courses scheduled as face-to-face must provide an online option to students who report testing positive for COVID-19 or who are isolating or quarantining for exposure to someone with COVID-19. However, plans should be made to provide remote options or makeup opportunities in case instructors or students test positive or must quarantine during final exams or scheduled defenses. Faculty and staff should prepare for the possibility that a rapid pivot to online instruction may be required. Advise students (e.g., in the course syllabus) of technical and equipment requirements, such as web cam, microphone, and remote proctoring software, should a temporary or longer pivot be necessary. Students in academic programs and service activities involving small children (<12 years of age per the CDC) on campus are strongly encouraged to wear face masks while with the children. Students in off-campus internships, practicums, student teaching, and service learning engagements are expected to adhere to the protocols in place by the hosting third party. What do I need to communicate to students before the start of classes? At least a couple of days before the start of classes, e-mail your students to highlight class expectations. Introduce yourself, be positive about the upcoming term and the content and objectives of your course, inform them of required textbooks or other course materials they need to acquire, and that you would like to outline a few expectations for everyone to have as they come to the first class period. Remind students that face coverings, although optional, are recommended and welcome, especially for those who have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or who may have susceptibilities to the virus. It is also important to stress to students that CDC guidelines require riders of Citibus and other public transportation systems to wear face masks. Let students know that Texas Tech University Operations Division will continue to provide sanitization stations across campus along with enhanced facilities cleaning practices. What about student appointments and meetings? We expect to have more normal activity in in-person advising, office hours, and academic support interactions. Face masks will be optional but may be recommended, and social distancing may be applicable where feasible and conducive to interaction. All virtual interactions should only take place via TTU approved and supported online meeting technologies. What new information should I provide in my course syllabi? Vaccinations: Texas Tech University strongly recommends students adhere to CDC guidelines on COVID-19, including obtaining COVID-19 vaccinations. If you were unable to obtain a vaccination prior to your arrival on campus, the COVID-19 vaccine is available at Student Health Services by appointment. You can find additional information about the vaccine and campus vaccine clincs here. Face Covering Policy: As of May 19, 2021, face coverings are optional in TTU facilities and classrooms but, based on CDC guidelines, are recommended and welcome, especially for those who have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or who may have susceptibilities to the virus. Face coverings are required in public transportation (e.g., Citibus) and in the Student Health Clinic. [Also, as may be applicable to a course, note the earlier bullet points about face coverings while working with small children and in third-party off-campus placements.] Seating Charts and Social Distancing: There is not a mandated social distancing protocol for classroom seating, but using a seating chart and taking attendance are recommended in support of campus contact tracers if needed. Social distancing is recommended in rooms that will enable it. Illness-related Absences: Instructors of Record may provide their own statement here keeping in mind that, generally, student absences due to illness are to be considered as they were prior to the pandemic, with consideration given to the fact that students who are isolating with COVID-19 and students who are quarantining for symptoms or direct exposure may have extended days of absence. Makeup opportunities should be provided in a reasonable timeframe. Direct students to the guidance for students at the COVID-19 page (https://www.depts.ttu.edu/communications/emergency/coronavirus/). In-Person Office Hours: Instrutors of Record may provide their own statement here with a provision that, for in-person office hours, masks are optional and welcome. Intstructors of Record concerned about the relative close proximity of in-office visits may request (but not require) students to wear masks when attending in-office visits, utilize social distancing as feasible, or arrange for office visits in large spaces (e.g., vacant classrooms). Virtual office hours may also be offered but should not be wholly in lieu of in-person opportunities. Personal Hygiene: We all should continue to practice frequent hand washing, use hand sanitizers after touching high-touch points (e.g., door handles, shared keyboards, etc.), and cover faces when coughing or sneezing. Potential Changes: The University will continue to monitor CDC, State, and TTU System guidelines in continuing to manage the campus implications of COVID-19. Any changes affecting class policies or delivery modality will be in accordance with those guidelines and announced as soon as possible. If Texas Tech University campus operations are required to change because of health concerns related to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is possible that this course will move to a fully online delivery format. Should that be necessary, students will be advised of technical and equipment requirements, such as web cam, microphone, and remote proctoring software. Comments and questions about implementing and communicating Spring 2022 classroom instruction protocols may be directed to Senior Vice Provost Rob Stewart or Vice Provost Mitzi Lauderdale. Office of the Provost Address 104 Administration Building, Box 42019, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2019 Phone 806.742.2184 Email provost.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 15, 2022 10:48 AM