Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance You are here: Home Training Training Finance Training Finance Training offers a series of training programs to help you learn more about Columbia’s financial systems, policies, and procedures. Read on to learn more about: Our training library Upcoming training sessions Getting access to financial systems and the required trainings Browse the Training Library Explore our extensive library of job aids, web-based trainings, instructor-led courses, and other training resources. Job Aids Our job aids are quick reference guides that offer step-by-step instructions, including screenshots, for completing financial-related activities. /training-library#/service-images/term/363 Web-Based Our online, self-paced classes provide detailed information and recorded simulations of financial transactions. /training-library#/service-images/term/361 Instructor-Led We also offer classroom-based, instructor-led courses. Upcoming Training Sessions Jun7Tue Endowment Administration and Compliance Virtual class via Zoom (Meeting URL provided via e-mail upon registration) 9:30 AM - 11:00 AM Jun9Thu Concur Travel and Expense Basics Virtual class via Zoom (Meeting URL provided via e-mail upon registration) 2:00 PM - 3:30 PM Jun21Tue Concur Travel and Expense Basics Virtual class via Zoom (Meeting URL provided via e-mail upon registration) 10:30 AM - 12:00 PM More Events Find Required Trainings By Role Training is required to access certain systems or to obtain a particular role. Visit Required Trainings by Role. Getting Access to Financial Systems Take the Getting Access to Finance Systems web-based training to learn about the systems and roles you might need for your job and how to apply for access. A handbook is available which is designed to assist faculty and staff who need to request and/or approve system access to any of the Columbia University financial systems. View the Finance Security Handbook. Once you know which systems you would like to request access to, you will need to complete the Financial Systems Security Application (FSSA), or, for reporting and inquiry only access to ARC, you can complete the Financial Inquiry Application (FIA). Our Team Look up our team in the Finance Organizational Charts. Finance Organizational Charts Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close