Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Prominent campus spaces named for Nobel laureates Toni Morrison and Arthur Lewis by the Office of Communications April 18, 2017, 3:05 p.m. Princeton University trustees have approved a recommendation to name West College for the Nobel Laureate Toni Morrison. Morrison is the Robert F. Goheen Professor in the Humanities, Emerita, at Princeton, and a recipient of the 1993 Nobel Prize in literature. The recommendation was made by the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) Committee on Naming, which was established to advise the trustees on the naming of "buildings or other spaces not already named for historical figures or donors to recognize individuals who would bring a more diverse presence to the campus." Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Princeton University's trustees have approved recommendations to name West College, a prominent and central campus building, for the Nobel laureate Toni Morrison, an emeritus faculty member at Princeton, and to name the major auditorium in the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs for Sir Arthur Lewis, a Nobel laureate in Economics, who served on the school's faculty from 1963 to 1983. The name of former University President Harold Dodds will be transferred from the auditorium to the adjacent atrium that serves as the entryway into Robertson Hall. The new names will take effect on July 1. The recommendations were made by the Council of the Princeton University Community (CPUC) Committee on Naming, a committee composed of faculty, students, staff and alumni that was established in the fall of 2016 to advise the trustees on the naming of "buildings or other spaces not already named for historical figures or donors to recognize individuals who would bring a more diverse presence to the campus." The committee made its recommendations after seeking suggestions from throughout the University community, including through a website that provided background information about the two spaces that the trustees asked it to consider. More than 210 people submitted suggestions through the website. Morrison Hall Toni Morrison is the Robert F. Goheen Professor in the Humanities, Emerita, at Princeton and a recipient of the 1993 Nobel Prize in literature. She was the first African American to be awarded the Nobel Prize in literature. Morrison taught courses at Princeton in the humanities and African American studies. One of her courses led to a book entitled "Playing in the Dark." After several years she joined the creative writing program where she advised such students as David Treuer, Ladee Hubbard, Kate Morgenroth, MacKenzie Tuttle and Rachel Kadish, now published writers. Her arrival helped to attract other faculty and students of color to Princeton, and she played a catalytic role in expanding Princeton's commitments both to the creative and performing arts and to African American studies. In 1994 she founded the Princeton Atelier, bringing together undergraduate students in interdisciplinary collaborations with acclaimed artists and performers such as Jacques d'Amboise, A.S. Byatt, Peter Sellars, Yo-Yo Ma, Richard Danielpour, Bernice Johnson Reagon, Gabriel Garcia Márquez, Anonymous 4, Richard Price, Pig Iron Theatre Company, Maria Tucci and Allegra Kent among others. In 1996 she gave the keynote address — "The Place of the Idea, The Idea of the Place" — as Princeton celebrated its 250th anniversary, and in 2013 the University awarded her an honorary doctorate. In addition to the Nobel Prize, Morrison won a National Book Critics Circle Award for "Song of Solomon" in 1977; a Pulitzer Prize for "Beloved" in 1988; the Commandeur de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 1993; the National Humanities Medal in 2000; the Ordre National de la Légion d'honneur in 2010; and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2012. She was honored with the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Emerson-Thoreau Medal in 2017. Morrison Hall and Nassau Hall, as seen across Cannon Green. Photo by Nick Barberio, Office of Communications In 2016 the Princeton University Library announced that the major portion of Morrison's papers, which had been part of the permanent library collections since 2014, were open for research to students, faculty and scholars worldwide. In announcing that her papers would be permanently housed at Princeton, Princeton University President Christopher L. Eisgruber said: "Toni Morrison's place among the giants of American literature is firmly entrenched… We at Princeton are fortunate that Professor Morrison brought her brilliant talents as a writer and teacher to our campus 25 years ago, and we are deeply honored to house her papers and to help preserve her inspiring legacy." In its report to the trustees, the Naming Committee recommended "that Princeton further preserve Toni Morrison's legacy — and especially her commitments to teaching, to the arts, to diversity and inclusion, and to 'The Place of the Idea, The Idea of the Place' — by inscribing her name on the building that stands at the heart of the undergraduate academic and co-curricular experience at Princeton, housing as it does, among other offices, the dean of the college, the dean of undergraduate students, and the offices of admission, financial aid and the registrar." West College is one of the oldest buildings on the Princeton campus. It was initially constructed in 1836 as a dormitory on the west side of Cannon Green, across from a dormitory known as East College that had been constructed two years earlier and that was removed in 1897 to make way for Pyne Library, which is now known as East Pyne. From the beginning, the "west" in West College referred only to the fact that it was located to the west of Cannon Green. Arthur Lewis Auditorium Princeton trustees also have approved a recommendation to name the major auditorium in the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs for Sir Arthur Lewis, a Nobel laureate in economics, who served on the school's faculty from 1963 to 1983. Photo by Robert Matthews The Naming Committee noted that Sir W. Arthur Lewis "is an example of someone who brought distinction and diversity to this campus over many years, but whose accomplishments and impact are not known to succeeding generations of Princetonians." Lewis joined the Princeton faculty in 1963 as a professor of economics and international affairs, and later was appointed the James Madison Professor of Political Economy. He taught undergraduate and graduate courses in economic development and economic history. The New York Times reported that "students praised Sir Arthur's courses for focusing on ideas rather than numbers." He retired from the faculty in 1983, but remained associated with the University in emeritus status until his death in 1991. Lewis was knighted in 1963. In 1979 he won the Nobel Prize in economics. A native of St. Lucia, he was the first person of African descent to be appointed a professor in Great Britain's university system. Over the course of his career he published over 80 professional articles and wrote 12 books. Lewis' Nobel Prize recognized his pioneering research into economic development, with particular consideration of the problems of developing countries. In making its recommendation, the Naming Committee noted that "the scope of his research was truly international, and in our judgment it is important to have that message — along with a message about diversity and inclusion — associated with Princeton's School of Public and International Affairs." Beyond his scholarly distinction and commitment to teaching, Lewis also epitomized the Princeton tradition of public service. He served as economic adviser to the government of Ghana when it gained independence in 1957 and served as a consultant to such other nations as Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Nigeria and Barbados. He served as the first West Indian-born principal and then vice chancellor of the University of the West Indies; chancellor of the University of Guyana; managing director of the United Nations Special Fund; and first president of the Caribbean Development Bank. Arthur Lewis Community College on his home island of St. Lucia is named in his honor. In this photo from the 1970s, Sir Arthur Lewis, who served as the James Madison Professor of Political Economy at Princeton, gives a lecture in the auditorium at the Woodrow Wilson School. As of July 1, the auditorium will be named the Arthur Lewis Auditorium. Photo courtesy of the Lewis Family Dodds Atrium In making its recommendation that the auditorium in Robertson Hall be named for Arthur Lewis, the Naming Committee noted that it is one of the most prominent teaching spaces in the school in which he taught. The committee also noted the critical administrative roles that Harold Dodds played in the development of the Woodrow Wilson School, first as chair of the faculty committee that initially directed the school, and then as Princeton's 15th president. During his presidency he helped raise the funds necessary to provide endowment support for the school, create a graduate program, and construct the building now known as Corwin Hall, which originally was located at the corner of Washington Road and Prospect Avenue and was known as Woodrow Wilson Hall. As part of the recommendations made by the CPUC Committee on Naming, the atrium in Robertson Hall will be named Dodds Atrium in honor of Harold Willis Dodds, Princeton's 15th president. The atrium is the principal entryway in the Wilson School. Dodds served as University President from 1933 to 1957. Paul Trebilcock, American, 1902-1981; "Harold Willis Dodds (1889-1980), President (1933-57), 1953"; Oil on canvas; 178 x 103.8 cm.; Princeton University, anonymous gift (PP250) © Paul Trebilcock; Photo: PUAM/Bruce M. White. "The atrium in Robertson Hall serves as the principal entryway into the Wilson School, and in our view it would be more than fitting to name that space for Harold Dodds, in honor of his central role in creating the school, while naming the auditorium for Arthur Lewis," the committee wrote. "Because there are other facilities at Princeton, including a science library and a center for the arts, named for another Lewis, we strongly encourage that the name of the auditorium be the Arthur Lewis Auditorium, and that there be appropriate iconography to introduce future generations to the enormous contributions that Arthur Lewis made to this University and to the world." Eisgruber said, "I am very grateful to the Naming Committee for these excellent recommendations, and I am delighted that Princeton will now be able to honor and commemorate Toni Morrison and Arthur Lewis for their pioneering contributions to this University and to the world, while also continuing to recognize the leadership of President Dodds in helping to create the school that brought Arthur Lewis to Princeton. "By taking these steps we begin to recognize more completely the extraordinary range of individuals and groups that have made this University what it is today, and to inscribe upon the fabric of our campus a fuller account not only of Princeton's history, but also of the commitments to both excellence and inclusivity that must guide our aspirations for the future." The CPUC Naming Committee is chaired by Professor Angela N.H. Creager (History). Its members include Professors Stephen J. Macedo (Politics and the University Center for Human Values), Alejandro W. Rodriguez (Electrical Engineering), and Stacey A. Sinclair (Psychology and African American Studies); undergraduates Myesha Jemison, Class of 2018, and Devin B. Kilpatrick, Class of 2019; graduate student Jonathan C. Aguirre (Spanish and Portuguese); alumnus Osbourne A. Shaw, Jr., Class of 1997, assistant vice president for human resources Romy E. Riddick, and vice president and secretary Robert K. Durkee, Class of 1969. Reflections on racial justice and Woodrow Wilson View All News President Eisgruber's message to community on removal of Woodrow Wilson name from public policy school and Wilson College University News: Read more President Eisgruber calls on University leadership to confront realities and legacy of racism at every level of our institution University News: Read more Statement from President Eisgruber on the killing of George Floyd and the importance of confronting racism University News: Read more University dedicates marker addressing the complex legacy of Woodrow Wilson Diversity & Inclusion: Read more Four new portraits serve as ‘visible expression of Princeton’ today Diversity & Inclusion: Read more Campus roadway will be named for pioneering African American alumnus and Princeton resident Robert Rivers Diversity & Inclusion: Read more African American life at Princeton is first in series of historical walking tours Diversity & Inclusion: Read more Princeton will commission new portraits to update and diversify University collection Diversity & Inclusion: Read more Trustees name garden for Betsey Stockton, arch for Jimmy Johnson Diversity & Inclusion: Read more Princeton research project explores past ties to slavery University News: Read more Princeton's informal motto recast to emphasize service to humanity: Read more Trustees call for expanded commitment to diversity and inclusion Diversity & Inclusion: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice