Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Programs Undergraduate Programs M.Eng. Degree in Ithaca Financial Engineering Concentration and Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan (CFEM) Ph.D. Program M.Eng. Degree at Cornell Tech Courses Research ORACL ORIE Research Groups ORIE Research in the News Covid Modeling Event People Academic Leadership Faculty Graduate Students Faculty Openings Staff Ph.D. Students on the Job Market Alumni Giving Opportunities ORIE Magazine Alumni Listing: PhD & MEng Alumni Spotlights Get Involved Recruit Students ORIE Advisory Council CFEM Advisory Council Resources ORIE Commencement Faculty Resources Academic Support Undergraduate Resources M.Eng. Resources Experience and Employment Mental Health Resources ORIE Events Open the search panel Menu Search Close Financial Engineering Concentration and Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan (CFEM) Connect with us! Current Headlines CFEM Goes Global! CFEM is proud to announce several international partnerships for capstone projects in the upcoming Fall 2022 semester. One such sponsor is Covario, an award-winning Crypto Prime Broker based in Zug, Switzerland. Covario will collaborate with a team of CFEM students to answer the relevant industry question of "How Might We Use Order Limit Book Data on Centralized Crypto Exchanges to Make Short-Term Price Predictions?" To learn more about the people spearheading this project, we invite you to read the post on Covario's blog. With Covario, we are confident that exciting and innovative work lies ahead! In response to the war in Ukraine, MFE '22 Ivan Kosyuk has shown real leadership. We asked him to share his personal account of all that he has done to help. You can learn more at the link - our MFE students continue to innovate in giving back to the larger community! In October 2021, CFEM hosted an all-women's forum with Rachel Marshak, Managing Director and Head of Convertible Trading at Piper Sandler. The group discussed her career trajectory, as well as the specific challenges that women in finance face. Details about their enlightening discussion can be found here. CFEM Testimonials "CFEM is a community where you can not only gain solid academic experience, but also exchange state-of-the-art insights with outstanding practitioners. You will stand at the cutting edge of the industry." - Hubery Wang, MFE Class of 2019 "The MFE program will equip you with the tools and knowledge you need to succeed. You can tailor your coursework to a specific career path while also building knowledge in fundamental areas." - Sagar Mehta, MFE Class of 2020 Check out our latest brochure highlighting Cornell MFE over the past 10 years (see side menu under "Alumni Testimonials")! Formally recognized as the Master in Engineering (MEng) with Financial Concentration in the School of Operations Research and Information Engineering (ORIE), Cornell MFE is a career-oriented and application-focused degree that takes you beyond textbook quantitative finance (Cornell MFE info). With its flexible curriculum that encourages the study of data science, optimization, analytics, and computing, in addition to a broad range of courses in finance, the program has a rich history of providing the relevant and practical coursework in line with the demands of the financial industry. Graduates of the program have a U.S. degree in an approved science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) field (see information on OPT STEM Extension from the Office of Global Learning). With Cornell MFE, your career is guaranteed to begin in the classroom (Apply to Cornell MFE). Cornell MFE consists of (3) semesters (Fall-Spring-Fall) and allows for a summer internship after the first year. All students begin their studies on our scenic Ithaca campus, and they will complete their studies at Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan in the heart of New York City. For the price of one program, students have a diversity of settings to experience the full range of Cornell University. Structured to offer a flexible curriculum, Cornell MFE allows students to focus on a career track of their choice. Some of the most popular career tracks include: Trading Quantitative Portfolio Management Financial Data Science/Fintech Financial Risk Management To complete the ORIE Core Requirements, students must take a certain minimum number of credit hours from three modeling and data science modules (see chart above). While the selection of qualifying courses in each module is broad, each course is strategically hand-picked across various departments to offer students the knowledge most sought after in the field of quantitative finance. In addition, students must take certain credit-hours from the Financial Applications module for completion of the financial engineering concentration (MFE). Financial Applications Module includes courses from the Johnson Graduate School of Management and Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan (CFEM). CFEM, established in 2007 as a satellite New York City campus for Cornell MFEs, serves to connect our students with alumni and other practitioners working in the field of quantitative finance. Most of the CFEM coursework is taught by practitioners. Our practitioner lecturers work in the same field as the courses they teach (see full list of faculty). CFEM courses change year to year in response to the fast-paced needs of the financial industry. For specific qualifying courses, please see the ORIE MEng Handbook (pages 6-7 for ORIE Core and pages 11-12 for Financial Applications). Please email us for a copy of the handbook. The Financial Data Science Certificate (FDSC) is integrated in the curriculum and is designed specifically for students who are interested in deepening their knowledge of machine learning and data science applications. FDSC coursework equips students with the knowledge that brings immediate value to an organization. Upon completion, students will have solid backgrounds in each of the following: Theory: Understand the value-added and potential uses of data science in finance Data: Collect/scrape data and create data environment Application: Apply algorithms and extract insight Follow us on Facebook CFEM and LinkedIn CFEM Navigation Heading for Screen Readers Programs Financial Engineering Concentration and Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan (CFEM) Student Experience CFEM Practitioners and Faculty Professional Development Programs Placement Statistics Alumni Testimonials CFEM Alumni Brochure: Professional Development CFEM Alumni Brochure: Professional and Student Life CFEM Alumni Brochure: Ten Years, and Here's to Many More CFEM News CFEM Events Contact CFEM About Us Contact Us Directions and Maps Spotlights News Intranet Admissions: 607 255-4856 DEPT Address: 206 Rhodes Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-3801 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance