MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SUSTAINABILITY SCIENCE Apply now Home About Overview Information Sessions Faculty General FAQs Contact Us Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financing International Students Admission FAQs Curriculum Integrative Sustainability Science Capstone Workshop Earth Observation and Measurement Environmental Analysis and Modeling Scientific Response Tools Sustainability Policy and Management Students Student Resources Faculty Advisors Courses and Registration Alumni Careers More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. ▼ IMPORTANT DATES THE WORLD'S TOP SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS MS IN SUSTAINABILITY SCIENCE This program is designed for those who wish to pursue a career in technical aspects of sustainability, helping organizations better understand, predict, and address environmental impacts. Ideal candidates have an undergraduate degree in science, engineering, math or related fields. Graduates will be skilled in the practical application of scientific skills and tools to address sustainability issues and become leaders in their fields. There are full- and part-time options for those with current professional obligations. Prospectus Program Overview Those interested in a sustainability career but without an undergraduate STEM degree may be interested in the MS in Sustainability Management. OUR STUDENTS LEARN TO Use scientific methods to observe and monitor sustainability Analyze and model data to understand the environment Employ scientific tools to respond to pressing sustainability issues Integrate science in the decision-making of organizations Dr. Art Lerner-Lam Co-Director Talks@Columbia with MS in Sustainability Science Co-Director Dr. Art Lerner-Lam What Is the M.S. in Sustainability Science Program? Learn more about our program Graduates of the program are equipped to apply their knowledge to help organizations and businesses address environmental impacts and risks to their operations. Faculty: Dave Goldberg Faculty Read more about Dr. Goldberg's project on turning CO2 to stone Making Ports More Sustainable — And Why it Matters Created an index that quantifies the major environmental impacts of shipping hubs. Alumna Isabela Brown Chasing Storms and Change Alum Jeffrey Fralick Taking on the threats of climate change and incorporating sustainable practices into everyday life. Connecting Venture Capital Experience to Sustainability Alum Kevin Webb Webb comes from a career of more than 8 years in early-stage venture capital Success of NY Offshore Wind Industry Depends on Collaboration with Scallop Fishery A student asserts that wind development companies need to take fishermen’s concerns more seriously, so that both industries can coexist successfully. Capstone Workshop Curriculum Sustainability Science Capstone Workshop Investigates Microplastics in the Hudson River High soil lead (Pb) concentrations resurfacing in Red Hook, Brooklyn A soil survey of Red Hook, Brooklyn indicates that more than a third of surface soil samples did not meet the EPA standard. by Dr. Lex van Green App Will Track Harmful Dust From Bauxite Mining in Guinea Researchers at Columbia are developing an app that Guinean communities can use to hold mining companies accountable for controlling the dust they produce, which can harm health and livelihoods. To Save Giant Sequoia Trees, Maybe It’s Time to Plant Backups Alum Kevin Webb Last month, unusually high winds knocked down 15 giant sequoias in Yosemite As Electric Cars Drop in Price, They Could Become Vehicles of Racial Equity Daryush Nourbaha The rapid spread of electric vehicles will help to reduce deadly air pollution in communities historically burdened by environmental injustice. VIRTUAL EVENTS MS. in Sustainability Science Class of 2021 The Earth Institute and the School of Professional Studies at Columbia University are proud to celebrate the graduates of the Sustainability Science program. Congratulations to the Class of 2021! Watch Video Science Writing Coaching with Claudia Dreifus Would you like to produce blog posts that win large audiences and opinion pieces that newspapers and magazines will want to publish? The Earth Institute is offering free one-on-one science writing coaching with prize-winning science journalist Claudia Dreifus, contributor to the New York Times and the New York Review of Books and professor in the Masters of Sustainability Management program. Professor Dreifus will be available on Wednesdays from 3:00 to 4:30PM for 30-minute coaching sessions. She will also be available by special appointment on other days. You can request a special appointment via email. Sign up will close on the Thursday of the previous week. Students should come prepared with a written draft on a science or sustainability topic to discuss. They will receive coaching assistance on how to write a persuasive opinion or blog piece on that topic. The purpose of these sessions will be to help students turn their academic work/personal scientific and sustainability interests into a form that can find another audience. Note that these sessions will not be appropriate for students seeking help in the following areas: i) writing an academic piece for a course; ii) copyediting/rewriting; iii) helping students with written English. The Columbia University Writing Center is available as an additional resource for those topics. EMAIL Individual Sustainability Career Counseling Sessions Facilitated by career coach Cathy Gibbons, these sessions are meant to provide you with feedback on resumes and cover letters, and other forms of personalized assistance in your job search. Sign up will close on the Monday of the previous week. Cathy Gibbons has over seventeen years of experience as a career advisor. She has maintained a private practice while working at Columbia Center for Career Education. Cathy was also the Director of Alumni and Executive Master of Public Administration (EMPA) Career Services at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. Cathy specializes in career advising for graduate students and alumni. Her career advising practice is informed by her many years of experience as a director of human resources and staff development for national and international non-profits where Cathy oversaw staff recruitment and all areas of talent management. In this capacity she helped staff to build competencies, manage their careers within organizations and to make career transitions. She has had the great fortune to have lived and worked in Africa, Asia and Europe. 30 minute slots from 5:00-7:30PM Tuesday-Thursday, 9-10AM Saturday, and 11AM-Noon Sundays. Learn more CONTACT US Notice on Campus Visits In light of the evolving Covid-19 situation and the University’s guidelines for on-campus activity, Columbia University SPS Admissions has suspended all in-person campus visits. Admissions Counselors can connect you directly to students, alumni, faculty, and facilitate virtual class visits. You can also register for an information session. Our virtual events allow you to interact with our admissions staff and learn more about the Columbia SPS community. If you have any questions, please contact our office at inquire@sps.columbia.edu or 212-854-9666. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Science program, including admissions details, please contact us. Campus Visits, Graduate School Fairs & Company Presentations We are eager to host you on the Columbia University campus or to meet you at one of our information sessions. Our program offers a part-time option for working professionals. If your company would like to host an information session, please contact us. For more information about the graduate school fairs that we attend throughout the United States, please contact Chandler Precht, Associate Director at cip2113@columbia.edu. Program Contacts For all student inquiries contact: John E. Williams, Ph.D. Associate Director, Student Affairs jew2159@columbia.edu For program administration and faculty contact: Maria Gray Director mlg17@columbia.edu For media and recruitment inquiries contact: Chandler Precht Associate Director, External Affairs and Communications cip2113@columbia.edu Office of Admissions School of Professional Studies 203 Lewisohn Hall 212-854-9666 sustainability@sps.columbia.edu IMPORTANT DATES APPLICATION DEADLINES Fall 2022: May 15, 2022 Spring 2023: November 1, 2022 HBCU FELLOWSHIP DEADLINES For more information about the HBCU Fellowship, please visit this website or contact hbcu-fellowship@sps.columbia.edu. If you would like to receive more information about the M.S. in Sustainability Science program, please submit your contact information below. Thanks for contacting us! Submit