Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Show/Hide SERVICES Customer Service FM Partnership Program Operations and Maintenance Heating and Cooling Sold Service Estimates Divisions Planning, Design & Construction Sustainability Event and Conference Real Estate Custodial and Moves More... MAPS Campus Map AED Locations Accessibility Map Space Reports Building List Building Space Download Maps PROJECTS Capital Projects Current Active Projects List Brook Street Residence Halls Churchill House Renovation and Addition Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project LGBTQ Identity Center Lincoln Field Building Renovation & Addition Lindemann Performing Arts Center Completed Marston Boathouse Renewal Phase 2 Wellness Center & Residence Hall Center for Lacrosse and Soccer GeoChem Infrastructure Renewal John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library School of Professional Studies Sharpe House Relocation Division of Applied Mathematics Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship 164 Angell Street Renovation Pizzitola Sports Center Friedman Hall Building Renovation John Hay Library 85 Waterman Street Stephen Robert '62 Hall Andrews Commons South Street Landing Barus & Holley, Prince Lab Engineering Research Center Keeney Quad Miller, Metcalf, & Andrews Halls 315 Thayer Jonathan M. Nelson Fitness & Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center Metcalf Research Building Warren Alpert Medical School Brown Stadium Turf Renovation Meehan Auditorium Team Experience Phase I Thermal Efficiency Project Perry & Marty Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Planning Resources Project Delivery Process Project Initiation Organization Delivery Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 Turnover Project Management Tools Project Information Management System Benchmarking Dashboard Reporting Decision Matrix Risk Register Schedule Analysis Design Standards Webcams SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT FM Leadership Mission & Values Organizational Chart News Newsletter Announcements Hours of Operation Directions FM PORTAL Planon FM Reportal Other Apps Meridian BEE FM Web Reports Floor Plans Dorm Floor Plans Planon FM IT FM Maps Admin Maps URL Builder Active Building List Internal Memos Suggestion Box COVID-19 COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Leadership Michael Guglielmo, Jr., Vice President for Facilities Management With more than 27 years of experience in strategic planning, building design, and construction management, Mike brings a wealth of knowledge to this position. Mike came to Brown as a project manager and was promoted on three separate occasions before assuming an interim leadership role in FM and now VP. Mike holds a Bachelors of Architecture degree from the Rhode Island School of Design. He also served the country for 20 years in the Rhode Island Air National Guard as a member of the 143rd Civil Engineering Squadron. During his Brown tenure, Mike has been an integral part of creating highly collaborative environments where Brown stakeholders work together with designers, engineers, and subcontractors to develop the best project solutions while implementing over a $1 billion capital plan. He has been instrumental in the development of numerous strategic projects including the Granoff Center for Creative Arts and the Engineering Research Center, completed in 2017, utilizing the highly collaborative Integrated Project Delivery (IPD) method. Mike also played a vital role in the development of South Street Landing and has been recognized as an industry leader in the development of the IPD approach at Brown. Paula Penelton, Assistant to the Vice President Paul Armas, Assistant Vice President, Facilities Operations Paul Armas has provided strategic leadership, coordination, and administration of the facilities management operations function at Brown University for the past decade. Under Paul's leadership, the operations arm of Brown University's facilities management department is responsible for leading 340 union, non-union, management and support staff in maintaining 235 campus buildings totaling approximately 7 million gross square feet and over 140 acres of turf, parking lots, greenery, and walkways in and around Providence's historic College Hill. During his tenure at Brown, Paul has transformed the department from a reactive maintenance mindset to one of planned and predictive maintenance. This has garnered Paul and the department accolades from several national and local news and trade publications as well as an award in Innovative and Effective Practices from the higher education facilities trade group APPA and is a regular presenter at regional and national conferences. Paul Dietel, Assistant Vice President, Planning, Design & Construction (PD&C) Craig Barton, University Architect Craig Barton is an architect, and educator. As the University Architect, he will work with senior leadership and members of the Corporation to provide strategic direction to the capital planning process, and project planning efforts, with a focus on the overall plan for the campus. He will also oversee the development of the university’s design guidelines, architect selection, and project design review. He is an emeritus member of the Corporation, where he served as chair of the Committee on Facilities and Campus Planning and will bring professional, academic, and civic experience to Brown’s planning and design processes. Mr. Barton has worked for a number of architectural firms prior to leading his own design practice, and has held faculty appointments and academic leadership roles at the University of Virginia and Arizona State University. Most recently, he served as the Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. In addition, he has served as chair of the Charlottesville (VA) City Planning Commission, and as a member of the Mayor’s Urban Design Task Force in Phoenix, AZ. He has served on the boards of a number of non-profit organizations focused on design and the built environment and currently serves as a trustee of the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts, and as a member of the board of the Design Museum of Chicago. He holds undergraduate degrees from Brown and the School of Visual Arts, and a Master of Architecture degree from Columbia University’s Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. He was a Loeb Fellow at the Graduate School of Design from 1994 to 1995. Jessica Berry, Director of Sustainability Jess Berry leads the Office of Sustainability and provides strategic leadership and management across the University to enhance sustainability at Brown. She works closely with the Assistant Provost of Sustainability, and key stakeholders, to identify opportunities for integrating sustainability principles into University operations, including the development of a long-term Strategic Sustainability Plan. Jess has worked in the environmental field for over 15 years and holds a B.S. and M.S. in Environmental Studies and Natural Resources. Colin Johnson, Associate Director of Systems & Services Colin Johnson has been at Brown University since 2014 and has served as the Associate Director of Systems & Services since 2021. As a Director, Colin is responsible for strategic oversight, selection, implementation, and ongoing support of information technology solutions. Colin works closely with the Office of Information Technology department to integrate FM systems with the University's central IT systems. Deborah Dunphy, Director of Facilities Services Deb Dunphy oversees the Service Response Center, our 24 hour 365 days a year call center and administers the FM Partnership Program. Cecilia Dursi, Director of Facilities Management Human Resources Cecilia Dursi supports all areas of the department by managing recruitment, selection and hiring, the labor relations and grievance processes, and employee relations issues. Dave Woodward, Director of Finance Dave Woodward has been with Brown since 1995, joining Facilities in 1998 to oversee the finance and business support. Among his responsibilities are budget management/accounting, payroll, customer billing, purchasing/accounts payable, materials management, and coordination with the university controller's and budget offices. Submit Service Request & Event Support Request Leadership Mission & Values Organizational Chart News Hours of Operation Directions Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Facilities Management Brown University Box 1941 295 Lloyd Ave. Providence, RI 02912 Directions Facility Emergency: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Service Request: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Main Office: Tel: (401) 863-7850 Fax: (401) 863-7885 FM Portal FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat