Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Research Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Research Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Health Research Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Health Research Tailor your undergraduate coursework to fit your specific interests and career goals with the Undergraduate Certificate in Health Research in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Offered through the Sociology Department, the Health Research Certificate is an 18-credit program that allows students to explore the ways in which healthcare impacts the development, structure and functioning of human society. Students may select courses that cover a range of health topics such as global health, medical sociology, population studies and the sociology of aging. In addition to building a foundational knowledge of health and its role in society, students in the Health Research Undergraduate Certificate program will hone their analytical research and critical thinking skills through advanced data analysis and methodology courses. This program is designed for undergraduate students in a Bachelor's program, but it is not open to Sociology majors or students pursuing the Health Track in Sociology. Classes & Curriculum This certificate program is designed for non-Sociology majors. Certificates are awarded only at the time of completion of the bachelor's degree and cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. The 18-credit undergraduate certificate requires five courses, including a health-related sequence and a research methodology course. The following courses are required. Health and Disease in American Society Statistical Methods in Sociology Research Design and Methods Students may then choose electives from the following course options. Environmental Sociology: The End of the World as We Know It? Global Health Health and Reproduction Population Studies Selected Topics in Medical Sociology Sex & Society Sexuality and Gender Sociology of Aging Sociology of the Body Sociology of the Self Urban Health Learn more about the course requirements for the Health Research Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Psychological Research MS Psychology PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Careers The specialized focus of the Health Research Certificate (Undergraduate) provides students with the foundation necessary to pursue careers in a range of health and social services professions. Students often pursue professional opportunities in the following areas. Health services management Medical transcription Occupational therapy Public health administration Sociology Social and human services Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Health Research Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the Center for Academic Advising. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-HLRE-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Research Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info