Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law St Andrews Baylor Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Career Development Leadership Development Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Public Service Legal Clinics Student Life Technology Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events News Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School The Academy of The Advocate At St Andrews Academy of the Advocate Resources Meet the Faculty Meet the accomplished Academy of the Advocate Faculty. Apply Now Submit your application for an unforgettable experience in St Andrews, Scotland. Courses Learn more about the School of the Appeal, the School of the Trial, and the Advanced School of the Trial. Contact us Have questions? Reach out. Daily Life in Scotland Check out our Facebook page to get a glimpse into the daily life of a student in the Academy of the Advocate. The Academy Of the Advocate The Experience Like No Other Apply Now Enrollment is Limited Contact Stephen Rispoli Associate Program Coordinator 254.710.1911 Stephen_Rispoli@baylor.edu Baylor Law Advocacy Program 254.710.1911 advocacyprogram@baylor.edu Connect Quick Search Cancel See All Search Topics Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Overview A Magical Place History Comes Alive Storytellers Welcome A Life Changing Experience 2022 Awaits Courses Faculty and Administration Apply Now Living Arrangements Tuition and Fees FAQ Contact Us Law School About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library