Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Staff Senate Staff Senate Inclusion Statement The Clemson University Staff Senate is committed to advocating for the welfare of all staff members regardless of race, culture, age, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, socioeconomic level, political perspective, abilities, opinions, values, and experiences. We are the voice for all classified and unclassified staff members. We promote an inclusive environment that values and respects others. We are committed to communicating ideas and concerns that affect all staff employees to University leadership. The tragic and senseless killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor, as well as past killings and violence, are clear evidence of the racial injustice experienced by countless Black people in this country. When we see the Black members of our Clemson community hurt and angered by violence and injustice, we want everyone to know we are also outraged and anguished by this senselessness. We join in solidarity with the University Leadership and our campus partners in condemning injustice, systemic racism, discrimination, violence, brutality, and hatred. We hear you, we see you, and we support you. We are dedicated to enhancing awareness about inclusion, equity, and diversity by committing to the following: Engage and encourage membership to participate in opportunities available for staff through the Office of Inclusion and Equity; Increase diversity within Staff Senate; Provide a supportive and safe environment. We stand together in calling for a Clemson community that is just and inclusive, where everyone is valued. Clemson University Staff Senate June 15, 2020 Home Bylaws Committees Minutes Newsletter Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship Employee Emergency Fund Thank You, Veterans Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram