Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Title IX and Gender Equity Office Title IX and Gender Equity OfficeOffice of the President Title IX and Gender Equity OfficeOffice of the President Menu Compliance Compliance CSU Policies Notice of Nondiscrimination Annual Reports Training Resources Resources Tips for Responding to a Disclosure Common Myths and Facts Guide for Responsible Employees Prohibited Conduct Definitions Prohibited Conduct Definitions Dating & Domestic Violence Sexual Harassment Sexual Misconduct Stalking Pregnancy and Parenting Support Reporting Incidents Reporting Incidents Employee Reporting Obligation How We Can Help Compliance CSU Policies Notice of Nondiscrimination Annual Reports Training Resources Tips for Responding to a Disclosure Common Myths and Facts Guide for Responsible Employees Prohibited Conduct Definitions Pregnancy and Parenting Support Reporting Incidents Employee Reporting Obligation How We Can Help A Safe Campus Starts With You Help keep SJSU free from sexual harassment, sex discrimination and gender inequity of all types. SJSU's Title IX and Gender Equity Office is committed to protecting all people regardless of their gender or gender identity from sex discrimination, which includes sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, dating/domestic violence, stalking, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions. Reporting a Title IX Incident If you or someone you know has experienced sex discrimination or sexual misconduct, we encourage you to file a report or contact the Title IX Office for resources and assistance. Report to the Title IX Office Resources For Students Campus Survivor Advocate Services are for victims of sex/gender harassment, sexual misconduct, sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking. To request an appointment with the Campus Survivor Advocate, please contact: Selena Gonzalez, M.A. Student Wellness Center, 300B Phone: 408-924-5021 Email: survivoradvocate@sjsu.edu SJSU’s Campus Survivor Advocate is a confidential resource - you can discuss what happened without notifying the Title IX Office or law enforcement. Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) CAPS provides short-term and crisis counseling services to students at SJSU. For more information regarding CAPS' services visit sjsu.edu/counseling. • To request an appointment, please call 408-924-5910 Student Health Center We encourage students who have experienced a sexual assault or dating/domestic violence to seek medical services. The Student Health Center can provide STI testing, pregnancy testing, and general health and wellness check-ups. • To schedule an appointment, visit their website at sjsu.edu/studenthealth or call 408-924-6122. Please note, SJSU Student Health Center does not provide forensic evidence collection, such as a sexual assault forensic exam (often called a "rape kit"). If you are in need of a forensic exam, please visit the Santa Clara County Valley Medical Center Emergency Department or call the SART Coordinator at 408-885-6466. Ben Falter, Respondent Consultant Email: ben.falter@sjsu.edu View Rights and Options for Victims of Sexual Misconduct [pdf] For Employees LifeMatters® by Empathia, San José State University’s confidential Employee Assistance Program (EAP), is dedicated to employee well-being. From emotional and family counseling to providing geriatric care management, LifeMatters® offers both online and in-person support. • Visit LifeMatters® online for more information. Password: SPARTANS • To speak to someone from LifeMatters® confidentially, call 800-367-7474. • Visit Counseling for Faculty and Staff for personal consultations. Sexual violence impacts all aspects of the SJSU community, and it is important as faculty that you are equipped with the knowledge and know-how to best support your students in times when they need it most. The following suggested syllabus language [pdf] serves as a resource from which you can pick and choose to best support student success and care. Ben Falter, Respondent Consultant Email: ben.falter@sjsu.edu View Rights and Options for Victims of Sexual Misconduct [pdf] Off Campus Concerns These off-campus resources provide confidential support services to survivors of sexual assault, dating & domestic violence, and stalking. They will not report to the SJSU Title IX Office without your consent. YWCA Golden Gate Silicon Valley 24-hour Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, and Human Trafficking Hotline: 800-572-2782 Website: yourywca.org Next Door Solutions to Domestic Violence 24/7 Crisis Hotline: 408-279-2962 Website: nextdoorsolutions.org Asian Women's Home Hotline: 408-975-2739 Website: dv.aaci.org Maitri (services for families and individuals from South Asia) Toll Free Helpline: 1-888-862-4874 Website: maitri.org How We Can Help Have a question about anything Title IX related? We know that these questions may be sensitive in nature, but please don't hesitate to reach out to our office with any questions, comments or concerns. Title IX Annual Reports Each year the SJSU Title IX Office compiles an annual report encompassing all reported incidents from the previous year. Additional Resources Unsure of what Title IX covers? The Title IX Office offers many resources that should help make things more clear. Title IX Notice of Nondiscrimination San José State University does not discriminate on the basis of sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, or sexual orientation in its education programs or activities. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and certain other federal and state laws, prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex in all education programs and activities operated by the university (both on and off campus) that receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX and Gender Equity Office Contact Us Skip Bishop Title IX and Gender Equity Officer Phone: 408-924-7290 (M-F, 8AM-5PM) 669-877-0620 (After Hours, Voice/Text) Email: titleix@sjsu.edu Visit Office Administration Building Room 112 One Washington Square San José, CA 95192-0126 Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated May 11, 2022