Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Parents Site Navigation Home Life on Campus A to Z Campus Safety Emergency Contacts Important Dates Academics Directory Information (and Suppression) Careers & Life After Brown Emergency Communication Commencement Finances Parent Communication Terms & Acronyms Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1000 Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Parents Financial Offices Financial Offices Bursar's Office The Bursar's Office handles billing and collection for all student accounts. Student accounts include tuition as well as other charges and credits for which students are responsible. Tuition payment policies and billing schedules are published on this website, along with answers to frequently asked questions. Cashier's Office The Cashier's Office records payments made to student accounts, including loan payments and Bear Bucks deposits. Go to this site for Brown's payment address and instructions for wiring funds to Brown. Financial Aid Office The Financial Aid Office manages financial aid applications for undergraduate and graduate students. Students who wish to receive financial aid must submit financial aid applications every year. Financial aid for the medical school is managed through the Alpert Medical School (AMS) Office of Financial Aid. Brown's Office of Financial Aid offers additional information for undergraduates and their families about understanding the expected student contribution; buying books; financing travel to and from Brown, and purchasing a computer. Financial Aid Counselors are available Monday through Friday to answer questions; check for hours and the Counselor Calendar. Start with the staff in the Financial Aid Office if you have questions about loans, scholarship, awards, expected student earnings, etc. The partner office of Student Employment provides information about student earnings, campus jobs, required forms, etc.; employment is open to all enrolled students, not just those with a financial aid award. Loan Office The Loan Office assists students in meeting the cost of education and managing the repayment of educational loans. The office manages all federal and institutional loan programs, including Federal Perkins, Health Profession, and University funds; and provides required Exit Counseling and loan repayment information for students. Call, email or visit with questions! Living @ Brown: Financial Considerations Bear Bucks Proof of Enrollment Student Employment Tuition & Fees Also in Parents Site Navigation Home Life on Campus A to Z Campus Safety Emergency Contacts Important Dates Academics Directory Information (and Suppression) Careers & Life After Brown Emergency Communication Commencement Finances Parent Communication Terms & Acronyms Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1000 Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory CALENDARS Academic Calendar Athletics Calendar University Events Year-at-a-Glance SUBSCRIBE Weekly News from Brown Featured Events Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity