Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Advanced Education General Dentistry Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Advanced Education General Dentistry Certificate (Graduate) Apply Advanced Education General Dentistry Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Advanced Education General Dentistry Certificate (Graduate) Expand your knowledge and refine your clinical competency and judgment with a 12-month graduate certificate program in Advanced Education in General Dentistry (AEGD) from Temple University’s Kornberg School of Dentistry. The program is designed to accommodate six recent dental school graduates who function in the program as residents as well as applicants who hold a DMD or DDS degree from a Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) accredited dental school. Dentists who hold a BDS, DMD or DDS from an international dental school not accredited by CODA may apply to the AEGD program for international dentists. The field of dentistry is rapidly evolving, with new restorative technologies being pioneered and patients who live longer and have more complex medication and healthcare needs. The program takes you beyond the four-year DMD curriculum and strengthens your knowledge base and clinical judgment, helping you keep pace with advances in the field. While primary patient care provides the majority of residents’ learning experience, you’ll also further enhance your diagnostic skills and ability to develop patient-appropriate treatment plans through the didactic curriculum and weekly seminars covering treatment planning, literature reviews and topics in general dentistry. Residents train to operate effectively and collaborate efficiently within cross-functional healthcare teams while honing their ability to provide emergency, multidisciplinary and patient-centered oral healthcare to a diverse community of patients with a broad spectrum of conditions and needs. Certificate students acquire robust clinical experience by working in the AEGD Clinic, which operates as a stand-alone clinic with a staff of dental assistants and hygienists. Rotations in postgraduate endodontology and periodontology and implantology supplement the comprehensive patient care assignment in the AEGD clinical facility. Dedicated faculty, who are experts in their fields and who are full-time, tenured members of the Department of Restorative Dentistry, instruct and support residents throughout their clinical development and treatment of complex cases. AEGD Program for International Dentists The Kornberg School of Dentistry offers a postgraduate opportunity for dentists who hold a BDS, DMD or DDS degree from an international dental school not accredited by CODA. This comprehensive program includes both clinical and didactic training, and the flexibility to attain an optional Oral Health Sciences MS. Residents in this one-year program also have the flexibility to pursue an optional second year of AEGD training and/or to earn an optional Master’s of Science degree in Oral Health Sciences. Those interested in the optional MS degree must apply to both the first-year AEGD and MS programs concurrently. If accepted to both programs, the tuition for the MS degree program will be included in the AEGD tuition. Learn more about how to apply to the AEGD program for international applicants. This AEGD program begins in July and runs through the following June. The tuition cost for this program is a flat fee of $69,398 plus a $4,500 instrument fee. These prices are subject to change for upcoming academic years in accordance with the University’s changes in tuition. International dentists who have not already completed a DMD or DDS degree from a CODA-accredited institution are not able to be considered for the stipend-based AEGD program. Facilities The AEGD program has a 15-chair clinical facility that includes a fully equipped dental laboratory, expanded dental operatories, instrument and materials storage, radiology capability, resident office space, sterilization area, and waiting room and front desk space. Learn more about facilities in the School of Dentistry. Classes & Curriculum While most of the courses residents complete focus on primary patient care, the weekly didactic curriculum includes literature review, treatment planning, general dentistry and prosthodontics seminars. The Advanced Education in General Dentistry program includes didactic instruction over a 12-month period. Core courses include Advanced Oral Pathology, Advanced Dental Pharmacology, Advanced Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, and Oral Microbiology and Immunology. Learn more about coursework for the Advanced Education in General Dentistry certificate program. Related Professional Degrees Dentistry DMD International Dentists DMD Related Graduate Certificates Endodontics Dental Public Health Orthodontics Periodontics Careers Recipients of the Advanced Education in General Dentistry Certificate are prepared to become comprehensive general dentists, educators and researchers. Career Development Through the Office of Student Affairs, students pursuing careers in dentistry can get counseling and support during their tenure at Kornberg and after they graduate. The office regularly hosts career events and guest speakers covering a wide range of topics including corporate and private practice careers, debt management, general practice residencies, military service, and specialty education. Once enrolled in the program, you will receive regular notifications about career opportunities. Additionally, the school provides an updated list of job opportunities for dental professionals across the U.S. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Certificate in Dentistry offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about the tuition rates for the 2021–2022 academic year. Program Contact Marc Herman is the director of the AEGD Program. Email: marc.herman@temple.edu Accreditation The program in advanced education in general dentistry (12 months/optional second year) is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at 312-440- 4653 or at 211 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL, 60611. The commission’s web address is ada.org/en/coda. The Commission on Dental Accreditation has accredited the program in advanced education in general dentistry (12 months/optional second year). However, accreditation of the program does not in itself constitute recognition of any dental specialty status. DN-AEGD-DENT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Advanced Education General Dentistry Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply