Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs MVP Scholarships Texas Tech University awards scholarships to veterans and dependents each year based upon available funding. Support MVP Scholarships through participation in our annual Tournament for Heroes. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are as follows: Incoming First Year Students: February 1 Current TTU Students: February 1 Transfer Students: March 1 Eligibility requirements are listed below each scholarship. Awarded students will be notified by September 1 (Due to COVID delays in 2020, MVP Scholarships will be awarded between Oct 1-Nov 1, 2020) and will be invited to be recognized on stage at the MVP Welcome Event in the Fall. The recipient will be required to write a thank you letter for the scholarship. Selection A scholarship committee consisting of members of the Faculty and Staff will screen applicants and select the recipients. Scholarships will be granted based upon the information supplied on the application as well as the additional materials requested. Application Procedures Apply Now at the TTU Scholarship page: Link You are also required to: Submit copies of transcripts from all colleges attended, military transcripts, and if a Veteran,your DD214 Member 4 to the Office of the Registrar's Transfer Evaluation Office if you didn't submit those items upon admission to TTU. Note: For the Pat Gilliam Scholarship, dependents should also submit documentation certifying the student is a dependent (child or spouse) of the veteran or servicemember (Dependent DOD Identification, Marriage Certificate, Birth Certificate, or Tax Return) to MVP if you didn't submit those upon admission to TTU. Arthur J. Achenbach Memorial Scholarship for Veterans Arthur (Art) Achenbach was born in Jamaica, NY on September 1, 1926. He joined the USMC at the age of 17 and served in the Pacific Theater in World War II. He was one of three survivors of his original company. In 1951, he was trained to become one of J. Edgar Hoover's Special Agents of the FBI. He served as a Special Agent for 20 years. Art Achenbach served his nation and family with pride and humility. His family has established this scholarship to assist others who have so bravely served their nation. Through a generous donation from Arthur's son, Jerry Achenbach, a TTU Alum, Texas Tech University awards the Arthur J. Achenbach Memorial Scholarship annually based on available funding. The nonrenewable scholarship is for $1,000 awarded in the fall semester for incoming student veterans who are entering Texas Tech University as a first year or transfer student. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of this page. The awarded student is notified in September. The applicant must meet the following requirements: Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces; Honorably Discharged or currently serving in the US Military (Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard); Preference given to combat veterans (Combat is defined as meeting eligibility requirements of the Veterans of Foreign Wars); Full-time Student Entering Texas Tech University as a new or transfer student for the current Fall semester MVP Veteran Scholarship Texas Tech University awards the MVP Veteran Scholarship annually based upon available funding. The nonrenewable scholarship is for $1,000 awarded for the academic year. Student veterans who are enrolled as full-time undergraduate students are eligible. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of this page. Recipients will be named and contacted in September. The applicant must meet the following requirements: Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces; Honorably Discharged or currently serving in the US Military (Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard); 3.0 Overall GPA Full-time TTU Student Pat Gilliam Dependent Scholarship This scholarship was named to honor the memory of former Military & Veterans Programs Unit Coordinator, Patricia "Pat" Gilliam, who passed away in January, 2015. She was a dedicated military spouse whose passion was to help veterans and their family members to achieve their educational goals. Texas Tech University awards the Patricia "Pat" Gilliam Family Member Scholarship annually based upon available funding. The $1,000 nonrenewable scholarship is awarded for the academic year. Children and Spouses of veterans who are enrolled as fulltime undergraduate students are eligible. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of this page. Recipients will be named and contacted in September. The applicant must meet the following requirements: Dependents of Veterans who have been Honorably Discharged or currently serving in the US Military (Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard); 3.0 Overall GPA Full-time TTU Student Steve Morin Jr. Memorial Scholarship This scholarship honors the memory of Steve Morin Jr. who was a first-generation, Hispanic, Texas Tech University graduate, a father, son, husband, U.S. Navy veteran, U.S. Army National Guard sergeant, and hero. He was only 34 years old when he was killed by an IED on September 28, 2005, west of Umm, Qasr, Iraq. Sgt. Morin was a true Texas Tech fan and represented Texas Tech proudly even while deployed. Through funding provided by the Military Order of the Purple Heart Chapter 0900 or Military & Veterans Programs, Texas Tech University awards the Steve Morin Jr. Memorial Scholarship annually based on available funding. The nonrenewable scholarship is for $1,000 awarded for the academic year. Student veterans who are enrolled as full-time students are eligible. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of this page. Recipients will be named and contacted in September. The applicant must meet the following requirements: Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces; Honorably Discharged or currently serving in the US Military (Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard); 3.0 Overall GPA Full-time TTU Student Phillips 66 Military & Veteran Scholarship Through a generous donation from Phillips 66, Texas Tech University awards the Phillips 66 Military & Veteran Scholarship annually based upon available funding. The nonrenewable scholarship is awarded for the academic year. Student service members or veterans who are enrolled as full-time students majoring in Mechanical, Chemical, Electrical or Civil Engineering are eligible to apply. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of this page. Recipients will be named and contacted in September. The applicant must meet the following requirements: Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces; Honorably Discharged or currently serving in the US Military (Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard); 3.25 Overall GPA or higher Full-time TTU Student at TTU majoring in Mechanical, Chemical, Electrical or Civil Engineering Major Troy Gilbert Memorial Scholarship This scholarship was named in honor of Major Troy Gilbert. Major Gilbert's life epitomized the core value of Service before Self. Whether flying the F-16, spending time with his family, or helping with a church function, he gave unselfishly of himself to serve and protect others. Such was the case on Nov. 27, 2006, the day Major Gilbert was killed in action protecting others. The 12-year Air Force veteran was assigned to the 332nd Air Expeditionary Wing at Salad Air Base, Iraq. On the day he died, Major Gilbert heroically led a flight of two F-16s in an aerial combat mission near Taji, Iraq. After a 10 year search, Major Gilbert was repatriated to the United States in 2016. Major Gilbert was a first generation college student in his family and graduated with his BS in International Economics in May 1993. Through a generous donation from the Texas Tech Military & Veterans National Alumni Network, Texas Tech University awards the Major Troy Gilbert Scholarship annually based upon available funding. The nonrenewable scholarship is for $1,000 awarded for the academic year. Student veterans who are enrolled as full-time undergraduate students are eligible. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of the MVP Scholarship website page. The awarded student is notified in September. The applicant must meet the following requirements: Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces; Honorably Discharged or currently serving in the US Military (Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard); 3.0 Overall GPA Full-time TTU Student Captain Joseph Alan Pryor Endowed Scholarship This scholarship has been established to honor the memory of Captain Alan Joseph Pryor, who joined the US Air Force in 1975 until he passed in the line of duty in 1984. Captain Pryor was from Midland. He served as a 1111D-Pilot with the 27th Tactical Fighter Wing out of Cannon AFB. Texas Tech University awards the Captain Alan Joseph Pryor Endowed Scholarship annually based upon available funding. The nonrenewable scholarship is awarded for the academic year in the amount of $1000.00. Currently enrolled Undergraduate TTU students who are veterans or current Service Members attending Texas Tech University are eligible to apply. The application period opens when the TTU Scholarship Application period opens each year. Deadlines are listed at the top of the MVP Scholarship website page. One or Two Recipients will be named and contacted in September. The applicant must meet the following minimum eligibility requirements: Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces; Honorably Discharged or Currently Serving in the Military (Active Duty or Reserves); 3.0 Overall GPA; Full-time enrolled student at Texas Tech University for the following academic year. Other Scholarships The following scholarships are awarded through the TTU Scholarship Office in Financial Aid.. Laverne Noyes Scholarship The Laverne Noyes Scholarship is available to blood descendants f a veteran of World War I. For more information and to apply, go to: https://www.depts.ttu.edu/scholarships/SpecialPrograms/LaverneNoyes.php Vietnam Veterans Memorial Scholarship The Vietnam Veterans Memorial Scholarship is open to children of Vietnam Era veterans or in the event that none can be found, children of any veteran may receive the scholarship. For more information and to apply, go to: https://www.depts.ttu.edu/scholarships/SpecialPrograms/VietnamVeteransMemorialScholarship.php Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:14 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index