Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Local 12 News: Developing an app could help transgender people... May 24, 2022 Vesna Dominika Novak, PhD, associate professor in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, spoke with Local 12 News about her research now available in the Journal of Voice. It shows the results of a 57-question survey of 21 transgender and gender diverse individuals focusing on voice, technology app usage, surgery, training and gender expression and identity. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Local 12 News: Developing an app could help transgender people... May 24, 2022 Vesna Dominika Novak, PhD, associate professor in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, spoke with Local 12 News about her research now available in the Journal of Voice. It shows the results of a 57-question survey of 21 transgender and gender diverse individuals focusing on voice, technology app usage, surgery, training and gender expression and identity. UC alumna creates scholarship benefiting women in engineering... May 23, 2022 Only 15% of U.S. engineers are women, according to the latest data from the United States Census Bureau. It’s a gap the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Applied Science hopes to help close, and a UC alumna has established a scholarship that will aid efforts. WVXU: Scientists track next virus down to ZIP code May 23, 2022 UC College of Engineering and Applied Science professor Manish Kumar is working with Cincinnati Children's Hospital and the University of Dayton on new predictive models for tracking the spread of infectious diseases like COVID-19. UC offers summer course on animal-inspired robotics May 23, 2022 The UC creators of Biology Meets Engineering are wrapping up a three-year National Science Foundation grant to develop and demonstrate a new curriculum drawing from both fields in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences and its College of Engineering and Applied Science. UC students take the class for course credit while faculty will offer a three-week course in June to introduce the concept to high school students. Environmental engineer named Distinguished Research Professor May 19, 2022 Dion Dionysiou is a University of Cincinnati professor of environmental engineering. He received a University Faculty Award for Distinguished Research for his work addressing water pollution, conservation and treatment. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC research institute hosts first annual festival of sensing May 13, 2022 UC’s Institute for Research in Sensing (IRiS) hosts its first annual Expo & Festival of Sensing next month to convene an interdisciplinary conference exploring the topic of sensing in all its forms, from the sciences to the humanities. The event will be held on May 25 and 26 in Tangeman University Center, 2600 Clifton Ave., and is open to faculty, staff, students and the public. The conference brings together representatives from across disciplines—from engineering, biology, ethics, the humanities, performing arts and more—to explore sensing through a variety of lenses, says IRiS director and associate professor of biology Nathan Morehouse. “We hope the IRiS event raises awareness of the amazing breadth of work happing on sensing at UC, while at the same time stimulating new conversations between the sciences, engineering, the arts and humanities,” he said. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School UC co-op medalist thrives in NASA internships May 10, 2022 University of Cincinnati student Anna Lanzillotta dreamed of working as an engineer in the aerospace and aviation industry. Now, Lanzillotta is graduating with an electrical engineering degree, experience working at NASA for four cooperative education jobs, and a full-time job in the aerospace industry. Lanzillotta was selected for the 2022 Herman Schneider Medal, which is awarded annually to a graduating senior in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science for distinction as an exemplary co-op student who has taken full advantage of the unique opportunities of cooperative education. Engineering students showcase capstone projects at CEAS Expo May 6, 2022 Graduating engineering undergraduates from the University of Cincinnati’s College of Engineering and Applied Science gathered for the inaugural CEAS Expo in April to showcase their senior capstone projects to more than 500 attendees, including faculty, staff, alumni and industry representatives. The event, organized by the college and CEAS Tribunal student government, was held in downtown Cincinnati at the Duke Energy Convention Center. Aerospace engineering professor honored with Provost Faculty... May 4, 2022 University of Cincinnati aerospace engineering professor Kelly Cohen, Ph.D., exemplifies excellence in teaching, research and service — the tenets of the Faculty Career Award for which he is being honored. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top