Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About About Introduction to Penn Penn has a proud tradition of translating knowledge into social-minded action that dates back to our founder Benjamin Franklin. Trustees & Administration Learn about the people who look after the University’s well-being and oversee its academic and business operations. The President's Website Explore Interim President Wendell Pritchett’s involvement in selected campus and world events, and read about his background, and the functions of his office. Penn’s academics are boosted by its inherent culture and ecosystem of innovation. You name it, if it’s cutting-edge, the University’s faculty—and students—have their hands in it. Grounded in the liberal arts and sciences and enriched by the integrated resources of four undergraduate and 12 graduate schools, Penn offers students an unparalleled education informed by inclusivity, intellectual rigor, research, and the impetus to create new knowledge to the benefit of individuals and communities around the world. Penn Facts 1740 Year Founded 5,093 Total Faculty Members 6:1 Student-Faculty Ratio All Penn Facts Sustainability Penn is dedicated to promoting a sustainable culture and implementing environmentally conscious policies. A Rich History As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of the nation. Visit Penn We invite you to spend time on campus and see the many ways our diverse community brings excitement and discovery to Penn’s grand buildings and state-of-the-art facilities. Members of the junior class celebrating Hey Day, the day they become seniors, on College Green. More About Penn Explore Facts Policies News, Media, & Communications Services Penn Global Other Strategic Initiatives Penn Global Penn faculty and students share a passion for engaging with communities around the world, and Penn Global provides innumerable opportunities for them to pair passion and knowledge in ways that both enrich their academic careers and positively impact diverse people and populations all over the globe. Global Campus Penn is a leading institution for the range of countries represented, and cultures supported, on campus. Global Opportunities Whether through study abroad, service learning, or innovative travel initiatives, international experience is an indispensable part of Penn. Global Impact Penn’s faculty, students, and alumni use their cutting-edge research, broad expertise, and University resources to effect positive change in peoples’ lives around the world. Other Strategic Initiatives Penn has established a number of key initiatives in robust support of student and faculty work that advances the mission of the University: work that bridges the divide between knowledge and action, dismantles academic silos that impede innovation, or breaks down the economic barriers that obstruct educational equality and excellence. Penn Integrates Knowledge Professorships The Penn Integrates Knowledge program attracts leading professors whose discipline-crossing work creates natural bridges among the University’s 12 schools, enriching student experiences and furthering Penn’s mission to integrate knowledge in service to society. All-grant Financial Aid Penn’s all-grant financial aid policy significantly reduces the burden of debt and, together with its need-blind admissions policy, ensures that a Penn education is accessible to outstanding students from all backgrounds. President's Engagement Prizes Penn seniors compete annually for prizes that fully fund local, national, and global engagement projects during the recipient’s first post-graduation year. This robust funding enables Penn’s youngest alumni to use their knowledge to serve others in profound and impactful ways. President's Innovation Prizes Awarded annually to a graduating Penn senior or team of seniors, the President’s Innovation Prize provides our students a unique path to be inventive and to think broadly about cutting-edge commercial projects that also have social impact. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top