By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Undergraduate In this Section Net Price Calculator Bill vs. COA Cost of Attendance for Undergraduates Research shows that having a college degree significantly boosts your income throughout your life, so your degree is an excellent investment. It’s good practice to know how much financial aid you’re eligible for and how much of it will be in the form of scholarships and grants. If you decide to borrow funds for your education, you’ll want to make sure that the future payments will be a reasonable percentage of what you can expect to earn. Cost of attendance may vary based on your program of study and special fees for that program. Annual increases are often necessary to provide the highest quality instruction, facilities, programs and services, and the University strives to keep those increases reasonable. The total of your student financial assistance cannot exceed the cost of attendance. Apply for financial aid There are two types of expenses that make up the cost of attendance for undergraduates: Direct Expenses These are costs that you pay directly to Syracuse University through the Bursar’s Office: tuition, fees, housing, meal plan. Costs vary for room and meal plan, so the cost of attendance uses a blended rate. Your actual charges may vary depending on the living arrangement or meal plan you select. Indirect Expenses These are expenses that are not billed by Syracuse University but are included in the Cost of Attendance to help you plan your budget. Books, supplies, transportation and personal expenses are in this category. 2022-23 Cost of Attendance Costs for an upcoming school year are determined and approved by our Board of Trustees in March, prior to the start of the school year. All costs for an upcoming school year are estimates and subject to change prior to this approval. 2022-2023 Cost of Attendance of Students Enrolled after Fall 2018 Direct (billable) costs Tuition $58,440 Housing & meals (average) $17,170 Miscellaneous fees $1,995 Total direct cost $77,305* Non-billable costs (average) Books & supplies $1,690 Transportation $768 Personal expenses $1,184 Loan fees (if student loan borrowed) $67 Total non-billable costs $3,709 Subtotal (without health insurance) $81,014 Health insurance $2,251 ** Total cost of attendance $83,265 *This mandatory fee may be waived if student has adequate private health insurance. 2022-2023 Cost of Attendance of Students Enrolled before Fall 2018 Direct (billable) costs Tuition $54,600 Housing & meals (average) $17,270 Miscellaneous fees $1,695 Total direct cost $73,845* Non-billable costs (average) Books & supplies $1,690 Transportation $768 Personal expenses $1,184 Loan fees (if student loan borrowed) $67 Total non-billable costs $3,709 Subtotal (without health insurance) $77,554 Health insurance $2,251** Total cost of attendance $79,805 **This mandatory fee may be waived if student has adequate private health insurance. College of Professional Studies—Cost of Part-time Study The College of Professional Studies is the home of part-time students who want to pursue a degree or earn a certificate or credential from any of the schools and colleges at Syracuse University. It also serves as the gateway to Syracuse University for students who pursue continuing education for professional development or personal fulfillment. View information on cost of attendance for part-time students . Featured Stories Avery Callahan ’19, recipient of a four-year, merit-based Donofrio Scholarship “It meant a lot to be recognized as someone deserving of this award, but the best part of it was that recipients get to do an internship the summer after freshman year.” Related Pages Your Bill vs. Cost of Attendance When determining how much financial assistance you might need, the Financial Aid Office looks at a bigger picture. Types of Financial Aid There are a variety of loans, grants, scholarships, and programs to assist in paying for your education at Syracuse University. Net Price Calculator This tool will help you estimate your eligibility for financial aid and your out-of-pocket expenses. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy