Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ANESTHESIOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ANEST 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*) Sivarajan By special arrangement. Time and credit to be arranged. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 498 ANEST 499 Undergraduate Research (*) Specific research problems relating to pulmonary, cardiovascular, renal, obstetric, and central nervous system functions, and their alteration by anesthetic techniques and agents. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 499 ANEST 501 P-Preceptorship in Anesthesiology (1, max. 12) An opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to gain experience with medical practice situations by observing clinical faculty members in the operating room. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 501 ANEST 650 P-Pain Medicine Clerkship (8) Participation as part of a Pain Medicine team in evaluation and management of patients experiencing short term post injury (surgery, trauma) pain and/or long- term pain. (Four weeks, full time). Prerequisite: Third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 650 ANEST 654 P-Chronic Care/Pain Management - Alaska - NAPM (8) Exposures to pain management. Students are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical activities. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 654 ANEST 657 P-Chronic Care/Pain - VAPSHCS - Seattle, WA (8) Exposure to pain management. Students are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical activities. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 657 ANEST 662 P-Chronic Care/Alaska - Fairbanks APCA (8) Exposure to rehabilitation, geriatrics, palliative care, and pain management through the Chronic Care website and didactics. Students focus their clinical activities on chronic pain management. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 662 ANEST 663 Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Cheyenne, WY (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilator support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 663 ANEST 665 P-Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Anchorage (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 665 ANEST 667 P-Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Billings (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 667 ANEST 668 P-Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Missoula (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 668 ANEST 669 P-Basic Clerkship in Anesthesiology Bozeman Health - Gallitan Valley, MT (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 669 ANEST 670 P Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesiology Bozeman Health - Gallitan Valley, MT (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs can be arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: Third- or fourth-year student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 670 ANEST 671 P-Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Boise (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 671 ANEST 672 Basic Anesthesiology - Boise, ID VA (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilator support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth- year Medicine student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 672 ANEST 673 Outpatient Strategies for Pain Rehabilitation -- Missoula, MT (8) Emphasis on outpatient strategies for pain rehabilitation, including interventional modalities, with pain education as a foundation. (Four weeks.) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 673 ANEST 674 P-Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Spokane (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 674 ANEST 675 P-Basic Clerkship - Deaconess - Spokane, WA (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 675 ANEST 677 P-Basic Anesthesia Clerkship - Swedish (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 677 ANEST 681 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesiology - UWMC (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs can be arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: Third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 681 ANEST 682 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesia - HMC (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs can be arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. Prerequisite: Third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 682 ANEST 683 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesiology - VAMC (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs can be arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: Third- or fourth-year student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 683 ANEST 684 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesiology - Spokane (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical students. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 684 ANEST 685 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesiology - Deaconess - Spokane, WA (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs can be arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 685 ANEST 686 P-Basic Clerkship in Anesthesia - Kalispell (4) Exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Two weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 686 ANEST 687 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesia - Kalispell (8) Continued exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 687 ANEST 688 Advanced Anesthesia - Cheyenne, WY (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs can be arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 688 ANEST 690 P-Basic Clerkship in Anesthesia - Wenatchee (Confluence) (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: Third- or fourth-year medical student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 690 ANEST 691 P-Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesia - Wenatchee (Confluence) (8) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Four weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 691 ANEST 692 P - Basic Anesthesiology - Lander, WY (4) Introduction to the principles of airway management, ventilatory support, use of local anesthetics, techniques of patient monitoring, and fluid therapy. Skills taught include airway management, venipuncture, lumbar puncture, and endotracheal intubation. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 692 ANEST 693 P - Advanced Anesthesiology - Lander, WY (8) Clerkship for students desiring greater exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs arranged in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 693 ANEST 694 P - Basic Clerkship in Anesthesia - Billings (4) Exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Two weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 694 ANEST 695 P-Chronic Care/Pain Management - Roosevelt (8) Exposure to pain management. Students focus on one area and are assigned to a preceptor and clinical site to concentrate their clinical activities in that content area. Includes didactic orientation on the first day and patient case presentations during didactic on the last day. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 695 ANEST 696 P - Advanced Clerkship in Anesthesia - Billings (8) Continued exposure to anesthesiology as a specialty. Individual programs in the following areas: surgical anesthesia, obstetrical anesthesia, and pain clinic. (Four weeks, full-time.) Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 696 ANEST 697 P-Anesthesiology Special Electives (*, max. 24) Special clerkships, externships, or research opportunities can at times be made available at institutions other than the University of Washington. Students wishing to elect this course should obtain a special assignment form from the dean's office at least one month before advance registration. (Four to twelve weeks, full-time.). Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 697 ANEST 699 P-WWAMI Anesthesiology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: ANEST 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022