Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index College of Education Menu Search TTU College of Education Graduate Program Educational Psychology, Leadership, & Counseling About The Department Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Certificates Faculty Departmental Highlights About the Department As our largest graduate department, both in terms of programs offered and students served, the Educational Psychology, Leadership, & Counseling (EPLC) Department trains scholars and practitioners that have a direct impact on the communities they serve, whether by increasing the number of mental health professionals, providing skilled school psychologists, preparing servant leaders for upper administration roles in K-12 and higher education, or by exploring the very nature of how people learn. Led by Department Chair Dr. Kamau Siwatu, Professor of Educational Psychology, EPLC is committed to continual and sustainable innovative instructional practices and engaging in mutually beneficial scholarship that is informed by and supports culturally diverse communities of learners, teachers, leaders, and education partners. Learn more about the department in its Strategic Plan Dr. Kamau Siwatu, Professor of Educational Psychology, serves as the Chair of the Department of Educational Psychology, Leadership, & Counseling. Contact Us Beth WatsonAcademic AdvisorOffice of Graduate Admissions & Enrollmentbeth.watson@ttu.edu806-834-0429 Siwatu, Kamau Oginga, Ph.D.Professor, Department ChairEducational Psychology, Leadership, & CounselingKamau.siwatu@ttu.edu 806-834-5850 Master's Degrees M.Ed. in Counselor Education M.Ed. in Counselor Education with a Concentration in Clinical Mental Health M.Ed. in Counselor Education with a Concentration in School Counseling M.Ed. in Educational Leadership M.Ed. in Educational Psychology M.Ed. in Educational Psychology with a Concentration in School Psychology M.Ed. in Higher Education Administration (on-campus) M.Ed. in Higher Education Administration (online) M.Ed. in Educational Leadership with an emphasis in Educational Policy Doctoral Degrees Ph.D. in Educational Leadership Policy Ed.D. in Educational Leadership Ph.D. and Ed.D. in Higher Education Ph.D. in Counselor Education Ph.D. in Educational Psychology Ph.D. in Educational Psychology With a Track in School Psychology Certificates & Certifications The College of Education offers two types of non-degree programs: professional certification, necessary to be licensed and/or practice at an advanced level in your chosen career and Graduate Certificates, which provide an additional credential in your field of study but do not necessarily lead to licensure. Graduate Certificates can also be used as an introduction into your chosen master's degree program. Certification options in the Department of Educational Psychology, Leadership, and Counseling include: Mental Health Counseling Higher Education Administration School Psychology Fundamentals of Teaching and Learning Foundations of Mixed Methods Research Learn more and view the complete list of Graduate Certificates available through the College of Education. Faculty Departmental Highlights Research Dr. aretha marbley, Professor of Counselor Education, is conducting several research studies that examine the perceptions of international and female students during the COVID-19 pandemic. She is also co-editing a special edition for an international publication titled “Women Leaders in the Academy and the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Vision for Future Generations of Women.” Drs. Almager, deLeon, Palmer, Cumby, and Valle, Educational Leadership faculty members, are bringing $1.4 million in TEA Cycle 4 Principal Residency Grant dollars to the College of Education again this year. Dr. Alex Wiseman, Professor of Educational Leadership, is conducting research that explores teacher perspectives on refugee and immigrant education and the diminished ability to teach and learn among this specific population. Drs. McNaughtan and Garcia, faculty members in the Higher Education program, along with a group of their students, are interviewing university presidents around the world to better understand leading during a crisis. Initial findings were published in Times Higher Education. News Education Policy Fellowship Program welcomes 2021-22 cohort September 07, 2021 The 23-member group includes emerging education leaders from across the state. Read the full story $1.4 Million TEA grant continues tuition-free principal residency program April 19, 2021 Texas Education Agency awarded the funds to a group of school districts to partner with Texas Tech’s College of Education on a tuition-free principal residency program. Read the full story TX-EPFP Fellow selected for global education policy fellowship February 01, 2021 Edward Franklin will study education policy in Argentina after being selected for a competitive global fellowship. Read the full story See all College of Education News Contact CONTACTContact CONTACT CONTACT News for NEWSNews for NEWS NEWS HeartHeart GIVE Guns Up!Guns Up! APPLY NOW College of Education Like College of Education on FacebookLike College of Education on Facebook Follow College of Education on twitterFollow College of Education on twitter Subscribe to College of Education on YouTubeSubscribe to College of Education on YouTube Follow College of Education on InstagramFollow College of Education on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, College of Education, 3002 18th Street Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2377 Email educ.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 6, 2022 11:08 AM College of Education Apply Now About College of Education About Back About the College College of Education About About the College Back About Us News & Events Contact Us CACREP Survey Information (Counselor Education) Self-Assessment, Accreditation, and Strategic Plans Our People College of Education About Our People Back Faculty Profiles Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Prospective Faculty & Staff Alumni, Donors, & Friends College of Education About Alumni, Donors, & Friends Back Donate to the College Alumni in the News Teachers of the Year Undergraduate College of Education Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Students College of Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Students Back Current Students Future Students Strong Teachers Day One TechTeach Across Texas TechTeach Across Rural Texas Undergraduate Application Process Study Abroad City Year Boston Undergraduate Student Resources College of Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Student Resources Back Undergraduate Student Resources Who to Contact Learning Resource Center Student Life Required Courses Test Preparation Materials Undergraduate Scholarships TK20 Login Undergraduate Advising College of Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising Back Advising Home Make an Appointment Degree Requirements Registration Admission to TechTeach (Educator Preparation Program) Pre-Admission Exam FAQ Graduation Teacher Certification Exam Information Graduate College of Education Graduate Back Graduate Departments College of Education Graduate Graduate Departments Back Curriculum & Instruction Educational Psychology, Leadership, & Counseling Special Education For Graduate Students College of Education Graduate For Graduate Students Back Graduate Application Process Graduate Student Resources Graduate Dissertation Announcements Graduate Certificates College of Education Graduate Graduate Certificates Back Graduate Certificates Graduate Advising College of Education Graduate Graduate Advising Back Graduate Scholarships/Funding Admission to Educator Preparation Program Research Centers College of Education Research Centers Back Centers and Institutes College of Education Research Centers Centers and Institutes Back The Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research The Center for Integration of STEM Education and Research (CISER) The Virginia Murray Sowell Center for Research and Education in Sensory Disabilities Center for Research in Leadership and Education (CRLE) Center for Innovation in E-Learning (CIEL) US PREP National Center Texas Education Policy Fellowship Program (EPFP) Principal Fellows Partnership Program Community Outreach College of Education Research Centers Back Community Engagement East Lubbock Promise Neighborhood (ELPN) Service Learning City Year Boston West Texas Rural Education Partnership (WTREP) Teacher Incentive Allotment (TIA) Resources College of Education Resources Back Scholarships and Financial Aid College of Education Resources Scholarships and Financial Aid Back Undergraduate Graduate University Resources Student Resources College of Education Resources Student Resources Back Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Who to Contact Undergraduate Required Courses Undergraduate Test Preparation Materials Graduate Resources Graduate Dissertation Announcements Faculty & Staff Resources College of Education Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Back Marketing & Communications Prospective Faculty & Staff Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index