Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Enrollment Services Registrar Graduation & Diploma Services Graduation & Diploma Services Commencement Participation An All-University Commencement is held in May for students enrolled and on schedule to complete degree requirements during the spring term. If you are enrolled and on schedule to complete all degree requirements during the following summer session, you may also participate in the University Commencement Convocation, although your degree is not conferred until August. You may also participate in departmental or school ceremonies following the University commencement according to the policies of the departments or schools. An All-University December Commencement is held each year for students completing degree requirements during the fall term. If you complete degree requirements during the previous summer session you may also participate. If you are on schedule and enrolled to complete all degree requirements during the following Jan Term (January) intersession, you may also participate in the December ceremony, although your degree is not conferred until January. You may participate once in either the All-University Commencement Convocation in May or the All-University December Commencement for a given degree, but not both. To participate in a ceremony, you must apply online and file with your school's records office an Application for Candidacy to Graduate or Intent to Participate Form. To Apply for Graduation: Applications for Candidacy to Graduate are made available through your school of record. Please contact your graduation adviser. Apply for graduation online through the Student Center on my. SMU. You will be contacted by your school of record informing you that you are eligible to apply for graduation. If you have any questions, please contact your school of record. Last date to file for Spring 2022 graduation - January 24, 2022 Last date to file for Summer 2022 graduation - June 6, 2022 Last date to file for Fall 2022 graduation - August 26, 2022 A $30 late fee may be applied to your account when the Registrar’s Office receives an Application for Candidacy to Graduate (ACG) after the conferral date noted in the SMU academic catalog. Degree Certification and Apostille International companies or institutions may require a certified copy of a diploma for the purpose of employment or to attend educational institutions. The University Registrar’s Office can assist you in obtaining the degree certifications. SMU degree certifications are accepted both domestically and internationally. You can order a Degree Certification (Apostille) or Transcript certification through the RO MarketPlace. If you have in your possession your diploma: You may bring your diploma to the University Registrar's Office located in the Laura Lee Blanton Building, Room 101. The University Registrar’s Office will provide a set of three notarized copies of your diploma for a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) (order and pay through the RO MarketPlace). The documents include the signature of the Associate Registrar, the Notary’s seal, signature, and expiration date of the Notary. If you cannot bring the diploma in, please mail the diploma to either address below. USPS Mailing Address University Registrar Southern Methodist University PO Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275-0181 Delivery Address Southern Methodist University Laura Lee Blanton Building, Suite 300 6185 Airline Rd Dallas, TX 75205 If you do not have access to your diploma or it's no longer available: A replacement diploma will need to be ordered through the RO MarketPlace. It may take 3-4 weeks for the new diploma to arrive. Once the University Registrar’s Office has received your diploma, we will then begin the degree certification process. The Apostille seal is affixed to the documents by the Secretary of State’s Office in Austin, Texas. For the mailing address and price information for the Apostille, please visit the Texas Secretary of State Office website and complete forms 2101 and 2102 listed on item 2 - Authentications Unit. Once the certifications have been processed and notarized by the University Registrar’s Office, the following options are available for obtaining the Apostille: The documents can be returned to you from the University Registrar’s Office and you can forward with your instructions to the Texas Secretary of State’s Office. With written consent, the documents can be released to a third party as specified on the “Student’s Consent for SMU to Release Information to Student’s Specified Third Party” form who may then forward documents to the Texas Secretary of State's Office. For additional assistance please contact Jackie Wilborn, Manager of Diploma Services at jwilborn@smu.edu or 214-768-2048. Diploma Names You may request a name change on your diploma provided it meets the University requirements as stated below. The name that will appear on your diploma will be selected from the following: The legal name listed in my.SMU. The "Primary" name in my.SMU is the field which will be used to print on the diploma. The "Preferred" name is not an option to be printed on the diploma. The "Degree" name can include the following: A first name may be shortened to an initial (e.g. Larry is now "L"). An initial can be expanded (e.g., J is now Judy). A middle name can be added that is not currently listed in my.SMU (e.g., John Doe is now John "Michael" Doe). With the exceptions above, first and last name changes cannot be removed, altered, or printed on a diploma without proper documentation that the name change has legally occurred. This is verified via the social security number (SSN) or a valid passport. You should provide either an original Social Security Card (or the form issued by the Social Security Administration verifying that application has been made) or a valid passport. You may take either document to the University Registrar and a copy will be made. The original document will immediately be returned to you. The University Registrar is located in the Laura Blanton Student Services Bldg., Room 101, 6185 Airline Rd. Office hours are as follows: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday - 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Wednesday - 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. You may also mail a notarized copy of the social security card. The notary stamp must be visible. USPS Mailing Address University Registrar Southern Methodist University PO BOX 750181 Dallas, TX 75275-0181 Degree Honors The minimum graduation honors GPA's are announced in October for each academic year. The minimum GPA's represent the top 5 percent, 10 percent, and 15 percent in the five undergraduate schools – Cox, Dedman (including Evening Studies), Lyle, Meadows, and Simmons. Click here to learn more about Degree Honors Diploma Mailings Spring 2022 Degrees Diplomas are scheduled to be mailed to your HOME or DIPLOMA address on Thursday, June 16, 2022. Please make sure to check my.SMU to verify you have a correct address listed. Summer 2022 Degrees Summer diplomas will be mailed to your home address in late August. Please make sure to check my.SMU to verify you have a correct HOME or DIPLOMA address listed. Fall 2022 Degrees Fall diplomas will be mailed to your home address in late January. Please make sure to check my.SMU to verify you have a correct HOME or DIPLOMA address listed NOTE: If you owe money to the University, you will not receive your diploma until your account has been cleared. Diploma Information and Size Diplomas contain your name, degree name, conferral date, signature of the academic Dean(s), and the officials who are currently in office. Majors are printed on the diplomas. Diplomas are printed in the two sizes below: Undergraduate diplomas are 8 ½ x 11. Graduate and Professional diplomas are 11 x 14. Current Students Graduation candidates who successfully complete degree requirements are awarded degrees through their academic school of record. The University Registrar orders diplomas at the conclusion of each academic term. Diplomas are mailed directly from the vendor to the candidate’s address that is provided in my.SMU. Students are notified via e-mail when their diplomas have been shipped. Replacement Diploma You may order an additional copy of your diploma through the RO MarketPlace. Statute of Limitations for Degree Plans A student who has been readmitted to the University following an absence of more than three years will be expected to meet all current requirements for graduation. Links Academic Ceremonies Texas Secretary of State office - Apostilles/Authentication of Documents Registrar Academic Advising Calendars and Course Catalogs Registrar Office Teams Academic Ceremonies Academic Records Credit by Examination Alumni and Former Students Confidentiality FERPA Securing & Protecting Student Records Current Students Degree Verifications Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Faculty and Staff FAQs Forms Library Graduation & Diploma Services History SMU Honor Roll Registrar's Office Marketplace Preferred Name & Name Change Non-Degree and Visiting Students NCAA Academic Certification Summer School Transcript Requests Transfer and Transition Services Transfer Credit Veterans Affairs Contact Us Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share