Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager STIs Syphilis Updated December 2016 What is syphilis? Syphilis is the oldest recognized STI and remains a common, although serious, infection that can be debilitating and even result in death if left untreated. It is caused by corkscrew-shaped bacteria called Treponema pallidum. Is it common? In 2014, there were a reported 63,450 cases of syphilis in the US. How is it transmitted? The syphilis bacteria are transmitted by having direct contact with a syphilis sore. These sores can be found in the external genital area, the vagina, anus, rectum, on the lips and in the mouth. You can get and spread syphilis through oral, anal, and vaginal sex or through other intimate sexual contact including kissing. You can have syphilis without knowing it and pass it on to others. Syphilis may also be transmitted during pregnancy from mother to fetus through the placenta. What are the symptoms and how long after exposure will they appear? Syphilis has three stages and there are different symptoms that are associated with each stage. The stages may overlap with one another and an infected person may not always experience the symptoms in the same sequence. It is important to note that like other STIs, it is common that a person infected with syphilis will not show any symptoms. If you think you are infected, avoid any sexual contact and visit Health Services or a local STI clinic or your medical provider immediately. During the first stage, if a person does experience symptoms, a painless sore called a chancre may appear at the spot where the bacteria first entered the body. The chancre is usually firm, round, and small and will appear within 2 to 12 weeks after sexual contact with an infected person. This sore may appear around or in the vagina, on the penis, on the lips or inside the mouth or anus. Sores are often unnoticed and may disappear on their own if not treated, but the bacterial infection remains. The second stage occurs from 3 weeks to 3 months after the primary stage and symptoms include fever, swollen lymph glands, sore throat, patchy hair loss, headaches, weight loss, muscle aches, and fatigue. Some people experience a rash on the palms of their hands and soles of their feet, as well as over their entire body. But the rash may be faint enough not to be noticed and may disappear on its own even without treatment. During these first 2 phases, an infected person is highly contagious and can easily pass the infection to sex partners. If untreated, the third stage of syphilis can appear 3 to 10 years or more after the first and second stages. Symptoms of this stage may include skin lesions, mental deterioration, loss of balance and vision, loss of sensation, shooting pains in the legs, and heart disease. How is it diagnosed? Your medical provider will either examine material from an infectious sore or s/he will perform a simple blood test to determine whether or not you have syphilis. However, if you were infected within 2 to 3 weeks before your blood test, the test might not be sensitive enough to find evidence of the bacteria. How is it treated? Fortunately, all stages of syphilis can be treated with antibiotics but damage caused by the disease in the third stage cannot be undone. The most common treatments are penicillin injections. Be sure that any partner(s) are tested and treated and avoid all sexual contact until the infection is cured. Can a syphilis infection be dangerous? Left untreated, a syphilis infection can be fatal. In the third stage of the infection, a person may experience internal organ damage, paralysis, numbness, gradual blindness and dementia. This damage may be serious enough to cause death. If you think you have any risk of exposure to syphilis, get tested and get treatment. If a pregnant person has been infected, they have a high chance of having a stillbirth or of giving birth to a baby that dies shortly after birth. If not treated immediately, an infected baby may be born without symptoms but could develop them within a few weeks. These signs and symptoms can be very serious. Untreated babies may become developmentally delayed, have seizures, or die. Because of this, every person giving birth should have the blood test to eliminate the risk. Related Links For more information about syphilis, you can visit: American Social Health Association CDC's National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook