Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Degrees Art Professions Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate Degrees Arts Business Computing Education Engineering Health Professions Humanities Liberal Studies Social Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Arts Graduate Programs Master of Music in Music Education Pursue your graduate studies in music education WHILE you continue to teach through our online master of music education graduate program. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Arts Entrepreneurship The Arts Entrepreneurship Graduate Certificate is an available program for prospective businessmen and women with existing backgrounds in creative fields. The certificate will aim for an overarching understanding of and work within entrepreneurship, including the history, social impact, and ethics of this type of work; learning how to articulate a vision for a particular product or idea; developing a business model alongside knowledge of leadership and management development; learning how to best frame, market, and promote a product or idea; and culminating in developing a pitch deck and provide a formal pitch of the idea at the Arts Entrepreneurship Annual Conference to potential investors and other entrepreneurs. Learn More Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies Museums anchor communities, celebrate cultures, preserve heritage, stimulate discovery, embrace diversity, innovate learning, and engage people with each other and important issues of our time. The online Graduate Certificate program prepares students who are currently enrolled in or have completed master's or doctoral degree programs to enter the museum professions. Since its start in 2003, the Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies has prepared students for positions in museum administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition development, curation, and public programs. Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.