Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print How the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab contributed to the new world record in clean fusion energy John Greenwald, Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Feb. 15, 2022, 11 a.m. Research by scientists at the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL) has played a supporting role in the recent major advance in the production of fusion power at the Joint European Torus (JET) in the United Kingdom. In the recently disclosed breakthrough by the EUROfusion research consortium that contributes to JET, the largest and most powerful tokamak fusion facility in current use set an historic record in the production of experimental fusion energy. That energy totaled 59 megajoules for five seconds, a fusion power output that averaged 11.8 million Watts. That production was more than two-and-a-half times the world record that JET previously set in 1997. Fusion, the power that drives sun and stars, combines light elements in the form of plasma — the hot, charged state of matter composed of free electrons and atomic nuclei, or ions, making up 99% of the visible universe — to generate massive amounts of energy. Scientists around the world are seeking to reproduce and control fusion on Earth for a virtually inexhaustible supply of safe and clean power to generate electricity. Tokamaks, doughnut-shaped magnetic fusion facilities, are the most widely used experimental devices in these efforts. High-power fusion fuel The new record came during a five-month campaign in which EUROfusion tested high-power fusion fuel that was last used in the 1990s and will next power ITER, the international tokamak under construction in France. The fuel combines the hydrogen isotopes deuterium and tritium (D-T) that ITER plans to use to prove the feasibility of producing controlled fusion energy. JET is currently the only tokamak in the world that can operate using the D-T fuel planned for ITER and future fusion power plants. Studies conducted ahead of the JET experiments included those delivered by PPPL. “We provided and operated a diagnostic to measure the loss of energetic ions,” said Mario Podesta, the PPPL physicist who led the work. “Such ions produce fusion reactions and provide heat to the plasma and understanding why they are lost is the first step to improving their confinement.” The results have proved essential. “The collaboration between PPPL and JET has been very important in order to study and characterize fast ions losses before the D-T campaign and I am convinced that the diagnostic managed by PPPL will provide key physics about energetic particles in D-T,” said Jeronimo Garcia, JET Task Force Leader responsible for the collaboration between JET and PPPL. Garcia added that PPPL’s TRANSP computer code plays an important role in the analysis and prediction of plasmas with D-T. The TRANSP team, led by PPPL physicist Francesca Poli, continues working with the JET team on upgrades to the code that support the JET campaign in preparation for ITER operation. Researchers from PPPL who contributed to the advance at JET (from top): Francesca Poli, Mario Podesta, Anna Teplukhina, Philip Bonofiglo. Photos by Elle Starkman/Office of Communications for Podesta, Poli and Teplukhina; Kate Yang for Bonofiglo. PPPL became a pioneer user of D-T in 1991. Its Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor (TFTR) ran on the high-power fuel from 1991 to 1997, set a then-world record for producing fusion power in 1992 and now is dismantled. JET also began its D-T use in 1991 and in 1997 set the record eclipsed by its recent five-month campaign that ended last December and has now been reported. The recent production of fusion power marks a major step toward the creation of safe and clean fusion energy to offset global climate change. “It’s clear we must make significant changes to address the effects of climate change, and fusion offers so much potential,” said Ian Chapman, CEO of the EUROfusion member UKAEA (United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority) that operates JET in Britain’s Culham Centre for Fusion Energy on behalf of EUROfusion. “We’re building the knowledge and developing the new technology required to deliver a low carbon, sustainable source of baseload energy that helps protect the planet for future generations,” Chapman said. JET has long been a testbed for ITER, which applauded the new results. “A sustained pulse of deuterium-tritium fusion at this power level — nearly industrial scale — delivers a resounding confirmation to all of those involved in the global fusion quest,” said Bernard Bigot, ITER Director-General. “For the ITER Project, the JET results are a strong confidence builder that we are on the right track as we move forward toward demonstrating full fusion power.” JET will now follow up its D-T campaign from mid-2022 to 2023 before ITER starts operating in 2025. ITER will begin using the D-T combination in 2035 when its plans call for the production of “burning plasmas” — largely self-sustaining fusion reactions — that will produce 10 times more energy than will be required to heat the plasma to the roughly 150 million degree temperatures that can create fusion energy. Additional researchers who worked on the JET collaboration include physicist Philip Bonofiglo, who has operated the PPPL diagnostic for studying fast ions in JET experiments for the past two years. Also collaborating was Anna Teplukhina, a former post-doctoral researcher at PPPL who ran TRANSP simulations and did analysis on fast ion transport. Support for this research comes from the DOE Office of Science. PPPL, on Princeton University's Forrestal Campus in Plainsboro, N.J., is devoted to creating new knowledge about the physics of plasmas — ultra-hot, charged gases — and to developing practical solutions for the creation of fusion energy. The Laboratory is managed by the University for the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science, which is the single largest supporter of basic research in the physical sciences in the United States and is working to address some of the most pressing challenges of our time. For more information, visit energy.gov/science. More on fusion research and innovation View All News DOE extends University PPPL contract University News: Read more A timeline of innovation and impact at Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Research: Read more Energy leaders are convening at the White House for a summit on the commercialization of clean fusion energy University News: Read more Fisch receives funding for 'unlikely but fantastic' clean energy technology Innovation: Read more PPPL researcher's work yields a breakthrough for a promising fusion-energy device Innovation: Read more White House and U.S. Department of Energy leaders meet at PPPL to discuss accelerating timeline to produce electricity from fusion energy: Read more Princeton alumna and postdoctoral fellow wins award for groundbreaking plasma physics Award: Read more Massive underground instrument finds final secret of our sun’s fusion Research: Read more Astrophysicist Kunz receives NSF award for research and for establishing plasma physics summer school aimed at attracting underrepresented students to field Award: Read more Princeton’s new supercomputer, Traverse, to accelerate scientific discovery in fusion research Innovation: Read more New national facility will explore low-temperature plasma — a dynamic source of innovation for modern technologies Innovation: Read more Artificial intelligence accelerates efforts to develop clean, virtually limitless fusion energy Research: Read more 'Ghost' particles, gliding through sun, reveal inner workings of solar furnace Research: Read more ‘These Vibes Are Too Cosmic’ brings science to WPRB Campus Life: Read more Fisch receives Fusion Power Associates’ Distinguished Career Award Award: Read more Secretary of Energy Perry says PPPL research has potential to ‘change the world’ University News: Read more Princeton astrophysicist Bhattacharjee leads team to create framework for an optimal fusion energy device Research: Read more Princeton senior's thesis project makes material difference in quest for fusion energy Academics: Read more William Tang wins 2018 Global Impact Award to advance development of AI software to help create a 'star on earth’ Award: Read more First plasma for new machine to study process that occurs throughout the universe Research: Read more Artificial intelligence helps accelerate progress toward efficient fusion reactions Research: Read more PPPL completes shipment of electrical components to power site for ITER, the international fusion experiment International: Read more PPPL dedicates upgraded fusion reactor, a powerful new 'star on Earth': Read more Video: Plasmas are hot, fusion is cool: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice