Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Research and Innovation Week Keynote Talk Undergraduate Poster Session Graduate Poster Session Departmental Events ☰ Research and Innovation Week Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Events Research and Innovation Week Research and Innovation Week Research and Innovation Week is SMU's showcase of the exciting research being done by our undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty. Members of the SMU community and the public are invited to join us to learn about the groundbreaking research being done at SMU. Research and Innovation Week 2022 will take place Monday, March 28-Friday, April 1. Upcoming events Keynote Talk: Impact and Promise of AI, Simulations and High-performance Computing Date: Monday March 28, 2022 Time: 6:00 PM Anima Anandkumar, Ph.D., Director of Machine Learning, NVIDIA, and Bren Professor, Caltech Computer & Mathematical Sciences Department Zoom Webinar. Registration required. Contact Information: aitkin@smu.edu Learn more and register Undergraduate Poster Session Date: Tuesday March 29, 2022 Time: 3:00 PM Poster presentations by SMU undergraduates in the Hughes-Trigg Student Center Ballroom. Contact Information: asneal@smu.edu Learn more about this event Graduate Poster Session Date: Wednesday March 30, 2022 Time: 2:00 PM Poster presentations by SMU graduate students in the Hughes-Trigg Student Center Ballroom. Contact Information: aitkin@smu.edu Learn more about this event Fellowship Panel Date: Friday April 01, 2022 Time: 1:30 PM Graduate Panel: Hughes-Trigg Student Center 226 and Zoom: https://smu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJMlf-ivrDwjG9ycCRGmzo0pYss7sc4pEVXo Undergraduate Panel: Hughes-Trigg Student Center 121 Both panels feature students from across campus who have applied for external fellowships and funding. Attendees will learn how to find fellowships, application support at SMU, and the benefits of applying for external awards. Graduate Panelists: Megan Brown (Anthropology) Nusaiba Chowdhury (Anthropology) Dani Ezor (Art History) Matthew O’Donohue (Lyle, Applied Sciences) Lauren Simms (Religious Studies) Contact Information: rmball@smu.edu Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share