COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home About For Media UH Home Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr RSS Youtube Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative By Campus dropdown menu column 1 Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi column 2 Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Submit Students explain value, opportunities at UH Community Colleges UH News » Community » Students explain value, opportunities… May 27, 2022 UH News Students of all ages and backgrounds, who—despite the pandemic—continued to pursue their educational goals at a University of Hawaiʻi Community College, are the stars of a new television, radio and digital marketing campaign to increase awareness among prospective and returning students. The “Make it Happen” campaign also highlights the opportunities and value offered by the seven campuses across the state. “There’s a lot of options for me here,” said UH Community College student Raymond Berdon, an aspiring social worker. “As a full-time worker, they work hard to meet your needs. If it wasn’t for the resources they provided to me, I wouldn’t be able to go to college to pursue my dreams.” A UH Community College education continues to be one of the most reasonably priced options in Hawaiʻi. The tuition cost for a full-time student is about $3,000 a year. In addition, UH Community Colleges offer the Hawaiʻi Promise Scholarship, which provides money from UH and the State of Hawaiʻi to eligible students to cover education costs—such as tuition, fees and books—that are not met by other forms of financial aid. Last year, 1,800 students from seven UH Community Colleges statewide benefitted with an average award of $1,629. Applications for the fall 2022 semester by Hawaiʻi public high school class of 2022 graduates look promising. As of May 23, the number of applications submitted had increased by more than 36% (3,900 applications compared to 2,900 last year). Earlier this year, the Kamaʻāina app was launched for Class of 2022 graduates to make the college application process easier. This new admission application takes students fewer than 15 minutes to complete with no fee, saving valuable time and money. “The pandemic caused a lot of uncertainty in our students’ lives and future plans,” UH Vice President of Community Colleges Erika Lacro said. “We want students to know there’s a place for everyone at our amazing and affordable campuses whether you’re starting an educational path towards a degree, preparing for a trade, or returning to pursue a mid-life career change that requires more education and training.” Related UH News stories: Free, fast UH Community College application available for Class of 2022, March 7, 2022 Hawaiʻi Promise Scholarship provides free tuition, more for community college, March 15, 2022 Related Posts: UH Mānoa appeals to local prospective students through media… UH Mānoa campaign challenges prospective students to make a… UH statewide media campaign hopes to ʻIgnite the Fire… admissionsHawaii Community CollegeHonolulu Community CollegeKapiolani Community CollegeKauai Community CollegeLeeward Community CollegemarketingUH Community CollegesUH Maui CollegeUH SystemWindward Community College Share This Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email Community Colleges UH Community Colleges Hawaiʻi CC Honolulu CC Kapiʻolani CC Kauaʻi CC Leeward CC UH Maui College Windward CC Most Popular 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say $2.5M grant to monitor space weather, making space travel safer Featured Video Congratulations spring 2022 UH grads! previous post: United Nations award for UH Pacific Disaster Center Watch the latest news of the University of Hawaiʻi View News Videos 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube RSS Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Work at UH By Categorydropdown menu Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative Videos By Campusdropdown menu Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Back To Top Search Submit