Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Acting Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Acting Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Acting Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Acting Undergraduate Certificate The Acting Undergraduate Certificate from Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts sets the stage for a career in the arts, as well as myriad professional endeavors. Explore your interest in acting, performance and self-expression through a curriculum designed to provide the fundamentals of the craft. You’ll collaborate with and learn from professional actors and experienced faculty to develop widely applicable skills, such as the creative process, collaboration, and public speaking and presentation, that are used in key professional development areas across many careers. Required courses investigate acting for professional careers in media and television; dance, speech and voice in acting; improvisation; and more. You’ll complete the coursework with a foundation in the basic core principles in acting and a potential pathway for additional training. The 12-credit certificate program is available to any student enrolled in a baccalaureate degree program at Temple. Classes & Curriculum All students in the Acting Undergraduate Certificate program take Fundamentals of Acting, a required course that reviews acting exercises, scene study and script analysis. Students can also choose from an array of electives, which include Acting for Commercials, Industrials and Voice-Overs; Acting Styles; Basic Movement; Dance for the Actor; Improvisation; Poetry as Performance; and Speech for the Actor. Learn more about coursework for the Acting Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Music Theater Studies MA Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Directing MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will guide you through choosing electives and registering for courses. Contact Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate certificate in Acting. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Matthew Miller, associate professor and head of theater education. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-ACTG-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Acting Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info