COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Supply Chain Management, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateSupply Chain Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences College of Engineering Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering The graduate certificate in supply chain management from Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business and the College of Engineering will equip you with knowledge of key enterprise-level information technology systems and supply chain practices used by companies around the world. The certificate is a valuable asset to your MBA degree. Learn how Supply Chain Management is the right fit for you. Contact coordinator at mehmet.barut@wichita.edu Curriculum To complete the certificate, you’ll choose from 12 credit hours of business and engineering courses based on your interests and career goals. Courses are structured to provide extensive conceptual and applied knowledge about enterprise-level systems and supply chain management. The curriculum is jointly offered by the Barton School of Business and the College of Engineering. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Similar Programs Management Science and Supply Chain Management (Master's) Business Administration (Master's) Engineering Management (Master's) Industrial Engineering (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©