Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE PSYCHIATRY & BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PBSCI 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 15) Opportunity to complete work on psychiatric research projects or to pursue a specific psychiatric topic in depth, for instance, through library research. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 498 PBSCI 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 15) Opportunities are available for participation in a wide variety of ongoing research in the behavioral sciences and clinical psychiatry, or for the development of an individual investigative project under the supervision of a faculty sponsor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 499 PBSCI 505 P-Psychiatry Preceptorship (1, max. 12) Opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to gain direct experience with clinical faculty members in psychiatry. Includes opportunities to observe different areas of psychiatry including addiction, child, geriatrics, community, crisis, and consultation. Prerequisite: permission of department. Instructors: Combs Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 505 PBSCI 525 P-Psychiatry and the Law (3) E. GOLDENBERG, J. PIEL Explores issues at the interface of law and psychiatry through didactic curriculum and research. Trainees develop an individualized research project with the assistance of their faculty mentors. Covers topics in civil and criminal forensic psychiatry, research ethics, research design, grantsmanship, and mental health law. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 525 PBSCI 546 Psychiatric Epidemiology (3) I. Rhew, A. Vander Stoep Using epidemiological methods to study mental illness. Topics include contributions of mental illness to global disease burden; major population-based studies of mental illness; measurement of psychopathology; culture and mental illness; role of neurodevelopment, genetics, social and physical environment in etiology of mental disorders; mental health services research. Prerequisite: either EPI 511, EPI 512, HSERV 591, or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with EPI 546. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 546 PBSCI 580 Applied Research in Behavioral Health and Justice Policy (2) Direct experience working with community agencies to build research capacity. Emphasized child welfare, children's mental/behavioral health, and juvenile justice. Seminars cover translational research, community-based research, and communicating research to program and policy audiences. For graduate students, psychiatric residents, and graduate psychology, psychosocial nursing, social work, and public health students. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 580 PBSCI 598 P-Psychiatry Independent Study and Remediation (*, max. 8) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Psychiatry Clerkship offered during the patient care phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: department permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 598 PBSCI 600 Research in Psychiatry ([1-15]-) Independent laboratory research under the guidance and supervision of research scientists in the Psychiatry Department. Faculty permission required. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 600 PBSCI 630 P-WRITE Psychiatry Clinical Clerkship (*, max. 24) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in the WRITE Program. Prerequisite: completion of basic curriculum; third- and fourth-year students; acceptance in the WRITE program. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 630 PBSCI 631 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Juneau, AK (1-24, max. 25) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Juneau, Alaska. Fulfills graduation requirements for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 631 PBSCI 632 P-LIC Psychiatry Clinical Clerkship (1-12, max. 12) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in the LIC program. Prerequisite: acceptance into LIC program. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 632 PBSCI 633 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Billings Clinic (1-24, max. 25) Rotations on inpatient adult, child, and adolescent psychiatry, consultations, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), crisis stabilization units (CSU), psychiatry teleconsultation (project ECHO). Involves a range of psychiatric disorders and substance abuse. Professional experiences working with nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and social workers. Drug screening prior to student rotation. Prerequisite: successful completion of School of Medicine 1st and 2nd year foundation courses. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 633 PBSCI 635 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Kalispell (1-24, max. 24) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Kalispell, MT. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 635 PBSCI 637 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Fairfax - Kirkland, WA (12) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Kirkland, Washington. Fulfills graduation requirements for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 637 PBSCI 639 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Olympia (12) Basic psychiatry clerkship at Olympia, WA. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 639 PBSCI 640 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Pocatello (12) Basic psychiatry clerkship at in Pocatello, ID. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 640 PBSCI 641 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Orofino, ID (12) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Orofino, ID. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 641 PBSCI 642 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Blackfoot ID (1-24, max. 25) Students will spend most of their time in a State hospital with 29 geriatric, 90 adult, and 16 adolescent beds. Students participate as a member of a multidisciplinary team and have exposure to a wide range of psychiatric illnesses including mood, anxiety, psychotic, personality and substance use disorders. They have the opportunity to spend time in the outpt setting at the Fort Hall Indian Reservation and spend time with a psychopharmacologist. Prerequisite: Successful completion of School of Medicine 1st and 2nd year foundation courses. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 642 PBSCI 649 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship-Eastern State Hospital-Spokane (1-24, max. 25) Basic psychiatry clerkship at Eastern State Hospital in Spokane, WA. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in Psychiatry. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 649 PBSCI 652 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Sheridan, WY (12) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Sheridan, WY. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 652 PBSCI 655 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Cheyenne (1-24, max. 25) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Cheyenne, WY. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 655 PBSCI 659 Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Anaconda, MT (12) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Anaconda, MT. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 659 PBSCI 660 P-Basis Psychiatry Clerkship-Bozeman (1-24, max. 25) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Bozeman, MT. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 660 PBSCI 661 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Helena (1-24, max. 25) Basic psychiatry clerkship in Helena, MT. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 661 PBSCI 662 P- Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Missoula (1-24, max. 25) Students work at St. Patrick Hospital with adult and adolescent inpatients and in the emergency room for emergent-care exposure. Students have outpatient experience through the adult intensive outpatient program, Pain Treatment Center, and in faculty outpatient practices. Didactics include psychopharmacology, addiction, psychosis, mood disorders, child and geriatric psychiatry. Prerequisite: completion of the HUBIO series; third and fourth year students. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 662 PBSCI 663 P- Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Billings (1-24, max. 25) Students work at South Center Regional Mental Health Center and Behavioral Sciences Clinic with adult and adolescent inpatients, in the emergency room for emergent care exposure. Outpatient experience including consultations at the community mental health center, Indian reservation, and prison. Didactics include psychopharmacology, addiction, psychosis, mood disorders, child and geriatric psychiatry. A vehicle is needed by students at this site. Prerequisite: completion of the HUBIO series; third and fourth year students. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 663 PBSCI 665 P-Basic Clinical Clerkship (*, max. 24) Inpatient clerkship in psychiatry. Students have primary responsibility under direction of attending psychiatrists and residents for diagnosis and care of patients at UW Medical Center, Harborview Medical Center, or Veterans Administration Hospital. Emergency room, crisis intervention, consultation to patients with psychiatric dysfunction. Familiarity with psychopharmacology and short-term hospitalization emphasized. (Six weeks, full-time.) View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 665 PBSCI 666 P-WWAMI Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Clerkship (12) Rotation aims to increase student's skills in basic psychiatry, social psychiatry, transcultural psychiatry, and community psychiatry. Orientation is around the diagnosis, treatment, and clinical management of white, Aleut, Indian, and Eskimo children and adults in outpatient, inpatient, and community settings. Third-, fourth-year medical students. (Limit: Two or three students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 666 PBSCI 667 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Boise (1-24, max. 25) Basic psychiatry clerkship at Veterans' Administration Medical Center in Boise, Idaho. Fulfills graduation requirement for clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 667 PBSCI 668 P-Psychiatry Clerkship - Spokane (1-24, max. 25) Students work on adult, geriatric, and adolescent inpatient psychiatric units of Sacred Heart Medical Center, following patients after transfer to partial hospitalization or outpatient clinic. Didactics include basic psychiatric diagnosis, treatment, and pharmacotherapy. (Limit: two or three students). Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series; third and fourth-year medical students. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 668 PBSCI 669 P-Basic Psychiatry Clerkship - Casper, Wyoming (12) Students work in the Wyoming Behavioral Institute with adult, adolescent, and child inpatients. Students have some outpatient experience and emergent care assessment experience at the Wyoming Medical Center. Didactics and discussion include topics such as psychopharmacology, emergent care and assessment, diagnosis, and substance abuse issues. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 669 PBSCI 670 P-Clerkship in Consultation/Liaison Psychiatry - UWMC (*, max. 24) Assessment of patients with major psychosocial problems associated with physical disease, including: problems stemming from the way the illness is perceived and experienced, liaison with other clinical disciplines on complex diagnosis and treatment of problems. (Limit: one student; two or four weeks.) Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 670 PBSCI 671 P-Clerkship in Consultation/Liaison Psychiatry - HMC (*, max. 24) Students receive organized instruction and supervised clinical experience in the evaluation of psychiatric and/or behavioral problems in patients on medical and surgical services, and in effectively consulting with their health care providers regarding their clinical management. Includes evaluation of (non-financial) decisional competency. (Limit: two students). Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 671 PBSCI 672 P-Elective Clerkship in Primary Care Psychiatry - Boise, VAMC (8/12) Assessment and treatment of patients with acute psychiatric problems in a primary care/rural setting. Consultation work on general medicine and surgery; assessment and dealing with outpatient psychiatric problems as they initially present. Evaluations, crisis intervention strategies, and brief therapies stressed. Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship (Four weeks; visiting students interested in the Boise Psych Residency Track allowed.) View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 672 PBSCI 673 P-Outpatient Psychiatry Elective (*, max. 24) Offered at Harborview Outpatient Center. Students function as subinterns, conducting diagnostic interviews, initiating and managing pharmacotherapeutic treatment regimens, and providing crisis intervention, under the supervision of the full-time attending at Psychopharmacology Clinic. (Four to six weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 673 PBSCI 674 P-Elective in Therapeutic Communication (4-8) J. Carr, H. Combs Students participate in diverse, interdisciplinary clinical encounters while being supervised by advanced psychotherapists. Includes multidisciplinary chemical dependency evaluations, cognitive assessments, cognitive-behavioral training, and hypnosis. Students complete a holistic patient assessment and are introduced to the complexities of therapeutic communication and improvement methods. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 674 PBSCI 676 P-Inpatient Clerkship in Psychiatry - American Lake VA (8/12) For medical students with a defined interest in psychiatry who wish to develop their knowledge and skills in the evaluation, management, and treatment of a wide range of acute and chronic psychiatric conditions requiring inpatient hospital treatment. (Four or six weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. Instructors: Johnston View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 676 PBSCI 677 P-Alcohol and Drug Treatment Clerkship - American Lake VA (8/12) Student assists in every phase of the substance-abuse treatment, including admission interviews, patient evaluation, problem identification, group and individual psychotherapy, assertiveness training, anger control, human sexuality, medical evaluation and treatment, couples therapy, discharge and aftercare planning. Experience primarily clinical. Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. (Four or six weeks, full-time). Instructors: Lim View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 677 PBSCI 678 P-Clerkship in Psychiatric Long-Term Care and Rehabilitation (*, max. 12) Two- to six-week clerkship provides learning experiences in rehabilitation of long-term psychiatric patients with medical illness. Multidisciplinary team approach, working with homeless mentally ill. Diagnostic skills emphasized. Spectrum of diseases (cardiovascular, Huntington's, organic brain syndrome) is such that physical rehabilitation is not an emphasis. Prerequisite: HUBIO 563; satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. Instructors: Johnston View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 678 PBSCI 680 P-Clerkship in Emergency Psychiatry (*, max. 24) Emphasis on clinical evaluation, acute management, and treatment planning for individual patients. Experience in coordinating these activities with other emergency room personnel, and various hospital and community resources. Emphasis on skills useful to physicians in any specialty. Third- and fourth-year medical students only. (Four or six weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. Instructors: Pasic View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 680 PBSCI 681 Advanced Clerkship Inpatient Geropsychiatry - Sheridan WY (8) Experiences that provide focused training in geropsychiatry to 4th year medical students. Students are assigned to the inpatient geropsychiatry unit where they are directly involved with the admission, assessment, and treatment planning of older patients with behavioral health issues. The student is involved in all aspects of care including medication management and recommendation for group/milieu therapy. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 681 PBSCI 682 P-Addiction Medicine - Rock Spring WY (4) Students identify, assess, diagnose, and treat addiction disorders in inpatient and outpatient settings through hospital rounds, inpatient hospital consults, and observation of intensive outpatient groups. 2 weeks. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 682 PBSCI 685 P-Geriatric Psychiatry Clerkship (*, max. 12) Two- to six-week elective (four weeks highly recommended). Participation in the evaluation and care of older persons with psychopathology, such as intellectual impairment and depression, in a variety of settings. Emphasis on improving clinical skills regarding diagnosis and treatment of common behavioral problems in the elderly. Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship, vehicle required for this rotation. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 685 PBSCI 688 P-Subinternship in General Psychiatry (*, max. 16) Students function as interns under the supervision of house staff and attending psychiatrists. Further development of their diagnostic and therapeutic skills emphasized. Special areas of interest, such as family intervention, substance abuse, psychoses, neuropsychiatry, community psychiatry, administration, research pursued. (Four or six weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship; permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 688 PBSCI 689 P-Subinternship in General Psychiatry - Spokane, WA (8, max. 16) Students function as interns under the supervision of house staff and attending psychiatrists. Further development of their diagnostic and therapeutic skills emphasized. Special areas of interest, such as family interventions, substance abuse, psychoses, neuropsychiatry, community psychiatry, administration, research pursued. (Four or six weeks, full time.) Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship, instructor permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 689 PBSCI 695 P-Advanced Clerkship in Child Psychiatry - CSTC (*, max. 24) Provides an opportunity to participate in evaluation and treatment of children and adolescents in Lakewood, WA. Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship; fourth year medical student status. 2/4/6 weeks. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 695 PBSCI 696 P-Advanced Clerkship in Child Psychiatry (*, max. 24) Provides students an opportunity to participate in evaluation and treatment. Experiences in specialized clinics are also available. (Four or six weeks, full-time. Limit: one student). Prerequisite: satisfactory completion of required psychiatry clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 696 PBSCI 697 P-Psychiatry Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement, clerkships, externships, and research opportunities can be taken at other institutions. Students obtain permission from Dr. Combs before contacting the dean's office one month before advance registration. Students contact affiliating institutions. Does not fulfill the requirement for a basic clerkship in psychiatry. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 697 PBSCI 699 P-WWAMI Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: PBSCI 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022