COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall May 25, 2022 — The Woolseys have made an additional gift from their trust of $1.3 million to Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall at Wichita State University. A portion of the gift will be used to create the Kay Woolsey Garden, with the remainder going toward the Woolsey Hall Technology Fund. WSU's Shocker Success Center: An oasis of opportunity May 11, 2022 — Former Wichita State University students might remember Clinton Hall as a dark and cold building, but starting in September, it will begin its metamorphosis into the bright and welcoming Shocker Success Center. This project will completely transform Clinton Hall into a holistic resource for student services, said Elizabeth King, president and CEO of the WSU Foundation. Centralizing access to these services will help students stay on course to graduate. Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award May 9, 2022 — Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. Pamela and Alex Ammar honored with Fairmount Founders' Award their support of WSU May 6, 2022 — Pamela Clancy Ammar and Alex Ammar were named recipients of the 2022 Fairmount Founders’ Award at the annual Fairmount Society dinner held on May 5 at Mark Arts. The WSU Foundation gives the award out annually to recognize those who provide outstanding service and generosity to Wichita State University. Credit Union of America pledges $250,000 gift, recognized as Champion for College of Applied Studies May 2, 2022 — Credit Union of America was recognized today as a 2022 Champion for Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies, honoring its ongoing engagement and financial support of the future educators of Kansas. CUA has pledged an additional $250,000 to the college to continue funding the Corbin Connect program, ongoing technology needs, scholarships, and programming for CAS students. WSU business school surpasses $1 million scholarship landmark April 11, 2022 — The W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University has surpassed seven figures in annual scholarships for its students, with funds being distributed throughout the 2021-2022 season. WSU College of Engineering awards $313,500 in Wallace Scholarships March 25, 2022 — Wichita State University’s College of Engineering has named the latest group of high school seniors to join the Wallace Scholar program. Ten Wallace Scholarship recipients will receive $28,500 each to attend Wichita State for four years. In addition, two students receiving other major university scholarships will be designated as Wallace Scholars. $540,000 gift helps WSU Barton School launch Student Career Development Office March 23, 2022 — The Wichita State University Foundation has secured a $540,000 lead gift from Meritrust Credit Union to expand the W. Frank Barton School of Business’ career efforts with the formation of the Office of Career and Professional Development. $3 million gift from J. Robert Young dedicated to WSU student success Feb. 23, 2022 — Wichita State alumnus J. Robert Young has pledged a gift of $3 million to provide resources that will help students build successful careers. Of that total, $2 million will endow the J. Robert Young Executive-in-Residence Program in the W. Frank Barton School of Business. The remaining $1 million will support the Shocker Success Center project, which will consolidate 17 student services in Clinton Hall. Estate gift from the late Richard 'Dick' Smith will fund $11 million in scholarships at Wichita State, KU Feb. 9, 2022 — A bequest from the estate of Richard "Dick" Smith will provide about $5.5 million each to Wichita State University and the University of Kansas to endow full-ride scholarships for students at those schools. Adelante Scholar talks about her journey to WSU Jan. 24, 2022 — Valeria Paunetto, originally from Puerto Rico, won the Adelante Scholarship in 2021, which has helped her pursue a degree in social work at Wichita State. First-gen student receives life-changing scholarship -- here's how he did it Nov. 24, 2021 – It was a bright and sunny afternoon in August 2021 when Pedro Piña-Guerrero received a call that would change his life: He had won the Adelante Scholarship to attend Wichita State University. Scholarship aimed at underrepresented students welcomes inaugural class Aug. 19, 2021 — As the fall 2021 semester begins, the 21 students in the inaugural class of Adelante Scholars have begun their careers as Wichita State University students. Couple's $3.5 million estate gift to provide scholarships for students with financial need Jan. 19, 2021 — A Kansas couple has pledged an estate gift of $3.5 million to the WSU Foundation to endow a general scholarship fund for Wichita State University students who demonstrate financial need. Shock the World Campaign donors raise $307.8 million for Wichita State Dec. 9, 2020 — The WSU Foundation's seven-year Shock the World campaign raised more than $300 million to fund scholarships and campus improvements at Wichita State University. 1 2 3 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©