Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research Category International Research Projects Related Projects Citizenship and service delivery in urban India Causes and consequences of early fertility Contraceptive use and non-use among young South African women Uncovering the untold story of enslaved Native Americans Every household is its own local government: Infrastructural deficiency, state complicity, and entrepreneurship in Nigeria Improving consistency in adolescent HIV treatment Research collaboration on masculinities and male sexual and reproductive health in Mexico Long-term effects of health and development interventions in rural Bangladesh Examining integrated treatment for HIV and non-communicable disease The Brown University and Ethiopia Partnership Preventing HIV among high-risk men in Mexico Policy research program on urbanization in developing countries Brazilian Mata Atlantica biome restoration program: a large-scale forest restoration experiment Family structures and postpartum mood and anxiety disorders among low-income women Public use data on Mexican immigration Examining the relationship between subways and urban pollution Migration, urbanization, and health in a transition setting Partnership for the next generation of HIV social science in South Africa Research Categories Rhode Island Projects Domestic Projects International Projects Research to Policy Projects Spatial Projects Selected Publications Implications of Social and Legal Status on Immigrants’ Health in Disaster Zones. Elizabeth Fussell et al. American Journal of Public Health. 2018. 108(12): 1617-1620. The Uptick in Income Segregation: Real Trend or Random Sampling Variation? John R. Logan, Arnold Foster, Jun Ke, And Fan Li. American Journal of Sociology. 2018. 124: 185-222. Masculinity, Money, and the Postponement of Parenthood in Nigeria. Smith, D. J. Population and Development Review. 2020. 46(1): 101-120. More Publications Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat