Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Hughes-Trigg Student Center Refreshed & Reimagined Give to the HTSC Renovation Project! Student Center and Activities Hughes-Trigg Student Center HTSC Renovations The Hughes-Trigg Student Center (HTSC) sits in the heart of SMU’s main campus creating community space for Mustangs to eat, socialize, plan organizational activities, study, and hang out. In May 2019, SMU launched a long-awaited multi-phase renovation of the Student Center. Varsity and Mane Course Open throughout construction, the phased project began with a full renovation of the Varsity and Mane Course. Students fell in love with spaces designed just for them featuring the Dallas-based Cinco Taco and a Chick-Fil-A expanded to provide full-service. The newly-imagined Varsity pairs a lower-level dining and hangout space with an elevated, fully-accessible gaming area featuring pool tables and shuffleboard. Eight big screen televisions and a SMU-centric design complete the modern and inviting space. L1 & L2 In 2020, the entire 2nd floor (L2) underwent renovation and now features a monumental staircase in the atrium, modern office suites, and inviting communal spaces. Design elements showcase Mustang spirit and pride with modern conference and meeting rooms outfitted with user-friendly technology. L2 also features new ablution rooms for our Muslim students’ prayer preparation. We’ve enhanced storage throughout the building, and visitors will find family restrooms on every floor. Level one’s (L1) open floor plan includes a new entrance on the east side to support the southeasterly growth of campus, a lactation room, and the wildly popular Panera Bread. The entire project enhanced building accessibility for all who utilize HTSC. A few minor projects are still ongoing, including the renovation of Gallery 1911 – scheduled for completion in fall 2021. Give to the HTSC Renovation Project Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share