Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Environmental Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Our complex world needs a highly trained workforce and leaders ready to tackle our environmental problems to guide us toward a healthier and more sustainable future. As an environmental engineer, you can be part of the solution. Environmental engineers use biology, chemistry, mathematics and the earth sciences to solve problems such as sustainability issues, contaminated water supplies, hazardous wastes, toxic waste spills, historically contaminated sites and air pollution. At Clemson, we mold research and classwork into a diverse environmental engineering degree that's the only ABET-accredited environmental engineering program in South Carolina. The world's need for environmental engineers is growing fast, and this profession has been continuously reported as one of the best jobs - with great pay and growth prospects. A Clemson degree will give you the skills necessary to join this rapidly growing field and tackle some of the major challenges facing society. FAST FACTS All students planning to choose an engineering discipline will apply to Clemson as a general engineering major. Clemson's environmental engineering program offers a technical and versatile curriculum led by world-class faculty. In 2012, Forbes magazine ranked environmental engineering No. 5 on its list of top 15 most valuable college majors. Clemson also has a nationally ranked environmental engineering graduate program, and we offer a five-year B.S./M.S. option. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you'll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. Once you dive into environmental engineering classes, you'll cover the principles of biology, chemistry and earth sciences, and learn how to solve our environmental problems. Environmental engineering courses address a wide range of topics including water and wastewater treatment, solid and hazardous waste management, air pollution control, sustainable solutions and risk assessment. Many electives are available to build strengths in areas such as energy and environment, environmental chemistry, natural systems, water quality modeling in natural systems and water quality in urban systems. Senior year, students participate in a professional seminar course and in a capstone design project. Hands-on research is fundamental in all of our engineering disciplines, and it's a time for you to learn which questions to ask and how to find the answers. B.S. Environmental Engineering / M.S. Environmental Engineering and Science: Top undergraduates pursuing an environmental engineering degree have the option of working toward their master's degree in environmental engineering and science while finishing their bachelor's degree. Curriculum Environmental Engineering, B.S. Similar Majors Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Geology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Within our vibrant research community, there are numerous projects and groups that you can get involved in. Research Some major research focus areas are pollution prevention, environmental contaminants, and the characterization and management of Earth resources. AWWA Chapter Clemson's chapter of the American Water Works Association has meetings, on-campus activities and field trips to keep students engaged with one another and the community. No Borders Clemson's student chapter of Engineers Without Borders develops sustainable solutions in the areas of clean water, power, sanitation and education for communities in developing countries. Co-op Put your classwork knowledge to work by spending alternate semesters working in industry and studying on campus as part of Clemson's cooperative education program. Learn More » Solid Green The mission of Clemson's environmental sustainability campaign is to promote a green campus by coordinating and sponsoring events that further our commitment to the environment and sustainability. Video See what our students have to say about majoring in environmental engineering at Clemson.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Environmental Engineering Club PEER WISE President's Commission on Sustainability AFTER GRADUATION Although Clemson has had a strong graduate environmental engineering degree for some time, the undergraduate major is relatively new. The first classes of undergraduates are graduating now and moving on to their next career step. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of them. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Environmental Engineer Black and Veatch Engineer U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Civil Analyst Kimley-Horn Environmental Education Coordinator Friends of Coastal South Carolina Environmental Engineer Specialist Federal Aviation Administration RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Environmental Engineering & Science Clemson University Ph.D. Marine Science University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill M.S. Environmental Engineering Air Force Institute of Technology Ph.D. Sustainable Water Development University of Iowa M.S. Environmental Engineering University of Tennessee COMMON CAREER AREAS Consulting Industrial and Municipal Pollution Control Pollution Prevention Sustainable Environment Water and Wastewater Utilities EPA or State Regulatory Environmental Agencies Management Research and Development Laboratory Natural System Management Sustainable Engineering FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Geology (B.S.)