Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Human Resources Menu Careers & Opportunities Research & Learn whyBaylor Staff Job Descriptions Apply & Interview Faculty Application Process Staff Application Process Veteran Resources for Interviewing New Hires & Onboarding New Faculty & Staff Staff - Before You Arrive Staff - Day One Staff - The Weeks Ahead Faculty - Before You Arrive Faculty - Day One Faculty - The Weeks Ahead Living in Waco Employment Forms by State Transition & Exit Benefits & Advantages My Benefits Veteran Resources Baylor Wellbeing Enrollment Benefitfocus Information 2022 Benefits Open Enrollment Retirement Investing in Your Retirement Preparing for Your Retirement Enjoying Your Retirement Retiree Benefits Overview Compensation Insurance Offerings Employee Recognition Submit a BaylorPLUS Salute Submit a BaylorPLUS Team Salute Staff Awards Tuition Remission Time Off & Leave Policies Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Employee & Family Resources Accommodations Baylor Advantages Athletic Tickets Baylor Bookstore Baby Bear Program Baylor Club at McLane Stadium Baylor Theatre Baylor Wellbeing BearStand Campus Recreation Credit Union Dell Store Dining Services Employee Assistance Program Game Room Go Gold! Program Health Center Martin Museum of Art Massage Therapy Mayborn Museum Complex Parking Personal Cell Phone Discounts School of Music University Libraries Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer Wondr Health Benefit Forms Manage & Lead Getting Started Core Commitments Leadership Commitments Management Toolkits & Guides Additional Resources Academic Administrative Resource Center Sabbaticals, Research Leaves, and Grants System Instructions & Access Questions Tuition & Teaching Staff Performance Review Process Learn & Grow Courses Available Course Listings Course Creation Lifelong Learning Program Continuing Education Program Career Tools RightNow Media @ Work LinkedIn Learning Educational Assistance Tuition Remission Tuition Reimbursement Professional Wellbeing LinkedIn Learning Contacts & Resources Engage with HR Contacts askHR HRC - Human Resources Consultants ERG - Employee Resource Groups Faculty Senate and Staff Council Provost Page Giving Policies & Postings State Employment Law Postings Required Annual Notices Workplace Concerns and Disclosures Additional HR Resources About Ignite Baylor>Human Resources>Benefits & Advantages>Retirement>Preparing for Your Retirement>Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Retirement Planning Program In This Guide Understanding the Faculty Retirement Planning Program Eligibility Current Retirement Pathways Plan B One Year Contract Plan C Two Year Contract Addendum A Departmental Procedures Resources Understanding the Faculty Retirement Planning Program The Faculty Retirement Planning Program was created by the Provost Office, Deans, Faculty Senate, and the President's Office to provide a predictable and proactive guide toward retirement. The three pathways are beneficial to you the retiree, and the University as it allows both you and the department adequate time to plan for the future. These long-term retirement pathways help ensure a smooth transition and facilitate a transition process for new hiring needs. You can read more about the Faculty Retirement Planning Program and find additional information here. Eligibility To retire at Baylor, you must be at least 55 years of age. Baylor has three retiree classifications. You can read more about the classifications here and in the Retirement Benefits policy. You should determine your retiree status prior to determining your retirement pathway. Current Retirement Pathways Plan B One Year Contract (Retiring in May 2023) Plan B is for faculty members who provide one year's academic notice of their intent to retire. The deadline for faculty members to opt into this plan is January 31, 2022. Contract Terms Under the Plan B pathway, you will receive a 3.25% merit pay increase during the final academic year of service, providing the annual performance review is "effective" or better. During the last academic year, you will not be required to participate in University committees, but you may choose to continue serving. If you are on a departmental and school/college committee that is deemed essential by the Dean or department chair, you may still be required to participate. A retirement planning award of $7,500 is payable within 45 days of signing a memorandum of understanding and retirement contract. During the last academic semester, a 50% reduction of workload is offered, with pay still at the full contract amount. If you accept this reduction in workload, you will work with the dean or department chair to determine the workload distribution of teaching, research, and other activities. Plan C Two Year Contract (Retiring in May 2024) Plan C is for faculty who give a two academic year notice of their intent to retire. The deadline for faculty members to opt into this plan is January 31, 2022. Contract Terms Under the Plan C pathway, you will receive a 3.25% merit pay increase for each of the final two academic years, providing the annual performance review is "effective" or better. During the last academic year, you will not be required to participate in University committees, but you may choose to continue serving. If you are on a departmental and school/college committee that is deemed essential by the Dean or department chair, you may still be required to participate. A retirement planning award of $7,500 is payable within 45 days of signing a memorandum of understanding and retirement contract. In the final spring semester, you are offered a retirement transition sabbatical (2 quarters), or a 50% reduction of workload during the full last contract year. In each case, pay is still at the full contractual amount. If you accept this reduction in workload, you will work with the dean or department chair to determine the workload distribution of teaching, research, and other activities. Addendum A Departmental Procedures 1. Chair and/or Dean receives notice of intent to retire. • Notice of intent should include the plan type (Plan B or Plan C) as well as the choice of reduced workload or sabbatical. • Notice is due to Chair or Dean each year by January 31 in order to be eligible. • The Chair will share all faculty with intent to retire with the Business Officer by January 31. Dean will approve the intent to retire. The Business Officer will ensure intent is communicated to HR by January 31. This will be cue to generate and disseminate the retirement contract to the Faculty member by March 5 pending faculty member eligibility. The $7,500 payment will be generated within 45 days after the signed retirement contract is returned to HR. Lastly, a retirement date will be placed within Ignite and a copy of the retirement contract saved to Box. For additional questions, faculty members should consult with their Business Officer, Provost Office, or reach out to askHR@baylor.edu. Resources - Faculty Retirement Incentive Current Faculty Retirement Pathways Benefits & Advantages My Benefits Veteran Resources Baylor Wellbeing Enrollment Benefitfocus Information 2022 Benefits Open Enrollment Retirement Investing in Your Retirement Preparing for Your Retirement Enjoying Your Retirement Retiree Benefits Overview Compensation Insurance Offerings Employee Recognition Submit a BaylorPLUS Salute Submit a BaylorPLUS Team Salute Staff Awards Tuition Remission Time Off & Leave Policies Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Employee & Family Resources Accommodations Baylor Advantages Athletic Tickets Baylor Bookstore Baby Bear Program Baylor Club at McLane Stadium Baylor Theatre Baylor Wellbeing BearStand Campus Recreation Credit Union Dell Store Dining Services Employee Assistance Program Game Room Go Gold! Program Health Center Martin Museum of Art Massage Therapy Mayborn Museum Complex Parking Personal Cell Phone Discounts School of Music University Libraries Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer Wondr Health Benefit Forms Baylor Human Resources Putting people first. Clifton Robinson Tower | Suite 200 700 S University Parks Dr Waco, TX 76706 One Bear Place #97053 Waco, TX 76798 254-710-2000 askhr@baylor.edu Ask HRAboutJobsDisclosuresVisitPolicies Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Careers & Opportunities Research & Learn whyBaylor Staff Job Descriptions Apply & Interview Faculty Application Process Staff Application Process Veteran Resources for Interviewing New Hires & Onboarding New Faculty & Staff Getting Started Before You Arrive Day 1 The Weeks Ahead Staff - Before You Arrive Staff - Day One Staff - The Weeks Ahead Faculty - Before You Arrive Faculty - Day One Faculty - The Weeks Ahead Living in Waco Employment Forms by State Transition & Exit Benefits & Advantages My Benefits Veteran Resources Baylor Wellbeing Enrollment Benefitfocus Information 2022 Benefits Open Enrollment Retirement Investing in Your Retirement Baylor Retirement Plan - 403(b) Baylor 457(b) Plan Importance of Retirement Planning Preparing for Your Retirement Faculty Retirement Planning Program Enjoying Your Retirement Retiree Benefits Overview Compensation Insurance Offerings Employee Recognition Submit a BaylorPLUS Salute Submit a BaylorPLUS Team Salute Staff Awards 2021 Staff Award Winners Amber George Brett Gibson Emily Leavitt Nathanael Mosher Alana Schaeper Nick Werse Krista Howell Kathy Krey Melissa Stone The Baylor VA Benefits Team Tuition Remission Time Off & Leave Policies Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Employee & Family Resources Accommodations Baylor Advantages Athletic Tickets Baylor Bookstore Baby Bear Program Baylor Club at McLane Stadium Baylor Theatre Baylor Wellbeing BearStand Campus Recreation Credit Union Dell Store Dining Services Employee Assistance Program Game Room Go Gold! Program Health Center Martin Museum of Art Massage Therapy Mayborn Museum Complex Parking Personal Cell Phone Discounts School of Music University Libraries Vanguard College Preparatory School Scholarship Offer Wondr Health Benefit Forms Manage & Lead Getting Started Core Commitments Leadership Commitments Management Toolkits & Guides Additional Resources Academic Administrative Resource Center Sabbaticals, Research Leaves, and Grants System Instructions & Access Questions Tuition & Teaching Staff Teaching Staff Performance Review Process Learn & Grow Courses Available Course Listings Course Creation Lifelong Learning Program Continuing Education Program Career Tools RightNow Media @ Work LinkedIn Learning Educational Assistance Tuition Remission Tuition Reimbursement Professional Wellbeing LinkedIn Learning Contacts & Resources Engage with HR Contacts askHR HRC - Human Resources Consultants ERG - Employee Resource Groups Faculty Senate and Staff Council Provost Page Giving Policies & Postings State Employment Law Postings Required Annual Notices Workplace Concerns and Disclosures Additional HR Resources About Ignite