Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Advocate for Florida State Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Advocate for Florida State Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Advocate for Florida State is an advocacy network comprised of alumni, students, and friends who serve as advocates for Florida State University. Advocate for Florida State helps state decision-makers develop greater appreciation and support for Florida State. This statewide network allows your voice to be heard during the legislative process and is vital to the University's success. FSU retains Top 20 status in U.S. News rankings, advances in several key metrics Florida State University retained its place in the Top 20 among national public universities in the latest U.S. News & World Report rankings, while improving in several key measures considered in the publication’s methodology. Read More FSU Day at the Capitol is February 9! The Florida Capitol will gleam garnet and gold as Florida State University celebrates its academic and athletic success during FSU Day at the Capitol. The event will showcase several of the university’s colleges and academic departments, which will have displays and information tables set up on the first three floors of the capitol from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. An outdoor pep rally will take place from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the plaza between the old and new capitol buildings. Also featured will be University “celebrities” – administrators, legislative alumni and more – along with performances by the FSU pep band, cheerleaders and Flying High Circus Be a part of FSU Day! Throughout FSU Day at the Capitol, you can stay in touch and be a part of the event by: Following @floridastate social media accounts for the latest #FSUDay posts and shares from the Capitol, across campus and Florida. Be sure to use the hashtag #FSUDay and follow FSU’s Facebook, Twitter and Instagram). This is also a great chance to share your FSU spirit by posting images of yourself wearing garnet and gold! Please include #FSUDay and tag @floridastate! Share content throughout the day from the Florida State University main accounts (Facebook, Twitter and Instagram). Watch and share the first #FSUDay video to be posted at 10 a.m. from the main Florida State social media accounts, highlighting FSU alumni and friends in the Legislature. Create your own content by sharing images of yourself wearing garnet and gold, then post and tag #FSUDay! Click here to upload Facebook, Twitter and Instagram images: Facebook Twitter Instagram Currently no Action Alerts Sign-up! Signing up makes it easier to advocate. Plus you'll receive email updates and alerts. Sign-up Log In When contacting your state House and Senate members, please be sure to mention one or more of FSU's Talking Points. Twitter Follow FSU President McCullough on Twitter Show Your Pride with the FSU License Plate Program 2022-2023 Budget Request Preeminence FSU's The Big Story LegisLetter Connect with us: Office of Governmental Relations 216 Westcott Tallahassee, FL 32306-1440 Telephone: 850-644-4453 or FAX: 850-644-2888 Share: Connect: Facebook © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media