Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC names chief digital officer President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide digital transformation By John Bach Email JohnEmail John 513-556-2019 May 19, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like University of Cincinnati President Neville Pinto announced today that Bharath Prabhakaran has been named UC’s new vice president and chief digital officer. Bharath Prabhakaran Prabhakaran will begin August 22. He will lead IT@UC and provide leadership and support to digital transformation initiatives across the university. Prabhakaran emerged as the top candidate following a national search and comes to UC from the University of North Texas System, where he has served as deputy chief information officer and associate vice chancellor of enterprise applications. He is recognized as a collaborative and empowering problem solver in information technology. In his role at the UNT System, he has focused on formulating IT strategies, governance and policies. He also established the vision and strategic leadership for all enterprise applications. “I’m confident that Bharath is the innovative and agile leader UC needs to guide us through our digital transformation,” said Pinto. “He will lead us in answering a key question: ‘How will rapid changes in digital technology impact higher education?’” Pinto said two UC task forces have begun this important work. One task force is studying the opportunities for digital transformation on the core academic experience of our students. The second group is focused on the larger campus experience of students. In addition, he said, UC is working on a detailed assessment of its overall digital infrastructure. In the past, the leader of IT@UC has reported to the provost. Moving forward, the chief digital officer will report directly to President Pinto and serve on the President’s Cabinet. Prabhakaran said his initial goals will involve connecting with teams all across campus and learning about the current portfolio of core IT services at UC. He looks forward to bringing the IT@UC and Business Core Services teams together with a common vision, mission and values. “I am really excited about the simple but profound transformative vision 'Next Lives Here' laid out by President Pinto and the leadership team and how technology can support digital transformation and play a key part in helping us get there,” said Prabhakaran. “In my view, technology can be a strategic partner to the business and enterprise and help accelerate progress toward enhancing the student experience and success.” Prabhakaran has over 25 years of experience in IT in both on-premise and cloud deployment models. He has worked at start-ups and large companies in the private sector including 18 years at Oracle, where he rose from a senior program manager to a senior manager to director, then senior director. Among his accomplishments, he led the transformation of Oracle Fusion Applications to the cloud. He also has significant experience working in non-profits and serving on boards. Pinto thanked the search committee led by Executive Vice President Ryan Hays, as well as those who took the time to participate during open campus sessions with faculty, staff and students. In addition, he thanked Annette Ready, associate vice president for innovation & partnerships in IT@UC, for stepping up to lead the unit throughout this transition. Impact Lives Here The University of Cincinnati is leading public urban universities into a new era of innovation and impact. Our faculty, staff and students are saving lives, changing outcomes and bending the future in our city's direction. Next Lives Here. Tags College-Conservatory of Music College of Pharmacy College of Medicine Innovation Agenda College of Arts and Sciences College of Allied Health Sciences Academic Excellence College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services UCIT Faculty Staff Blue Ash College Clermont College College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law President's Office College of Nursing Lindner College of Business Provost Next Lives Here College of Engineering and Applied Science Related Stories College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top