Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Safety Procedures Safety Procedures Print Information, procedures and policies for contractors, sub-contractors, Penn and Facilities employees at the University of Pennsylvania. Environmental Health and Radiation Safety Some of the frequently used forms are linked below. EHRS General Health and Safety Penn's occupational safety programs and policies. FRES Worker Safety Guide Safety programs, directives, forms and resources. Confined Space Procedure The purpose of this procedure is to protect workers against the hazards involved in confined spaces. This procedure establishes the controls and responsibilities for entering, working in, and exiting confined spaces. Lock Out / Tag Out (LOTO) Program The purpose of this policy is to ensure that before any employee or contractor performs any servicing or maintenance on machinery or equipment, where the unexpected energizing, start up or release of any type of energy could occur and cause injury, the machinery or equipment will be rendered safe to work on by being locked and tagged out. Public Safety Guidelines and Requirements A complete list of public safety related guidelines including Hot Work Operations and Permits. Dig Form The Dig form is the same as a PAOneCall. This process can be initiated through the State of Pennsylvania website, www.paonecall.org. You will need to inform your Facilities and Real Estate project manger when you initiate a PAOneCall. Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage