Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift National Scholars Program National Scholars Program Scholars in Cáceres, Spain on the 2019 Maymester 2019 Retreat Weekend to introduce our new 2019 cohort The sophomore cohort in South Africa, 2019 Welcome to the National Scholars Program at Clemson University Since 2000, the National Scholars Program has offered unmatched learning experiences to a select group of Clemson University undergraduate students. Their intellectual, professional and personal development have been enhanced by a dynamic, creative and engaging array of educational enrichment experiences. As inquisitive learners, National Scholars strive to understand the world around them and to share their knowledge with others. As leaders in key roles on campus, Scholars shape student and academic life at Clemson. As National Scholars, these men and women form a strong community that challenges and supports each other in their endeavors. Meet Our Scholars The Mission of the National Scholars Program In collaboration with other University offices and programs, the mission of Clemson's National Scholars Program is as follows: Recruit and select the top high school students from throughout the United States. Provide a competitive scholarship that covers all tuition, fees and other required expenses. Coordinate a rewarding summer of study and travel abroad. Create and program intellectually challenging and rewarding enrichment opportunities. Provide individual and group advising that addresses and enhances the National Scholars’ interests and skills. Prepare the National Scholars to excel in graduate school and on fellowship applications. Facebook Update Alumni Information Read Our Annual Report Events May 31 2pm Clemson Sandhill Farmers Market Location: Clemson Sandhill REC Jun 3 8am Palmetto Sport Horse Classic Location: T. Ed Garrison Livestock Arena Jun 4 8am Palmetto Sport Horse Classic Location: T. Ed Garrison Livestock Arena Jun 5 8am Palmetto Sport Horse Classic Location: T. Ed Garrison Livestock Arena Home NSP Experience Selection Process Our Scholars Alumni Support Us Contact Us Related Links Clemson University Honors College Academics at Clemson Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram