Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Policies and Procedures Menu Main Nav Policies and Procedures Back Back Close University Policies Administrative Policies Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Policies are written expressions of management philosophy and direction intended to ensure the consistent conduct of University affairs in conformity with the mission, values and legal obligations of the University. Boston College policies are of two types, as outlined in the policy entitled "Development of University Policies." A University Policy is an official directive of broad and direct application across schools and other administrative units of the University. As such, University Policies impose binding obligations on faculty, students and/or staff, as applicable. The purpose of University policies is to ensure through uniform procedures and standards, (i) compliance with applicable laws and regulations, (ii) adoption of operational efficiencies and best ethical practices, and (iii) promotion of mission-centered values and objectives. University Policies are formulated under the direction of the Executive Vice President and are approved and promulgated by the President of the University. An Administrative Policy is a statement of the standards, practices and/or procedures of an administrative unit of the University as promulgated by the Vice President or other senior officer having charge of such unit. Accordingly, Administrative Policies pertain to matters within the exclusive function of a particular administrative unit, notwithstanding possibly broad impact across the University. Examples of important Administrative Policies include the Faculty Handbook promulgated by the Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties, the Student Code of Conduct promulgated by the Office of Student Conduct, and the various policies and procedures of the Office of Human Resources. Questions and comments regarding Boston College policy should be directed to: Nora E. Field General Counsel Boston College 14 Mayflower Road Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 Telephone: 617-552-0960 Fax: 617-552-0961 Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College