Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Admissions How to Apply Ed.M. Requirements & Instructions Financial Aid Applications are now closed. Ed.L.D. Requirements & Instructions Financial Aid Applications are now closed. Ph.D. Requirements & Instructions Financial Aid Applications are now closed. Widen Layout: wide Certificate for Advanced Study in Counseling (C.A.S.) Human Development and Education (School Counseling strand) students and Prevention Science and Practice graduates who wish to continue their studies after the master’s degree may apply to pursue initial licensure. Applications are closed until fall 2022. Non-Degree Study (SSE) Select individuals interested in taking up to two residential (on-campus) courses without entering a program during the academic year may apply to study as a non-degree student. Applications are closed until summer 2022. Widen Layout: wide Non-Discrimination Policy Harvard University's policy is to make decisions concerning applicants, students, faculty, and staff on the basis of the individual's qualifications to contribute to Harvard's educational objectives and institutional needs. The principle of not discriminating against individuals based on characteristics such as race, color, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, political beliefs, veteran status, or disability unrelated to job or course of study requirements is consistent with the purposes of a university and with the law. Civic Engagement Statement The mission of the Harvard Graduate School of Education is to prepare leaders in education and to generate knowledge to improve student opportunity, achievement, and success. Civic leadership and learning are important components of this mission. Those who engage responsibly in exercising their rights and freedoms will not have their chances of admission compromised, nor will admissions offers be revoked, regardless of whether they face disciplinary action by their schools or districts as a result of peaceful protest. Application Review Process While our admissions process is highly selective, it is also personalized, comprehensive, and fair. There is no single formula or criterion for admission. HGSE looks for students with a passion for education, diverse life and work experiences, and a deep commitment to making an impact in the world — as educators, researchers, policymakers, and service-minded leaders of character and integrity. If you have any additional questions or concerns about the application process, please call 617.495.3414 or email the Admissions Office. Widen Layout: wide In this section Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice