Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Our cadets are trained in the pursuit of excellence, constantly striving to do better and be better. It’s a principle they live by, from their first day on campus to their first day on the job. Due to the importance of our mission and responsibility to our nation, cadets must follow higher standards than those expected in civilian life. The Cadet Standards and Duties Instruction defines the responsibilities and expectations of a cadet at the United States Air Force Academy. To learn more, please reference the most common questions below. For more frequently asked questions, visit Parents FAQs, Graduates FAQs and Prep School FAQs. DAILY LIFE What’s a typical weekday for a cadet? During the academic year, which begins in early August and ends in mid-May, cadets wake up at 5:15 a.m., get dressed in their uniform of the day and attend a buffet style breakfast in Mitchell Hall. They then proceed to academic classes and physical education. Cadets maintain two alternating class schedules known as M-Days and T-Days. Depending on their schedule, cadets generally start classes by 7:30 a.m. and end by 4 p.m. After classes, cadets often take part in club activities, play sports and work out. Following a buffet style dinner in Mitchell Hall, cadets spend their evenings completing homework and studying, or hanging out with friends. Cadets are required to be in their dorm room by 11 p.m. What’s a typical weekend for a cadet? Cadets spend two weekends per month performing military training. Training takes place from Friday afternoon through Saturday afternoon. Training activities include room and uniform inspections, parades, marching practice, military briefings, guest speakers and professional military education and training. Sundays are generally reserved for personal time. On non-training weekends, cadets are permitted to leave the base if authorized with many choosing to visit food and entertainment attractions in the local area or head up to the mountains for skiing and snowboarding. Cadets are required to be back in their squadrons by 7:15 p.m. on Sunday. What types of uniforms do cadets wear? Cadets wear a large variety of military uniforms. Primarily, cadets wear the Operational Camouflage Pattern (OCP) uniform and some form of blues. Service dress is commonly worn for more formal events and mess dress is worn for the most formal events. Cadets also wear physical conditioning gear for physical education classes and tests. Parade dress and flight suits are also worn. Are cadets allowed to wear civilian clothes? Fourth-class (freshman) cadets may not wear civilian clothes on base or in the local area. They may wear civilian clothes during leave periods, such as Thanksgiving and winter break and when authorized by the Commandant of Cadets. This authorization usually occurs during the spring semester. Third-class (sophomore), Second-class (junior) and First-class (senior) cadets may wear civilian clothes on base after their duty day has ended and in the local area, as well as during leave. Cadets who are representing the Academy for special programs, such as speaking appearances in their hometowns, must wear their uniforms. What support services are available to cadets struggling? To help cadets navigate the challenging expectations and demands, we offer a comprehensive set of programs to enhance their physical, spiritual, social, and mental walks of life. We strive to provide reliable access to safe, quality care. To learn more, click here. In addition, each squadron has two cadet PEERs (Personal Ethics & Education Representative) to help address concerns and offer professional guidance on stress, relationships, eating disorders, equal opportunity and treatment. DORM ROOMS How are dorm rooms and roommates assigned? Each cadet is assigned to one of 40 squadrons housed in Vandenberg and Sijan Hall dormitories. Male and female cadets have separate rooms, and female cadets have separate bathroom facilities within assigned squadron areas. Roommates are always of the same sex and usually of the same class. Fourth-class (freshman) cadets are assigned 1 to 2 roommates during Basic Cadet Training (BCT). Third-class (sophomore), Second-class (junior) and First-class (senior) cadets have the opportunity to select their roommate within a squadron. If a cadet has significant problems, they may request and will most likely be granted a change of roommate, if necessary. Siblings may not be roommates and are always assigned to different squadrons. What items are allowed in cadet dorm rooms? Upon arriving, cadets are issued laptops, uniforms, bedding and linens. Cadets may have monitors, printers, DVDs, books, magazines and desk lamps. Cadets may display as many pictures as they want on their personal corkboard. Additionally, fourth-class (freshman) cadets are allowed 2 personal items on display, third-class (sophomore) are allowed 6 items, second-class (junior) are allowed 9 items, and first-class (senior) are allowed 15 items. Throughout the academic year, the Cadet Wing Commander will authorize additional items such as radios and stereo equipment during fourth-class (freshman) year; mattress toppers, coffee pots, plants and headphones during third-class (sophomore) year; refrigerators during second-class (junior) year; and televisions during first-class (senior) year What items are prohibited in the dorm rooms? Cadets may not install air conditioning units; individual cable, satellite, or hardwired commercial internet connections. Additionally, cadets may not consume or store alcohol in the dormitories. Are cadets allowed to decorate for the holidays? Although cadets collectively decorate the hallways of Vandenberg and Sijan Hall dormitories, they also are permitted to display a single artificial tree with decorative lights (maximum of 3 feet tall) and a single electrically lit Menorah. Holiday decorations are permitted from the end of Thanksgiving break to the beginning of Winter break. All other decorations require approval of the Air Officer Commanding (AOC). Can cadets live off base? No, cadets are not allowed to own, lease or maintain any off-base living quarters. This includes, but is not limited to, paying for the upkeep of a room, utilities or rent of an off-base property or paying family and friends for the upkeep of a room, utilities or rent of an off-base property. Additionally, cadets are not permitted to stay in off-base quarters when the documented owner/lessee has been absent for more than 72 hours. To do so requires written approval in advance from the Air Officer Commanding (AOC). How often do cadets change squadrons? Prior to the start of second-class (junior) year, cadets are reassigned to a new squadron in what’s commonly referred to as an “upper-class shuffle.” This movement is meant to mirror what it’s like for Airmen and Guardians to change duty stations periodically throughout their career. DINING Where do cadets eat? During the academic year, cadets eat most of their meals in Mitchell Hall. Cadets are required to attend breakfast and noon meals. For lunch at noon, the entire cadet wing assembles to eat family-style; and for breakfast, dinner and weekend meals, cadets are treated to an all-you-can-eat buffet. Cadets also have access to several on-base restaurants located in Fairchild Hall and Arnold Hall. Fourth-class (freshman) cadets are only authorized to use Arnold Hall on weekdays after Retreat, on non-training weekends and on training weekends after training is concluded. Does the dining facility accommodate special diets? Each day, three well-balanced meals are provided to cadets by the cadet dining facility, Mitchell Hall. Mitchell Hall offers vegetarian menus to cadets for religious faith requirements or for individual convictions during Basic Cadet Training (BCT). Nutrition screening and counseling is provided to basic cadets requiring personal attention. During the academic year, Mitchell Hall offers light and vegetarian menus, and accommodates the Muslim faith during Ramadan and Jewish faith during Passover. If a cadet anticipates a faith-based dietary concern, call the Cadet Chaplains Office at 719-333-2636. For further dietary questions or concerns, call Mitchell Hall at 719-333-3663. Are cadets allowed to drink alcohol? Only cadets of legal drinking age (21+ years old) may consume alcohol on or off base. Cadets must demonstrate good judgement and ensure they’re sober (not under the influence of alcohol or its after-effects) prior to reporting for duty. Cadets may not consume or store alcohol in the dormitories or their privately owned vehicles. Cadets who choose to drink may only do so in uniform when attending a sanctioned event, such as a formal squadron dining-in or when participating in a sit-down meal in the dining area (versus the bar) of a restaurant. During functions where alcohol has been approved, cadet leadership will ensure proper risk management is followed to ensure the safety of those participating and that no illegal activity occurs, such as underage drinking or drunk driving. Cadets serving alcohol are responsible for age verification and have a duty to refuse to serve additional alcohol to individuals who reach or appear to be reaching the point of intoxication. TRAVEL AND LEAVE Can cadets leave the base? Yes, cadets may leave the base with the use of a pass when not on duty, but there are rules and regulations that dictate when, where and how often. The privilege to leave increases with each academic year. Cadets may also visit their assigned sponsor families. What is a Pass? A pass is a privilege extended to cadets that is used to sign out and leave base when authorized. Cadets are given a specific number of passes each semester based on their class year and can be awarded additional passes through exemplary individual and collective performance. Types of passes include Basic Pass, Weekday Sign Out Pass, Weekday Overnight Sign Out Pass, Weekend Overnight Sign Out Pass, Performance Pass and Discretionary Passes. How many Passes do cadets receive? Fourth-class (freshman) cadets are allotted 2 Weekday Sign Out Passes beginning after Parent’s Weekend and 2 Weekend Overnight Sign Out Passes beginning spring semester per month. Third-class (sophomore) cadets are allotted 1 Weekday Sign Out Pass per week, 2 Weekend Overnight Sign Out Passes per month, and passes are no longer required beginning spring semester. Second-class (junior) cadets do not require passes. First-class (senior) cadets also do not require passes and are allotted 1 Weekday Overnight Pass per week. What is a Discretionary Pass? A discretionary pass is approved for special occasions and allowances. These passes can only be used during their allotted time and are typically coordinated via Staff Summary Sheet (SSS). Approval of a Staff Summary Sheet to travel does not imply a discretionary pass has been granted and the pass must be specifically approved. Types of Discretionary Passes include Sponsor, Spiritual Accommodation and Volunteer/Community Service. These passes are not charged to a cadet’s overall account. What is a Merit Pass? A merit pass may be granted to recognize Outstanding Squadron Standings (OSS) and individual merit list achievement. These passes are not charged to a cadet’s overall account and must be used in the semester they were issued. How far can cadets travel? Cadets must remain in the boundary limits unless authorized to exceed for extended limits, passes, temporary duty locations (TDY) or breaks. Specifically, they must stay within County Line Road in Monument (North), Security/Widefield (South), Manitou Springs (West), and Marksheffel Road (East). What leave periods do cadets have? Cadets have a leave period over Thanksgiving, two and a half weeks for winter break and a one week spring break during the spring semester. Cadets often take advantage of long weekends to go home as well. During the summer, cadets take required leadership programs held at the Academy or other installations. Either before or after a leadership program, most cadets in the upper three classes have approximately three weeks of leave. There are exceptions for cadets who volunteer or who are required to attend summer school. In these cases, leave periods must be forfeited. ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.