Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid Student Loans Student loans are commonly used financing options that are available to both residential and part-time online applicants, and require a minimum enrollment of 6 credits per term in a degree-granting program. Please note these pages provide information about both federal and supplemental (private) student loans, credit, and debt counseling. Some links will take you to sites outside of the HGSE Financial Aid Office. The HGSE Financial Aid Office is not responsible for the content of any external sites. The Harvard Graduate School of Education, like all of Harvard University, participates in the Federal Direct Loan Program offered through the U.S. Department of Education. The only lender we list is Direct Lending, however you are free to research and borrow from any lender. When considering a supplemental loan, we remind students there are many options in addition to those listed in these materials. We encourage students to consider all of their borrowing options to ensure the best possible choice for their individual needs. Remember, only Federal Direct Unsubsidized and Graduate PLUS Loans are administered by the HGSE Financial Aid Office; supplemental loans are available from numerous lenders and you are welcome to explore those that interest you. Harvard University and the Harvard Graduate School of Education have no financial interest in which supplemental loan you choose to borrow. Federal Loan Requirements Loan Entrance Counseling & Promissory Notes New borrowers of Federal Direct Loans (Unsubsidized and Grad PLUS) must complete online Entrance Counseling in addition to electronic loan promissory notes for each loan. These requirements can be completed by visiting the HGSE Student Aid Portal and following the links listed on the "Your Documents & Requirements" tab. Incoming students will be notified in summer when it is time to complete loan requirements or if anything is missing. Loan Exit Counseling Graduating students who borrowed a Federal Loan (Perkins, Direct or Grad PLUS) while enrolled at HGSE must complete Loan Exit Counseling. This can be completed online by starting at the Loan Exit Counseling page. Federal Direct Loans Federal Direct Loan Program and Related Information Federal Student Aid (FSA) Loan Repayment Simulator - learn about your repayment options using this FSA resource. Federal Student Aid Loan Information Federal Direct Graduate PLUS & Supplemental Loans Supplemental loans, like the Direct Graduate PLUS Loan, can be borrowed in addition to your Federal Loans to help meet the cost of education. Please note: students pursuing a supplemental loan should apply for the amount they wish to borrow for the entire academic year. Supplemental Education Loan Programs Loan, Credit and Debt Management Information HGSE Loan Exit Counseling and Loan Information - This page is particularly useful for students who have graduated or are nearing graduation. Loan contact information, repayment information, and more is found on this page. Federal Student Aid - You can find information on all Federal Aid programs and loan repayment resources here. MyMoney.gov - The U.S. Government's site dedicated to teaching financial literacy Consumer Financial Protection Bureau - This site presents information and assistance on a range of consumer financial products, including student loans. Student Loan Borrower Assistance - This is a comprehensive and very useful website that covers almost all the basics regarding past, present, or future student loans of all varieties. Understanding Your Credit Debt Management Tools In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Financial Aid Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice