Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate The Academic Advising Center Pre-Health Program Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Pre-Health Program The Pre-Health Program in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences is an open program for all students in every major program of study at Boston College. There is no minimum GPA requirement. The Pre-Health Program provides support and comprehensive advising to undergraduates and alumni of Boston College interested in medical, dental, or veterinary careers, as well as other areas of health profession study. Students benefit from majoring in any of the varied academic disciplines offered at BC. The Pre-Health Program team assists with all aspects of planning when considering a career in the health professions, including selection of a major, course sequencing/selection, resources for gaining health-related experience, evaluating extra-curricular activities, preparing for standardized exams (MCAT, DAT, GRE) and all aspects of the pre- and post-application process for health professions graduate schools. Stokes Hall S132 617-552-4663 Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. premed@bc.edu resources for current students and alumni Prospective Students An array of advising support is available to Boston College Pre-Health students including: individual portfolio review by the Director and Assistant Directors, group meetings each semester for freshmen, sophomores, and applicants (juniors/seniors), and mentoring by Pre-Health Committee Members. If you have been accepted to Boston College and are interested in gaining an overview of the Pre-Health Program, please view the following presentation. accepted students presentation Meet the Pre-Health Program Staff Rafael E. Luna, Ph.D. Associate Dean Director lunar@bc.edu Danielle Taghian, Ph.D. Chair, Pre-Health Faculty Committee Associate Professor of the Practice danielle.taghian@bc.edu Erin Curley Assistant Director e.oleary@bc.edu Maureen Simmons Assistant Director bourgeom@bc.edu Kathy Ortiz Administrative & Records Assistant kathy.ortiz@bc.edu FAQs Print Open All Close All Where can I find up-to-date, health professions COVID-19 related information? The NAAHP has put together a site for Health Professions Associations to share updates. The AAMC has also made available the MSAR Reports due to the current situation, reports are now available to help quickly disseminate information as it is updated by AAMC-member medical schools. Reports will be updated and republished regularly as medical schools update their profiles to reflect evolving policies, dates, or procedures. Please review MSAR profiles and individual medical schools’ websites for the most current information. NAAHP Website MSAR Reports MSAR Profiles I have additional questions. If you have questions or concerns, email premed@bc.edu. If you want to make a phone appointment with an advisor, you can contact 617-552-4663 or premed@bc.edu to schedule an appointment. Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College