Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Our Staff Supporting a Common Mission Every staff member plays an important role in Princeton’s mission of excellence in research and teaching. Limitless opportunities exist to make an impact bigger than oneself. Staff Profiles Rochelle Calhoun . Rochelle Calhoun, vice president for campus life, helps create a supportive and engaging environment for students through her oversight of Athletics, Campus Recreation, Career Services, the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students, the Office of Religious Life, the Pace Center for Civic Engagement and University Health Services. Learn More Mohamed Ela . Mohamed Ela, director of procurement services, Office of Finance and Treasury, ensures that students, faculty and staff have an efficient and effective means of buying and paying for goods and services, reimbursing guests, and supporting the University's travel needs. Learn More Carol Oberto . Carol Oberto, manager for the Stanley J. Seeger '52 Center for Hellenic Studies, oversees strategic direction for operations. She recently traveled to Greece for the opening of the Princeton University Athens Center for Research and Hellenic Studies — one of her "most rewarding experiences." Learn More Penna Rose . Penna Rose, director of Chapel Music, for 25 years has been leading Chapel Music and the Chapel Choir while providing a nurturing environment for students. Learn more Al Chiarello . Al Chiarello is head janitor at Building Services. "One of the reasons I took this job was for the tuition reimbursement program. This job is very important to me. There's always the possibility, if my kids are smart enough, and I think they may be, that maybe Princeton could be an avenue for them." Learn More Julia Davila . Julia Davila is security supervisor in the Department of Public Safety, and has worked at the Princeton University Art Museum for more than 25 years. "I feel like I've had an art history class four times over." Learn More Facts & Figures 7,000 Benefits-eligible employees 27 Faculty and staff Nobel Prize winners Show Me More Facts and Figures Staff in the News Award Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day . Members of Princeton University’s Class of 2022 celebrated the end of their undergraduate careers with a Class Day ceremony honoring their achievements and leadership on Monday, May 23. Read more New partnerships, programs and positions are part of Princeton’s ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism . Princeton is providing an interim update on the University-wide and department-level initiatives launched during the 2021-22 year as part of the University's ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism. A full annual report will be released in the fall. Read more Romy Riddick named Princeton vice president for human resources . Riddick will lead the Office of Human Resources (HR), which oversees the recruitment, retention and professional development of a highly skilled, diverse and vibrant group of staff members. She has been an integral member of Princeton's HR team since 2012. Read more Nadeem Siddiqui named Princeton’s assistant vice president of campus dining . Nadeem Siddiqui, a consultant for dining and auxiliary departments at various colleges and universities around the country, has been named Princeton’s assistant vice president of campus dining. He starts at Princeton on April 11. Read more Staff Community Explore the wide range of opportunities available to Princeton employees at work and beyond. Office of Human Resources Office of the Dean of the Faculty Thrive at Princeton Employee Resource Groups Princeton Postdoctoral Council Work at Princeton Every employee has the opportunity to make an impact supporting our mission of teaching and research. Faculty and Academic Positions Staff Positions Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice