Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Year in Review Graduate Program Initiatives People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Land Acknowledgment The Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative at Brown (NAISI) has created the following land acknowledgment statement. For information about the Initiative's programs, please visit their website. In our efforts to create a meaningful acknowledgment of the Indigenous peoples and their connections to the land that Brown University occupies, NAISI and others at the University are following a protocol to carefully consider what this acknowledgment should be according to the Indigenous peoples connected to this place. We will work in consultation with local tribes to determine what statement, if any, and actions can best acknowledge tribal connections to this land that was occupied long before the University or State of Rhode Island existed. Addressing this important effort in full depth and according respect to all who are invested in this work will take time, deliberation, and care; it may take a number of months, and perhaps years, to complete. We are committed to engaging in a complete dialogue with local tribal peoples to ensure that the process is comprehensive. Creating a meaningful land acknowledgment requires following Indigenous protocols to accomplish more than a statement regarding which tribe or tribes are connected to the lands occupied by Brown University today. Our actions and statements will be guided by dialogue with local tribes and will seek to address our history and interactions with Indigenous peoples of the area. Each University needs to examine and understand the different and complicated legacies we have and consider how to address these, following input and guidance of local tribes. Including a land acknowledgment at the beginning of courses or campus events has emerged as a practice outside of Indigenous spaces only recently. Before doing this, ask yourself: Why do you wish to have a land acknowledgment? Why is this important to you? What is the purpose of a land acknowledgment? In what ways can you move beyond an acknowledgment to meaningful action? About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Year in Review John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top