Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ News Dr. Shen Successfully Defends Wed May 11 Congratulations to Yifan Shen for successfully defending his dissertation, “Bringing Oppenheimer Back: The Continuing Importance of Oppenheimer’s Family Sociology for Understanding the Shifting Economic Organization of American Families.” Read More Dr. Falzon Successfully Defends Wed May 4 Congratulations to Danielle Falzon for successfully defending her dissertation entitled, “The Business of Adaptation: Reproducing Inequality in the Face of Climate Crisis.” Read More Professor Michael Kennedy’s IAPA course shines a light on Ukraine Wed May 4 Michael D. Kennedy, professor of sociology and international and public affairs at Brown University, is an expert on East European social movements and system change. A candidate to be vice president of the American Sociological Association, Kennedy teaches a provocative sociology course, Power, Knowledge and Justice in Global Social Change. Read More Dr. Collier Successfully Defends Fri Apr 29 Congratulations to Meg Collier for successfully defending her dissertation entitled, “Inequality, Brokerage, and the Mobilization of Social Capital in Elementary Schools”. Read More 2022 Alden Speare Jr. Award Wed Apr 27 Congratulations to Sam Brady for being awarded the Alden Speare, Jr. Award, which recognizes superior achievement in the Master of Arts thesis within the Department of Sociology. Read More 2022 Graduate Student Excellence in Teaching Award Mon Apr 25 Congratulations to Yasemin Bavbek for being awarded the Graduate Student Excellence in Teaching Award, an award that recognizes sustained and exceptional contribution to teaching and learning in the Department of Sociology. Read More Dr. Pheiffer Successfully Defends Wed Apr 20 Congratulations to Chantel Pheiffer for successfully defending her dissertation entitled, “Internal Migration, Urban Living, and the Health Penalty among Women in South Africa”. Read More Dr. Agbai Successfully Defends Mon Apr 18 Congratulations to Chinyere Agbai for successfully defending her dissertation entitled, “Wealth Begins at Home: A Historical Analysis of the Role of the 1944 GI Bill in Linking, Race, Place, Wealth, and Health in America.” Read More Dr. Bernier Successfully Defends Thu Apr 14 Congratulations to Quinn Bernier for successfully defending his dissertation, “Risky Business: Agricultural Transformation in Tanzania.” Read More Dr. prabh kehal Successfully Defends Thu Apr 7 Congratulations to prabh kehal for successfully defending their dissertation entitled, “Racializing Meritocracy: Ideas of Excellence and Exclusion in Faculty Diversity." Read More Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 next › last » Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top