Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home News Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann Collaborate on $3M NSF NRT Grant on Ethical AI Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann Collaborate on $3M NSF NRT Grant on Ethical AI The School of Information at the University of Texas at Austin faculty members Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann are collaborating with UT faculty at the School of Architecture, Cockrell School of Engineering, and Department of Computer Science on a $3M NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) grant. For the Fall 2022 admissions cycle, interested students who apply for admission to the iSchool doctoral program will be considered for this doctoral fellowship. Students who have already applied will also be considered if their interest is in the area of ethical AI. Apply Now! The deadline to apply to the iSchool's PhD program is December 1st. PhD Admissions Fellows will complete coursework in Ethical AI, including courses in Human-AI Interaction and Ethics of AI at the iSchool as well as courses offered in Computer Science, Aerospace Engineering, and Community and Regional Planning. Fellows will also participate in a seminar on Ethical AI, have opportunities for professional development, participate in professionally relevant community service activities, and be eligible for internships. The NSF Fellowships are restricted to US citizens and permanent residents, but all prospective applicants are invited to apply for admission to the iSchool doctoral program and may be eligible for other funding. Fellows will also participate in research projects funded by Good Systems, a UT Grand Challenge, such as the 6-year Core Research Projects in Racial Equity in AI co-led by Lee (in collaboration with faculty from Communication and Engineering) and in Smart Hand Tools co-led by Fleischmann (in collaboration with faculty from Public Affairs and Engineering). Learn more about the NSF Ethical AI Project. Nov. 16, 2021 Research AI & Machine Learning Share this Email Twitter LinkedIn UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022