Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs Home » Centers & Initiatives » Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) » TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs Menu TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship TI:GER Full time and Evening MBA FAQs Can I take other immersive tracks while I'm in the TI:GER® Program? Yes. Is TI:GER® a technology commercialization program? TI:GER -- Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results -- is a technology innovation program. Although students do learn technology commercialization, technology innovation is much broader and much deeper, giving MBA students many more career options. I heard that TI:GER® courses are extra -- that I take them in addition to the MBA curriculum. Is that true? No. All TI:GER courses are electives, like all other electives, that count toward completion of your MBA degree. Do TI:GER® courses require more work than other courses? No. All TI:GER courses and labs, like all other MBA courses, award credit hours, and each credit hour is a standard unit. Does TI:GER offer a course during the summer term? No. TI:GER offers courses only during the spring term and the fall term. Are there networking opportunities? Yes. Through the TI:GER program you can meet with investors, entrepreneurs, lawyers, corporate innovation executives, and others in the local and global innovation community. Can Executive MBA students join the TI:GER program? No. How do I apply to the TI:GER® Program? Complete the application here. Apply here What is the application deadline? And when do I get a decision? The deadline for TI:GER application submission is: October 1st You receive a decision by email before November 1st. How does the TI:GER® program select applicants? There is no formula for acceptance. We review the entire application, including work experience, academic achievement, and your written responses in the application. Am I expected to start a company? No. This is an educational program; however, some students have launched successful startups through the TI:GER program. What are the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) and CDL-Atlanta? TI:GER is the educational program for the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL-Atlanta), which is a global milestone-based mentoring program for massively-scalable science-based startups. Read more here. What is the connection between TI:GER and CDL-Atlanta? The TI:GER program is the educational program for CDL-Atlanta. Read more here. I’d like to work with a CDL venture. Is the TI:GER program the only entry point for CDL-Atlanta? Yes. TI:GER PhD FAQs Are there prerequisite or corequisite courses for PhD students? Yes. After admission to the TI:GER program and before the start of the first course, PhD students must take and pass online, asynchronous, preparatory educational modules on a selection of important business fundamentals, such as marketing and finance. Read more here. Does TI:GER offer a course during the summer term? No. TI:GER offers courses only during the spring term and the fall term. Is TI:GER a technology commercialization program? TI:GER-- Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results -- is a technology innovation program. Although students do learn technology commercialization, technology innovation is much broader and much deeper, giving PhD students many more career options. I just started my PhD program. May I apply to the TI:GER program. Yes. PhD students can join TI:GER in their first year at Georgia Tech. Must I bring my dissertation project with me into the TI:GER program? No. We welcome PhD candidates without their dissertation projects. You can enter the TI:GER program (a) without a project, (b) with your PhD dissertation project, or (c) with a project from your lab. How do I apply to the TI:GER Program? Complete the application here. Apply here What is the application deadline? And when do I get a decision? The deadline for TI:GER application submission is: October 1st You receive a decision by email before November 1st. How does the TI:GER program select applicants? There is no formula for acceptance. We review the entire application, including academic achievement and your written responses in the application. After I have been admitted to the TI:GER program, may I defer my admission? No, but you can apply again to the TI:GER program for the next year. Is financial support provided by the TI:GER program? No, there is no financial support provided by the TI:GER program or the Scheller College of Business. How will this benefit my research? The TI:GER program provides a unique opportunity to work with a transdisciplinary team to gain practical insights to the commercial potential of your research. This work can help direct your research toward more useful applications, assist you in more relevant grant proposals, and provide unique experience and networks for your professional career. How many terms is the program? A TI:GER cohort begins in the spring term and continues through the following spring term. Read more here. Am I expected to start a company? No. This is an educational program; however, some students have launched successful startups through the TI:GER program. Are there networking opportunities? Yes, through the TI:GER program you can meet with investors, entrepreneurs, lawyers, corporate innovation executives, and others in the local and global innovation community. What are the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) and CDL-Atlanta? TI:GER is the educational program for the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL-Atlanta), which is a global milestone-based mentoring program for massively-scalable science-based startups. Read more here. What is the connection between TI:GER and CDL-Atlanta? The TI:GER program is the educational program for CDL-Atlanta. Read more here. I’d like to work with a CDL venture. Is the TI:GER program the only entry point for CDL-Atlanta? Yes. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures