Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Parking and Transportation Services Directory Permit/Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Blue Line Information Track the Blue Line & Download the App! Blue Line FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation Form Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Take Action TigerPark The Blue Line Forms Contact Us Home Parking & Transportation Services The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle takes you where you need to go. Important Notice Masks are required to board and must remain on completely. Buses will be regularly sanitized. The Target Route resumes on Thursday, Sep. 9, 2021 (1 Trip, 2pm Pick up – 4pm Return) The Kroger Route resumes on Friday, Sep 10, 2021 (2-4:45pm, running continuously). Read more about COVID-19 safety on the Blue Line here. NOTE: Due to the Homecoming Parade on campus on November 5, both the Main and Park Routes will end at 3pm that day only, and there will be no Kroger Route that day only. Hours of Operation Main Campus Blue Route: Monday – Thursday 7am – 5pm Park Avenue Campus Gray Route: Monday – Thursday 7am – 5pm Evening Route: Monday – Thursday 5pm – 11pm Afternoon Route: Friday 2pm – 5pm Main Campus Friday Route: Friday 7am – 2pm Park Avenue Campus Friday Route: Friday 7am – 2pm Target Route: Thursday 1 trip with 2pm pickup & 4pm return Kroger Route: Friday runs continuously 2pm – 4:45pm Blue Line Tracking Download the Blue Line app! Mobile App Tutorial [PDF] Video Tutorial: Routes Blue Route (Main Campus) Has 11 stops on the Main Campus From 7am-5pm M-Th there is one bus on the route Friday 7am-2pm there is one bus on the route Anyone can ride the bus for free, after 5pm riders must show current UofM ID Gray Route (Park Avenue Campus) Has 5 stops on the Main Campus and 5 on the Park Avenue Campus From 7am-5pm M-Th there is one bus on the route Friday 7am-2pm there is one bus on the route Anyone can ride the bus for free, after 5pm riders must show current UofM ID Evening Route (Covers both Blue & Gray Routes) From 5pm-11pm M-Th there is one bus on this route Friday 2pm-5pm there is one bus on this route Anyone can ride the bus for free, after 5pm riders must show current UofM ID Purple Kroger Poplar Plaza Route (Fall/Spring only) One bus dedicated to this route; runs continuously from the 3 stops located near Residence Halls. Route begins at the Central Parking Lot Carpenter Complex at 2pm. Next Stop is Centennial Place, and then to Rawls Hall stop (includes Rawls, Smith, LLC.) LAST BUS leaves Poplar Plaza at 4:45pm; it is your responsibility to make this bus. If you miss this bus you must provide your own means of transportation back to campus. Red Target Colonial Route (Fall/Spring only) One bus dedicated to this route; runs continuously from the 3 stops located near Residence Halls. Route begins at the Central Parking Lot Carpenter Complex at 2pm. Next Stop is Centennial Place, and then to Rawls Hall stop (includes Rawls, Smith, LLC.) LAST BUS leaves Target at 4:45pm; it is your responsibility to make this bus. If you miss this bus you must provide your own means of transportation back to campus. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.