About Home Events Giving REU Nevis in the News Contact us Basics What we do Students and visitors What is physics? Physics for you Research Overview ATLAS MicroBooNE VERITAS Heavy ion Astrophysics RARAF Info Phone Book Directions Events Meeting rooms Services Webmail Wiki Viewcal (need login) Room reservations DocDB A/V (for tech setup) Directions to Nevis Laboratories By car From Manhattan From La Guardia, Kennedy, and Newark airports From New York State, Long Island, New Jersey, or New England By train (Science-on-Hudson at Ardsley-on-Hudson) Here's a map, courtesy of Google Maps. Localized directions via the major mapping services courtesy of what3words: The coordinates for the entrance to the Nevis Science Center (for the Science-on-Hudson talks are ///gravy.season.herb The entrance to the Research Building (the particle-physics research groups) is at ///budget.ruins.asset The Cyclotron Building entrance (for RARAF and the CAL groups) is at ///doll.sculpture.ramp Nevis Laboratories 136 South Broadway P. O. Box 137 Irvington, NY 10533 1-914-591-8100 How to get here by car Warnings if you're using GPS Please note that GPS takes you to the northern entrance which is not what you want. The main entrance has a small white sign for Columbia University Nevis Laboratories. It is immediately adjacent to Ardsley Avenue West. From the South or from the East From Manhattan If you're coming from Columbia University, go north to 125th Street, turn left (west), and follow signs to the Henry Hudson Parkway going north. From anywhere else in Manhattan, get on the West Side Highway (if you're south of 57th Street) or take Riverside Drive to the first available entrance to the Henry Hudson (if you're north of 57th Street) and go north. No matter how you get there, stay on the Henry Hudson - do not cross the George Washington Bridge. A few miles north of the GW Bridge, you'll come to the Henry Hudson Bridge. Cross that bridge and follow the signs to the Saw Mill River Parkway going north. Once you're on the Saw Mill, follow the directions below. From La Guardia Airport Take the Grand Central Parkway west to the Triboro Bridge (about 2 or 3 miles, you will see Manhattan on your left side). Immediately after the Triboro Bridge, take the Major Deegan Expressway (87) and stay on it for about 7 or 8 miles, until you see a turn off for the Moshulu Parkway. Take this exit, which leads on to the Saw Mill River Parkway (northbound). Follow the directions below. From Kennedy Airport Take the Van Wyck Expressway 678 north about eight miles and follow the signs to the Whitestone Bridge. Cross the bridge and get on the Hutchinson River Parkway going north. After about eight miles get off at the entrance to the Cross County Parkway. Drive straight through to the other side of Westchester, then take the Saw Mill River Parkway north. Follow the directions below. From Long Island Take any major Long Island highway westbound to the Cross Island Parkway (or the Belt Parkway). Take the Belt Parkway north/east, following the signs to 678 north and the Whitestone Bridge. Cross the bridge and get on the Hutchinson River Parkway going north. Get off at the entrance to the Cross County Parkway and drive west to the other side of Westchester, then take the Saw Mill River Parkway north. Follow the directions below. Once you're on the Saw Mill River Parkway going north... Get off at exit 17, Ardsley/Ashford. At the end of the exit ramp, turn left onto Ashford Avenue. Drive for about a mile until you come to the intersection with Broadway (Route 9), then turn right (onto Broadway, going north). Go through one traffic light, then look carefully on the left-hand side. After about half a mile you'll see a small white sign with blue lettering that reads "Columbia University Nevis Labs." Be careful not to turn into Ardsley Ave, the road immediately before the Nevis driveway. Turn left into the driveway marked by the sign and drive to the Nevis parking lot. The particle-physics research building will be in front of you. The science center (formerly a carriage house) will be on the left. From the North or from the West From New York State Get to the New York State Thruway going south/east. Cross the Tappan Zee Bridge. Get off at Exit 9, which is immediately on the right after the bridge. Turn left at the end of the exit ramp onto Route 9 south. Follow the directions below. From Newark Airport Follow the signs to 78 west and take the local lanes. After roughly four miles take the exit for the Garden State Parkway north. Drive north about 30 miles to end of the GSP. You want to get on the New York State Thruway east - get in the left-hand lane, but take the right-hand fork. Once you're on the NYS Thruway for about six miles, you will cross the Tappan Zee Bridge. Get off at Exit 9, which is on the right immediately after the bridge toll. Turn left at the end of the exit ramp onto Route 9 south. Follow the directions below. From New Jersey Your best best is to get on the Garden State Parkway and follow the directions in the previous paragraph. If you're in the northwestern part of New Jersey, you can take 80 east to 287 north to the New York State Thruway east. From New England Take 95 south to 287 west. After you cross Westchester, 287 will merge with 87 and become the NYS Thruway. Get off at Exit 9 (the last exit before the Tappan Zee Bridge). Turn left at the exit ramp onto Route 119. Turn left at the next traffic light onto Route 9 south (Broadway). Follow the directions below. Once you're on Route 9 going south... Go through eight traffic lights (about three miles). The first will be as you pass Montefiore, the last will be at Clinton Avenue. Be careful as you pass through Irvington, as the right lane turns into a right-turn-only lane. Look carefully on the right. The second driveway on the right will have a small white sign "Columbia University Nevis Labs". Be careful not to turn into Ardsley Ave, the road immediately past the Nevis driveway. Turn right into that driveway and drive to the Nevis parking lot. The particle-physics research building will be in front of you. The Science Center (formerly a carriage house) will be on the left. How to get here by train Note: The train schedule for the Metro-North Hudson line is available on-line. Select trains leaving from either Grand Central or Marble Hill, and arriving at Ardsley. From Columbia University Take the 1 train north to 225th street. As you walk down the stairs from the elevated platform, note the location of the Metro-North Marble Hill train station about one block to the west. The northbound train stops there hourly about 40 minutes after the hour during non-rush hours. Take the train north to the Ardsley-on-Hudson station and follow the directions below. From elsewhere in Manhattan Go to Grand Central Station (here's a subway map). Take the Metro-North Hudson Line train northbound. During non-rush hours, this train leaves Grand Central hourly at 20 minutes after the hour. Get off at the Ardsley-on-Hudson station and follow the directions below. Once you're at Ardsley-on-Hudson... Take the left-hand road uphill (Ardsley Avenue West). Take the first asphalt driveway on the left to enter the Nevis estate. You'll see the cyclotron building on the right as you continue, which once held the most powerful proton accelerator in the world. Follow the S-curve of the road to the right around the cyclotron building; the electronics building will be on your left. Continue between the buildings and follow the road as it bends to the left. As you go uphill, you'll see a driveway leading to the machine shop on your left (but continue to follow the main road). When you see the parking lot, the research building will be on your left and the Nevis Science Center will be on your right. Last modified on Friday, 22-Jan-2021 22:12:55 EST WEBMASTER