Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Computer Science Menu Main Nav Computer Science Department Computer Science Contact Back Back Close About Overview Mission Lab Facilities Alumni Network Giving to the Department Job Openings News and Notes Contact People Overview Core Faculty Related Faculty Postdoctoral Fellows Administrative Staff Related Links Alumni Network Contact Academics Overview Programs Courses Sample Plan of Study Areas of Emphasis Honors Theses Careers FAQ Research Publications Overview Publications Archive Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close We've Moved The Computer Science Department has moved into the new building at 245 Beacon Street adjacent to Higgins Hall. Our main office is in Room 324. Welcome to the Computer Science Department at Boston College. We are committed to advancing the state of the art in Computer Science, and to providing a challenging and exciting education for our students. Faculty members maintain active programs of research and broader scholarship in a variety of specialties, including data visualization, distributed algorithms and systems, natural language processing, data mining, programming languages, the theory of computation, and social and ethical issues in computing. CS Major/Minor Declaration Form Fall 2022 CS Course Wait List News and Notes All Faculty Students Alumni Announcements Awards In the media Our Community Student Profile Ashley Sachdeva (CS '20) says she's "passionate about assistive and accessible technology." She wants to "encourage all developers to create products which are accessible to those with disabilities." Read more about Ashley Sachdeva Alumna Profile For Julie Bacon (CS '15), "Front end (web) development is the perfect intersection of computer science and design. You get to develop the interface that the end-user sees and interacts with." Read more about Julie Bacon Alumnus Profile Brad Hayes '08 realized that he could write programs that were better computer game players than he... a "striking example of the effectiveness" of what he was learning. Read more about Brad Hayes Alumnus Profile When Brian Lauducci '93 took a robotics class in his senior year, he had no idea it would lead to a deepening relationship with his future wife. Read more about Brian Lauducci Alumna Profile Lauren Smith '11 believes computer science is ”the perfect synthesis of math, logic, and technology”. She credits BC for not only teaching her technical skills, but also the critical thinking and problem-solving skills needed to be prepared for a CS job. Read more about Lauren Smith Alumnus Profile "Computer Science was serendipitous. I met a tremendous group of people who made an immense difference in my life. Many who went out of their way to help me get ahead." — Bob Dutile '81. Read more about Bob Dutile Back To Top Back To Top Computer Science Department Integrated Science Building 245 Beacon Street Boston College 617-552-3975 Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Computer Science Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College