Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES PHILOSOPHY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHIL 100 Introduction to Philosophy (5) I&S C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL, A. WOODY Major philosophical questions relating to such matters as the existence of God, the foundations of knowledge, the nature of reality, and the nature of morality. Approach may be either historical or topical. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 100 PHIL 102 Contemporary Moral Problems (5) I&S/VLPA Blake, A. Moore Philosophical consideration of some of the main moral problems of modern society and civilization, such as abortion, euthanasia, war, and capital punishment. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 102 PHIL 110 Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy (5) I&S An introduction to political theories such as conservatism, liberalism, and socialism and their treatment of select social issues. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 110 PHIL 114 Philosophical Issues in the Law (5) I&S R. MOORE Analysis and critical assessment of various philosophical issues in law and legal reasoning. Material drawn from actual law cases, as well as writings by contemporary philosophers of law and lawyers. Topics include criminal responsibility, civil disobedience, abortion, enforcement of morals. Special legal or philosophical training not required. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 114 PHIL 115 Practical Reasoning (5) I&S, QSR C. LEE Introduction to logic emphasizing concepts and methods useful for practical analysis of arguments in everyday contexts; meaning, syllogisms, logical diagrams, inductive and statistical inference, informal fallacies, argument structure, perhaps some beginning symbolic logic. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 115 PHIL 118 Persuasion or Manipulation? The Ethics and Psychology of Influence (5) I&S Ian Schnee, Colin Marshall Influence is everywhere, from job interviews to social media. When is influence effective? When is it respectful persuasion vs. immoral deception? Is using psychological insight manipulative or just good people skills? How do biases shape persuasion, and how should we navigate them? Examines the psychology of persuasion through an ethical lens. Assessments focus on real-world applications, helping people improve as persuaders. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 118 PHIL 120 Introduction to Logic (5) I&S/NW, QSR C. MAYO-WILSON, C. WELLER Elementary symbolic logic. The development, application, and theoretical properties of an artificial symbolic language designed to provide a clear representation of the logical structure of deductive arguments. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 120 PHIL 149 Existentialism and Film (5) VLPA/I&S I. Schnee What makes life worth living? Is morality just a convenient fiction? What is the nature of the human condition? Is God dead, or just playing hard to get? Investigates the works of several existentialist philosophers, including Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Beauvoir, and uses their works to interpret and analyze the philosophical content of angst-ridden cinema of the French New Wave and Hollywood film noir. Recommended: None. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 149 PHIL 160 Why Do We Believe in Quarks, Evolution, and Other Crazy Things? Perspectives on Science, Reason, and Reality (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSON Study of how scientific theories are justified and why they are accepted, using selected examples from the history of science. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 160 PHIL 201 Topics in Philosophy (2-5, max. 10) I&S A study of philosophical topics at the introductory level. The content of the course is entirely at the discretion of the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 201 PHIL 205 Philosophy for Children (5) I&S J. LONE Introduction to the methods of "doing" philosophy with young people. Stresses the development of a community of inquiry in which budding philosophers are encouraged to ask their own relevant questions, develop views and articulate reasons for them, and to listen and learn from one another. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 205 PHIL 206 Philosophy of Feminism (5) I&S, DIV Philosophical analysis of the concepts and assumptions central to feminism. Theoretical positions within the feminist movement; view of the ideal society, goals and strategies of the movement, intersections of the sex-gender system with other systems of oppression. Offered: jointly with GWSS 206/POL S 212. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 206 PHIL 207 Issues of Global Justice (5) I&S, DIV Jamie Mayerfeld, Michael I Blake, William J Talbott Introduces issues of global justice. Topics include: global poverty and aid, immigration, transnational governance, gender in global relations, climate change, and cultural relativism. Offered: jointly with ETHICS 207/POL S 217. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 207 PHIL 240 Introduction to Ethics (5) I&S/VLPA Stephen M. Gardiner, Jean Roberts, William J Talbott Critical introduction to various philosophical views of the basis and presuppositions of morality and moral knowledge. Critical introduction to various types of normative ethical theory, including utilitarian, deontological, and virtue theories. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 240 PHIL 241 Topics in Ethics (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S Introduction to ethics through in-depth study of one or more selected topics (e.g., limits of moral community, animal rights, moral education, and freedom). Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 241 PHIL 242 Introduction to Medical Ethics (5) I&S/VLPA S. Goering Introduction to ethics, primarily for first- and second-year students. Emphasizes philosophical thinking and writing through an in-depth study of philosophical issues arising in the practice of medicine. Examines the issues of medical ethics from a patient's point of view. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 242 PHIL 243 Environmental Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S L. NICHOLS Focuses on some of the philosophical questions that arise in connection with environmental studies. Topics to be considered include: the ideological roots of current issues, values and the natural world, public policy and risk assessment, intergenerational justice, and social change. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 243. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 243 PHIL 267 Introduction to Philosophy of Religion (5) I&S Consideration of the sources of religious ideas and practices, the main kinds of religious views and the problems they raise, and the different forms that spirituality can take. Issues concerning the relations of religion to science and morality also treated. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 267 PHIL 291 Ethics in Science (5) VLPA/I&S Provides an introduction to ethics and research ethics issues in the non-medical sciences. Possible topics include: publication and peer review, intellectual property, and the social responsibilities of scientists. Offered: jointly with ETHICS 291. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 291 PHIL 301 Intermediate Topics in Philosophy (3-5, max. 10) I&S Philosophical topics at the intermediate level. Content varies each quarter, depending on instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 301 PHIL 307 Justice Across Disciplinary Boundaries (5) I&S W. TALBOTT What is justice? One of the oldest questions in philosophy and also one of the most current. A multi-disciplinary approach to understanding justice. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 307 PHIL 314 Philosophy of Crime and Punishment (5) I&S R. MOORE Examination of philosophical theories regarding criminal habits and punishment and the philosophical problems connected with specific topics in criminal law. Examines proper subject matter of criminal law (drug use, pornography, euthanasia); limits of criminal sanctions; crime and privilege (corporate crime, white-collar crime, blackmail); justifications for punishment; mercy; and execution. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 314 PHIL 320 Ancient Philosophy (5) I&S Jean Roberts, Cass Weller Survey of ancient Greek philosophy, beginning with the pre-Socratics and proceeding on through Plato to Aristotle. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 320 PHIL 322 Modern Philosophy (5) I&S C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL, C. WELLER Examination of metaphysical and epistemological problems from the works of Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 322 PHIL 325 Nineteenth-Century Philosophy (5) I&S C. MARSHALL View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 325 PHIL 330 History of Ancient Political Philosophy (5) I&S J. ROBERTS Political philosophy of fourth- and fifth-century Greece, especially the Sophists, Plato, and Aristotle, stressing the connection between the political philosophy and the underlying philosophical system of each philosopher. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 330 PHIL 332 History of Modern Political Philosophy (5) I&S M. BLAKE, W. TALBOTT Examination of major political philosophies from the sixteenth century to the nineteenth century, with attention to the underlying philosophical methods and foundations. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 332 PHIL 335 Plato's Republic (5) VLPA/I&S Designed especially for philosophy majors, but open to non-majors. Intensive study of Plato's masterpiece. Prerequisite: one PHIL course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 335 PHIL 338 Philosophy of Human Rights (5) I&S W. TALBOTT Theories of human rights and the bearing of these theories on issues of public policy such as legitimacy of war and terrorism, economic justice, and whether future generations have rights. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 338 PHIL 340 History of Ancient Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLER Development of moral thought from Socrates through the Stoics. Particular emphasis on the ethical writings of Plato and Aristotle. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 340 PHIL 342 History of Modern Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S M. ROSENTHAL, C. WELLER Development of moral thought from Hobbes through Nietzsche, with particular emphasis on the ethical writings of Hume, Kant, and John Stuart Mill. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 342 PHIL 343 Ethics and the Environment (5) I&S Lauren Hartzell Nichols Advanced introduction to environmental ethics, with an emphasis on nonanthropocentric value theory. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 343 PHIL 344 History of Recent Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S Study of major ethical writings in the twentieth century, with principal emphasis on the Anglo-American tradition. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 344 PHIL 345 Moral Issues of Life and Death (5) VLPA/I&S S. GOERING Examination of such topics as war and murder, famine relief, capital punishment, high-risk technologies, abortion, suicide, and the rights of future generations. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 345 PHIL 346 Personal Values and Human Good (5) I&S S. GOERING Examination of the idea of a good human life. Emphases differ from year to year. Typical topics include happiness and prudence, rationality and life plans, personal values and the meaning of life, autonomy and false consciousness, self-respect and self-esteem, honesty and self-deception, faith and "vital lies." View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 346 PHIL 347 Philosophy in Literature (5) VLPA/I&S Study of philosophical ideas expressed in works of literature. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 347 PHIL 350 Introduction to Epistemology (5) I&S C. MAYO-WILSON, W. TALBOTT Nature, definition, and possibility of knowledge. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 350 PHIL 356 Introduction to Metaphysics (5) I&S Introductory examination of some of the main problems in metaphysics, such as the nature of truth and reality, the metaphysical status of properties, the existence of free will. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 356 PHIL 360 Introductory Topics in Philosophy of Science (5, max. 10) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODY Study of one or more current topics in philosophy of science such as scientific realism, explanation, confirmation, causation. Prerequisite: one PHIL course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 360 PHIL 362 Topics in the Philosophy of Science (5) I&S/NW Lynn Hankinson Nelson Critical study of nature of scientific knowledge, emphasizing the role of evidence in several different sciences. Topics include accounts of scientific methods; the relation of theory to observation; how theories change; and the nature of the confirmation and falsification of hypotheses and theories. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 362 PHIL 363 Introduction to the Philosophy of Mind (5) I&S C. LEE Various theories of the nature of mind, the relationship between mind and body, the self, introspection, and knowledge of other minds. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 363 PHIL 373 Introduction to Philosophy of Mathematics (5) I&S Introduction to some of the main issues in philosophy of mathematics: to what degree are mathematical theorems justified by rational insight, sensory experience, purely symbolic computations; what is the infinite, and how can one reason about infinite sets, spaces, and numbers without becoming entangled in contradictions. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 373 PHIL 398 Philosophy for Children Practicum (2-5, max. 10) S. Goering, J. Lone Exploration of various methods for introducing philosophy to K-12 students with a focus on ways in which to establish "communities of philosophical inquiry" in classrooms. Students will develop an understanding of how to inspire philosophical discussions with pre-college students. Emphasis is on learning by doing, with students facilitating philosophy sessions in local public schools. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 398 PHIL 399 Foreign Study (2-5, max. 10) Upper-division philosophy studies with no direct UW equivalents, taken through UW foreign study programs. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 399 PHIL 401 Advanced Topics in Philosophy (3-5, max. 15) I&S A study of philosophical topics at the advanced level. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 401 PHIL 406 Philosophical Topics in Feminism (5) I&S, DIV S. GOERING, L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODY Detailed examination of questions raised by recent feminist scholarship in particular areas of philosophy, such as political theory, ethics, epistemology, or philosophy of science. Emphasis varies. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 406 PHIL 407 International Justice (5) M. BLAKE, S. GARDINER Examines issues through investigation of the moral foundations of international politics. Issues include: What moral duties constrain the relationships between states? Is international poverty a matter of moral concern? Are we justified in preferring the interest of our fellow nations? Prerequisite: one course in philosophy. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 407 PHIL 408 Philosophy of Diversity (5) I&S, DIV M. BLAKE Must a liberal political community respect all claims made on behalf of minority cultural groups? Are there moral limits to the forms of diversity compatible with just governance? Examines modern philosophical writings on these topics. Prerequisite: One philosophy course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 408 PHIL 409 Philosophy of Disability (5) I&S, DIV S. GOERING Rethinks the non-disabled assumption at the heart of much of western moral and political philosophy. Explores concepts of autonomy, opportunity, personhood, and dependence in regard to disability. Issues may include prenatal testing and reproduction, special education, requirements of accommodation, and social and legal interpretations of disability. Prerequisite: one philosophy course or LSJ 332/CHID 332, LSJ 433/CHID 433, or LSJ 434/CHID 434. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 409 PHIL 410 Social Philosophy (5) I&S W. TALBOTT An examination of topics pertaining to social structures and institutions such as liberty, distributive justice, equality and race, and human rights. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 410 PHIL 411 Justice in Health Care (5) VLPA/I&S N. JECKER Examination of the ethical problem of allocating scarce medical resources. Emphasizes the fundamental principles of justice that support alternative health policies. Offered: jointly with B H 474. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 411 PHIL 412 Ethical Theory (5) I&S N. JECKER Studies the major normative ethical theories, including both teleological and deontological approaches. Emphasizes moral philosophy during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as well as contemporary commentary. Offered: jointly with B H 402. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 412 PHIL 413 Metaethical Theory (5) I&S N. JECKER Studies the major metaethical theories, including both cognitivist and noncognitivist approaches. Emphasizes moral philosophy during the twentieth century, as well as contemporary commentary. Offered: jointly with B H 404. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 413 PHIL 414 Philosophy of Law (5) I&S R. MOORE Nature and function of law. Relation of law to morality. Legal rights, judicial reasoning. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 414 PHIL 415 Advanced Topics in Animal Welfare (5) I&S L. NICHOLS Critical examination of issues in the philosophy of animal welfare and animal rights. Prerequisite: one philosophy course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 415 PHIL 416 Ethics and Climate Change (5) I&S S. GARDINER, L. NICHOLS Critical examination of the ethical issues surrounding climate change. Prerequisite: either one philosophy or one environmental studies course. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 416. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 416 PHIL 417 Advanced Topics in Environmental Philosophy (5) I&S S. GARDINER Critical examination of issues in environmental philosophy. Topics vary. Prerequisite: one philosophy course. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 417. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 417 PHIL 418 Jewish Philosophy (5) I&S M. ROSENTHAL Introduces the central concepts and themes of Jewish philosophy. Focuses either on debates within a particular historical period - e.g., medieval or modern; or on a topic - e.g., reactions to the Enlightenment or to the Holocaust. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 418. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 418 PHIL 422 Studies in Continental Rationalism (5, max. 15) I&S C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL Study of one or more of the major continental rationalists: Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 422 PHIL 426 Twentieth-Century Philosophy (5) I&S C. WELLER A study of development of contemporary analytic philosophy, the revolt against idealism, and the linguistic turn in philosophy. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 426 PHIL 430 Hellenistic Philosophy (3) I&S J. ROBERTS Survey of the Epicurean, Stoic, and Skeptic philosophy of the Hellenistic period. Emphasis may vary. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 430 PHIL 431 Philosophy of Plato (3, max. 6) I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLER Study of selected middle and late dialogues. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 431 PHIL 433 Philosophy of Aristotle (3, max. 6) I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLER Study of several major Aristotelian treatises. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 433 PHIL 436 British Empiricism (3) I&S C. WELLER Examination of the metaphysical and epistemological views of Locke and Berkeley, with perhaps some attention also to Hume. Prerequisite: either PHIL 322 or PHIL 350. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 436 PHIL 437 Philosophy of Hume (3) I&S W. Talbott, C. Weller Hume's analyses of knowledge, the passions, and morals. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 437 PHIL 438 Philosophy of Kant (5) I&S C. MARSHALL, C. WELLER Systematic study of The Critique of Pure Reason. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 438 PHIL 440 Ethics (5) I&S J. ROBERTS, W. TALBOTT Critical examination of the concepts and judgments of value, including an analytical treatment of the notions of good and bad, right and wrong, and obligation. Emphasis varies from quarter to quarter. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 440 PHIL 441 Public Health Ethics (5) I&S C. FOURIE An in-depth study of the philosophical issues arising in the practice and policy of public health. Material consists mainly of texts from philosophy and ethics, but, due to the course's interdisciplinary nature, also includes papers from epidemiology, newspaper articles, and current public health regulations and campaigns. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 441 PHIL 442 Neuroethics (5) I&S S. GOERING Neurotechnological advances offer novel ways to address problems of movement, mood, and communication, but also call into question fundamental philosophical assumptions about the kinds of creatures we are. Explores questions of personal identity, moral and legal responsibility, privacy, security, normality, and justice in the context of neurotechnologies. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 442 PHIL 445 Philosophy of Art (5) VLPA/I&S R. MOORE Critical examination of various accounts of the nature of art, artistic activity, the aesthetic experience. Problems in interpretation and evaluation of works of art. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 445 PHIL 446 Development of Aesthetic Theory (5) VLPA/I&S R. MOORE Historical development of aesthetics, emphasizing such major figures as Plato, Aristotle, Hume, Kant, Hegel, and Goodman. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 446 PHIL 449 Philosophy of Film (5) VLPA/I&S Examines films and film theory from a philosophical perspective. Topics may include the nature of film, whether films have "authors", how films engage our emotions, whether films are vehicles of ideology, whether video games are "interactive" cinema, and whether films and video games themselves can do philosophy. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 449 PHIL 450 Epistemology (5) I&S C. MAYO-WILSON, W. TALBOTT Systematic study of some of the main problems of the theory of knowledge, such as: the definition of "knowledge"; a priori knowledge; perception and knowledge of the external world; and whether knowledge has or requires a foundation. Emphasis varies from quarter to quarter. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 450 PHIL 453 Philosophy of Language (5) VLPA/I&S Current theories of meaning, reference, predication, and related concepts. Offered: jointly with LING 476. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 453 PHIL 456 Metaphysics (5) I&S Examination of such topics as freedom of the will, the nature of persons and personal identity, the existence of God, time, necessary truth, and universals. The emphases vary from year to year. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 456 PHIL 459 Philosophy of Medicine (5) I&S N. JECKER Familiarizes students with central issues in the philosophy of medicine. Focuses on the nature of medical knowledge, the connection between theory and observation, the meaning of medical concepts, and the relationship between theories and the world. Offered: jointly with B H 440. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 459 PHIL 460 Philosophy of Science (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODY Critical study of the nature of scientific knowledge. Topics include the relation of theory to observation, the use of mathematics, how theories change, the requirements for the meaningfulness of a theory, and nature of confirmation.. Prerequisite: one PHIL course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 460 PHIL 462 Social Structure of Science (5) I&S Carole J Lee Critical study of how social structure and power in science contribute to its content and practices. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 462 PHIL 463 Philosophy of Mind (5) I&S C. LEE Examination of current theories of the nature of the mind and mental processes. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 463 PHIL 464 Philosophical Issues in the Cognitive Sciences (5) I&S/NW C. LEE Philosophical problems connected with research in psychology, artificial intelligence, and other cognitive sciences. Topics vary. Readings from both philosophical and scientific literature. Accessible to nonphilosophers with suitable interests and backgrounds. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 464 PHIL 465 Philosophy of History (3) I&S M. WYLIE Analyses of basic concepts employed in historical interpretation, and study of some of the principal philosophers of history, such as Plato, Saint Augustine, Hegel, Marx, Spengler, Toynbee. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 465 PHIL 466 Philosophy of the Social Sciences (5) I&S L. HANKINSON NELSON, W. TALBOTT, M. WYLIE Examination of fundamental issues in the foundations, methodology, and interpretation of the social sciences. Topics include value orientation and objectivity, methodological individualism, functionalism, reductionism, and the status of idealized models, including models involving idealized conceptions of individual rationality. Emphasis varies from quarter to quarter. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 466 PHIL 467 Philosophy of Religion (5) I&S M. Rosenthal Study of selected topics and problems in the philosophy of religion, such as: arguments for the existence of God; the problem of evil; atheism; faith; religious experience and revelation; the attributes of God; miracles; immortality; and the relation between religion and morality. Readings from historical and contemporary authors. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 467 PHIL 470 Intermediate Logic (5) I&S/NW, QSR An introduction to the concepts and methods of metatheory and their application to the sentential calculus. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 470 PHIL 471 Advanced Logic (5) I&S/NW Study of the first-order predicate calculus with identity and function symbols. Consistency, soundness, completeness, compactness. Skolem-Lowenheim theorem. Formalized theories. Prerequisite: PHIL 470. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 471 PHIL 472 Axiomatic Set Theory (5) I&S/NW Development of axiomatic set theory up to and including the consistency of the Axiom of Choice and Continuum Hypothesis with the Zermelo-Fraenkel Axioms. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 472 PHIL 473 Philosophy of Mathematics (5) I&S/NW Study of the traditional accounts of the nature of mathematical entities and mathematical truth given by logicism, intuitionism, and formalism, and the impact of Godel's incompleteness theorems on these accounts. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 473 PHIL 474 Modal Logic (5) I&S/NW Notions of necessity and possibility, using the classical systems T, S4, and S5, and the syntax and the semantics (Kripke models) of these systems. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 474 PHIL 479 Semantics II (3) VLPA/I&S/NW T. Ogihara Formal characterization of linguistic meaning. Emphasis on nature and purpose of formal semantics and on its relation to formal syntax. Prerequisite: LING 478 Offered: jointly with LING 479. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 479 PHIL 481 Philosophy of Biology (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSON Study of several current topics in philosophy of biology, which may include the logical structure of evolutionary theory, fitness, taxonomy, the concept of a living thing, reductionism, the concept of a biological species, evolutionary explanations, and philosophical consequences of sociology. Prerequisite: one PHIL course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 481 PHIL 482 Philosophy of Physical Science (5, max. 10) I&S/NW A. WOODY Study of philosophical issues raised by theories in physics or chemistry, such as whether space (time) is a substance, how causation and locality are treated in quantum mechanics, temporal anistropy and time travel, the nature of a field of force, the reduction of chemistry to physics. Prerequisite: one PHIL course. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 482 PHIL 483 Induction and Probability (5) NW/I&S Introduction to current accounts of evidence and observation, the confirmation of scientific theories, the logic of inductive reasoning, and the metaphysics and epistemology of chance. High school-level math used. Specific topics vary from year to year. Prerequisite: PHIL 120. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 483 PHIL 484 Reading in Philosophy (1-5, max. 15) Individual study of selected philosophical works. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 484 PHIL 490 Advanced Topics in Epistemology (5, max. 15) I&S W. TALBOTT Intensive study of a particular topic or area in epistemology. Prerequisite: either PHIL 350 or PHIL 450. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 490 PHIL 495 Philosophical Inquiry in Schools (5) I&S Goering, Lone, Shapiro Explores methods for introducing philosophy to K-12 students, focusing on ways to establish "communities of philosophical inquiry." Students learn how to inspire philosophical discussions with pre-college students, and work in pairs with the instructor to lead philosophy sessions in the seminar and in local schools. Prerequisite: one PHIL course. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 495 PHIL 498 Undergraduate Internship (1-5, max. 10) Independent fieldwork under the supervision of a faculty member. Individual experiences vary but could include an off-campus practicum or being trained as study group leader or tutor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 498 PHIL 500 Proseminar in Philosophy (5) Introduces incoming graduate students to topics representative of the field and the faculty's interest. Each class session is devoted to a separate topic taught by a different member of the faculty. In addition to reading and short written assignments, students prepare a term paper on a topic presented. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 500 PHIL 502 Pre-Dissertation Workshop I (5) Introduces cognitive, emotional, and physical labor of writing a dissertation. Topics may include cultivation of productive work habits, identifying a dissertation project, and forming the dissertation committee. Students complete the literature review requirement. Prerequisite: philosophy graduate student standing. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 502 PHIL 503 Pre-Dissertation Workshop II (5, max. 10) Doctoral students develop a piece of academic writing (prospectus draft, dissertation chapter, or conference paper), polish their CV, and continue developing the skill of giving and receiving critical feedback. Prerequisite: philosophy graduate student standing; recommended: PHIL 502. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 503 PHIL 504 Topics in Teaching Philosophy I (1, max. 5) Ian Schnee Provides first-year graduate students materials and support needed to begin teaching at the college level, with focus on role of teaching assistant. Investigates empirical work and best practices in pedagogy. Topics may include beginning and leading classroom discussions; grading philosophical assignments and time management; fostering and maintaining an inclusive classroom environment. Prerequisite: philosophy graduate student standing. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 504 PHIL 505 Topics in Teaching Philosophy II (1, max. 5) Ian Schnee Investigates how to develop and design effective courses in philosophy, and how to lead and teach these courses at the university level. Topics include assignment scaffolding, just-in-time teaching, equity in the classroom, backward course design, active learning, Bloom's taxonomy, time management, and teaching statements. Prerequisite: graduate standing in philosophy; PHIL 504. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 505 PHIL 510 Seminar in Social Philosophy (5, max. 20) W. TALBOTT View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 510 PHIL 514 Seminar in Legal Philosophy (5, max. 20) R. MOORE View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 514 PHIL 520 Seminar in Ancient Philosophy (5, max. 20) J. ROBERTS, C. WELLER View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 520 PHIL 522 Seminar in Modern Philosophy (5, max. 20) C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL, C. WELLER View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 522 PHIL 526 Seminar in Recent Philosophy (5, max. 20) C. WELLER View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 526 PHIL 538 Philosophy of Human Rights (5, max. 20) W. TALBOTT View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 538 PHIL 540 Seminar in Ethics (5, max. 20) S. GOERING, J. ROBERTS, W. TALBOTT View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 540 PHIL 545 Seminar in the Philosophy of Art (5, max. 20) R. MOORE View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 545 PHIL 550 Seminar in Epistemology (5, max. 20) C. MAYO-WILSON, W. TALBOTT View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 550 PHIL 556 Seminar in Metaphysics (5, max. 20) View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 556 PHIL 560 Seminar in the Philosophy of Science (5, max. 20) L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODY View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 560 PHIL 562 Seminar in the Social Structure of Science (5, max. 20) Carole J Lee Critical study of how social structure and power in science contribute to its content and practices. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 562 PHIL 563 Seminar in the Philosophy of Mind (5, max. 20) C. LEE View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 563 PHIL 564 Seminar in Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences (5) Examines philosophical questions raised in and by cognitive sciences, including the nature of explanation, the role of models in explanation, and debates about reductionism versus pluralism in the face of diverse research paradigms. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 564 PHIL 565 Seminar in the Philosophy of History (5, max. 20) View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 565 PHIL 566 Seminar in Philosophy of the Social Sciences (5, max. 20) C. LEE, M. WYLIE View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 566 PHIL 570 Seminar in Logic (5, max. 20) Prerequisite: PHIL 470. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 570 PHIL 574 Meta-archaeology: Philosophy and Archaeology (1-5, max. 5) Examines philosophical issues raised in and by archaeology, including theories of explanation and model building, analyses of evidential reasoning and hermeneutic interpretation, debates about ideals of objectivity and about science and values. Offered: jointly with ARCHY 574. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 574 PHIL 584 Reading in Philosophy (1-5, max. 12) Intensive reading in philosophical literature. Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Coordinator. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 584 PHIL 587 Contemporary Analytic Philosophy (5, max. 20) View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 587 PHIL 595 Philosophical Inquiry in Schools (5) S. Goering, J. Lone Explores methods for introducing philosophy to K-12 students, focusing on ways to establish "communities of philosophical inquiry." Students learn how to inspire philosophical discussions with pre-college students, and work in pairs with the instructor to lead philosophy sessions in the seminar and in local schools. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 595 PHIL 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Coordinator. View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 600 PHIL 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: PHIL 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022