COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication - Strategic Communication , Major MajorCommunication - Strategic Communication All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Elliott School of Communication Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts (BA) in communication—strategic communication emphasis—combines classroom and hands-on learning to help you gain widely applicable skills, such as creating effective presentations and conflict management. Graduates are ready for successful careers in public affairs, consulting, human resources, research, fundraising and special events planning. Learn how the communication - strategic communication emphasis - is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Communication student serves her community As a communications student, you will have the opportunity to do what you love, gain real-world experience and serve your community. Kathy Bond serves her community as an honorary commander at McConnell Air Force Base. She helped build a bridge between the Air Force and the community by using her communication and public relation skills to create relationships with adult students and the Student Veteran Organization. Curriculum In addition to taking the communication core courses required for all Elliott School students, you'll study interpersonal and organizational communication, public affairs—and complete a practicum based on your interests and career goals. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A communication degree from Wichita State combines the classroom knowledge and hands-on learning that opens doors to careers in many fields—from public relations and journalism to editing and education. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication (Minor) Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication Communication - Journalism Marketing English Psychology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©