Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Safety at Brown Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Sitemap About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Safety at Brown Emergency Communications Safety at Brown Emergency Communications When an emergency occurs on campus, Brown University will have the pertinent information you need to know. Learn about the different emergency communication systems available for you to stay informed. Brown Alert Brown University has implemented an emergency campus alert system that can contact thousands of individuals within minutes if there is an urgent situation or crisis. During critical events, Brown University will use the BrownAlert System to deliver advisories and instructions to students, faculty, staff and others via cell phones, land lines, email and other communication devices. All student, faculty and staff Brown email addresses have been loaded on the system, as have phone numbers for all Brown-owned phones. Brown students, faculty and staff can use their personal cell phone number to enable Brown to reach them in the event of an emergency. Personal cell phone numbers will only be used by authorized personnel for emergencies or official business. Students: enter your cell phone number in Banner https://selfservice.brown.edu/ Faculty and staff: enter your cell phone number in Workday http://www.brown.edu/about/administration/workday/workday-log For more information on how to update your personal information in Workday please view this video. BrownSiren Students, faculty, staff, and visitors who hear the siren should seek shelter by immediately going inside of a nearby building. The system will be used to alert people to go indoors to shelter-in-place and seek additional information. If a life threatening emergency is identified where a campus wide BrownSiren activation is necessary, the Department of Public Safety will activate the system. The activation will consist of an alert tone and a voice message regarding the nature of the emergency. Additionally the University will utilize BrownAlert and the emergency website to provide further information via telephone, email, or text messaging. Brown Emergency Website Additionally emergency.brown.edu will be used to post information during significant emergencies. This webpage will contain: Information and updates about the nature of the emergency Steps being taken to address the emergency Current status, with cumulative chronology Any necessary instructions for the University community Resources for further information Availability Check description for hours of operation Available to all campus No registration required Related Links: BrownSiren BrownAlert emergency.brown.edu Banner Log-in Workday Log-in Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Departments Department of Public Safety Office of Student Life Counseling and Psychological Services Transportation Office Institutional Diversity Health Services Environmental Health and Safety Stay Safe About Safety at Brown Brown Guardian onCall Shuttle Safewalk Personal Safety Alarm (PAL) Brown Ready Health Education Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity