Travel Guidelines - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 Guidelines & Protocols Travel Guidelines Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Campus Cleaning & Safety Practices Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu Travel Guidelines Travel Restrictions Updated March 7, 2022 Domestic Travel for faculty, staff and graduate students As of March 7, university-sanctioned domestic travel travel may resume using regular travel procedures and approval processes in place pre-COVID-19. International Travel for faculty, staff and graduate students No changes from the current protocol are being made. As a reminder, for university-sanctioned international travel, only travel consistent with the mission of the University will be permitted at the discretion of the applicable Vice President. This is effective until further notice based on conditions abroad. Return from International Travel The following CDC guidelines are applicable to all faculty, staff and students returning from international travel, whether university-sanctioned or personal: Upon returning from international travel, you should: Get tested with a viral test 3-5 days after travel. If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected. Self-monitor for COVID-19 symptoms; isolate and get tested if you develop symptoms. If you are NOT up to date with your COVID-19 vaccines, in addition to the recommendations above, you should: Stay home and self-quarantine for a full 5 days after travel These requirements for self-quarantine include international students who are traveling to the U.S. for classes. Upon arriving in the U.S., please submit the Reporting Potential Exposure form . (Note that no forms are required to be completed in advance of your travel, and no forms are required if you have been fully vaccinated.) Before returning to campus following international travel if you have not been fully vaccinated, you must complete the form Request to Return to Campus and receive written approval. Learning Abroad Students may continue to plan for 2022-2023 programs abroad with Learning Abroad. Only affiliated, reciprocal exchange, faculty-led, graduate and fellowship programs will be considered for approval. Travel abroad is not permitted on non-affiliated programs. Students must meet with their Learning Abroad Advisor for more information and to initiate the process necessary for final travel approval. Future Learning Abroad opportunities are subject to change based on conditions both in the U.S. and abroad. Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies