Skip to Content Discover What's Here Main menu Home Video Tours Be social. CU Boulder Life Boulder & Campus Colleges & Schools Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. This site Colorado.edu Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Discover What's Here Discover What's Here Menu Main menu Home Video Tours Be social. CU Boulder Life Boulder & Campus Colleges & Schools Colleges and Schools Explore each of CU Boulder's colleges & schools through videos, profiles, virtual information sessions and live chat. Arts & Sciences Business Education Engineering and Applied Science Environmental Design Exploratory Studies Law School Media, Communication and Information Music Secondary Menu First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Mobile menu Home Video Tours Be social. CU Boulder Life Boulder & Campus Colleges & Schools First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Discover what's here. Connect with us in-person or virtually. Select your student type for admissions visit options: First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Home This hub of on-campus opportunities and digital experiences allows you to explore our campus no matter where you are. Sign up for an admissions visit program, explore our videos, share your story with us on social and learn more about our student resources. Connect with us, from anywhere in the world. First-Year Students For prospective first-year students, we offer many ways to connect, explore and begin to create your personal journey. Information sessions Virtual and in-person visit experiences Connect with a counselor Transfer Students We know the transfer process can come with questions, and we’re here to help. From starting the application process to confirming your admission, our counselors are here to connect. Information sessions Connect with a transfer counselor Pre-transfer advising appointments Graduate Students If you’re interested in advancing your education, we’re here to help. Connect with us to learn about the graduate application process and how you can earn a graduate degree or certificate. Information sessions Admission counselor appointments Connect on social Colleges & Schools Explore your college, school or program. Connect with us to join a college-specific information session, chat with a student ambassador and learn about the various degree programs we offer. Explore Colleges & Schools CU Boulder Life Living On & Off Campus Campus Dining Options Be Connected. Health & Wellness Excuse/Visit Verification Excuse/visit verification forms are only issued when a student attends a formal program, hosted by the Office of Admissions. This includes in-person formalized programs, as well as virtual programs run by Admissions. An excuse/verification form may also be issued if a student officially meets with our counselor on duty, or admissions staff personnel, that are able to log the interaction on the student record. Discover What's Here Admissions Academics About CU Boulder University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page