<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Admissions Admissions College Students Who Are We Looking For? Class Profile Application Process Application Dates Events Direct from the Director Videos and Recorded Webinars → Peek Peek Event Overview This online program is intended for current undergraduate students who are interested in getting a peek into the MBA experience and to learn more about the value of an MBA for their personal and professional development. Domestic and international students of all academic majors are welcome to register for this program. Peek provides an opportunity to try out the HBS case method of study, join a leadership development discussion, gain an understanding of the career flexibility and optionality that the MBA degree provides, and connect with current students to learn about the HBS community and student experience. Who is Eligible to Apply? Peek is open to all current domestic and international undergraduate students from all academic majors. Please be aware that participation is non-evaluative and is meant to provide information about MBA Programs. Peek participation will not increase your chances of getting into the MBA program at Harvard Business School. You are welcome to register for Peek and apply for the other college preview programs. Peek Details Peek is an annual event held in January. Thank you for a great Peek 2022! Peek 2023 registration details will become available later this year. Fill out our inquiry form to join our mailing list. Have a question? Contact us at peek@hbs.edu. REGISTER FOR PEEK Peek 2023 registration is not open at this time. It will open later this year. Fill out our inquiry form to join our mailing list. Have a question? Contact us at peek@hbs.edu MBA VOICES BLOG Hear from members of our community about life at HBS. Learn more ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College