Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families First-Generation Students Congratulations and welcome to the UW! As the parent or family member of a first-generation college student, you have extra reason to be proud. Did you know that more than 30 percent of undergraduate students across the three University of Washington campuses are first-generation students? We also have many faculty and staff who are proud to be the first in their families to earn their degree. At the UW, we believe first-generation status is a strength, not a weakness. You can help support your student by encouraging them to ask their professors questions and reach out for extra guidance as needed. And, speaking of asking questions, UW Parent and Family Programs is here to support your family every step of the way. Reach out to us anytime: uwparent@uw.edu. Also, don’t miss our Parent & Family Guide. It’s full of information on everything from campus tutoring centers to student housing options to financial aid. Campus contacts Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity UW Family Orientation CLUE tutoring Academic Success Coaching Let's get acquainted UW family orientation is a great way to collect the information and skills necessary to support your student. We welcome parents, partners, grandparents and other friends and family members of first-year students. Here when they need us A variety of academic support programs are available at UW, and we encourage students to share their first-generation status with their professors, advisers and TAs. The Center for Learning and Undergraduate Education (CLUE) provides drop-in tutoring in Mary Gates Hall, the HUB and Othello-UW Commons in South Seattle. Students who are first-generation college students, or from historically underrepresented groups may also access tutoring through the Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity. Common first-generation student questions Common first-generation student questions What support systems are available to first-generation students at each of the UW campuses? UW Bothell, UW Tacoma and the Seattle campus each have unique offerings to support first-generation students. Here’s an overview of what’s available. On the Seattle campus, the Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity (OMA&D) has a long history of providing access and academic support for thousands of first-generation students on campus and across the state. Tutoring, one-on-one coaching, writing centers and study skills workshops are also available. Our Samuel E Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center has a wealth of resources and opportunities available to students, including student advising, organizational development, personal growth, and referrals to different departments and programs. How can my student connect with other first-generation students? We have many first generation student groups that your Husky can join. They can find a peer mentor (or become one!), sign up for the first-gen updates list, and be on the lookout for special events and opportunities tied to National First-Generation College Celebration day on Nov. 8. What types of scholarships and grants are available for first generation students? Visit the Student Financial Aid webpages for information about all types of aid, including scholarships, grants and emergency relief funds. Counselors are also available for one-on-one appointments. For Washington state students, the Husky Promise is a guarantee that we will not let financial challenges stand in the way of their UW degree. Learn more here. How can my student give back and help other first-generation students? The UW Dream Project is a service-learning course that supports middle- and high-school students across the Puget Sound region with college access and post-secondary planning. We encourage first-generation UW students who are passionate about educational equity to consider becoming mentors. First-generation students who are upperclassmen may also sign up for the firstUW mentorship program. My student is undocumented. How can they find information and support? Leadership Without Borders (LWB) was created with undocumented students in mind. Its mission is to serve as a launch pad for students’ leadership, a space for community building, and a connection point for awareness, as well as to resources and services for undocumented students. Did you know? Nov. 8 is National First-Generation College Celebration, an opportunity to celebrate the presence and success of first-generation college students, faculty and staff on college campuses around the country. As part of this event, several students have shared their stories of being the first in their families to attend college. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA