Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERSCHOOL OR INTERCOLLEGE PROGRAMS GLOBAL HEALTH Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 G H 101 Introduction to Global Health: Disparities, Determinants, Policies, and Outcomes (5) I&S Todd Faubion, Stephen Gloyd Provides an introduction to global health, including: the burden and distribution of disease and mortality; the determinants of global health disparities; the making of global health policies; and the outcomes of global health interventions. Offered: jointly with GEOG 180/JSIS B 180; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 101 G H 201 Multidisciplinary Perspectives in Global Health (1) I&S, DIV David Citrin Presenters from a multidisciplinary group of professionals introduce key topics, challenges, and opportunities in the field of global health. Speakers provide a broad-based overview of disparities, determinants, policies, and outcomes in global health, as influenced by factors such as communication, culture, and global power structures, among others. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 201 G H 210 Confronting Global Diseases: Introductory Biologic Principles and Context (3) NW Joshua Herbeck, Stephen J. Polyak Provides a broad introduction to the leading causes of disability and death globally. Covers the basic biologic and scientific principles of globally prevalent human health problems, including the connections between the biology of disease and current prevention and treatment interventions used in public health. Not intended for biological science majors. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 210 G H 220 Global Environmental Change and Public Health (3) I&S Kristie L Ebi Humans are the primary drivers of global environmental changes that are changing the planet on the scale of geological forces. Students will be introduced to these changes and their consequences for human health and well-being, with a focus on climate change and its consequences. Offered: jointly with ENV H 220. View course details in MyPlan: G H 220 G H 305 Global Health and Justice (3) I&S Beth E. Rivin Explores health as a human right, focusing on injustices and inequities that occur around the world that result in disease, disability and death. Using a justice framework, considers social determinants of health and vulnerabilities of marginalized groups. Students learn about sustainable development goals, human rights law, bioethics and the pivotal role that law and ethics play in addressing injustices in health, including in the U.S. Offered: jointly with LAW 305; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 305 G H 306 Introduction to Collaborative Approaches and Respectful Partnerships in Global Health (5) I&S K. Beima-Sofie, K. West Introduces students to principles and concepts of community-based participatory research (CBPR), and other approaches that center the community and focus on respect, relationships, and mutual benefit. Emphasizes self-reflection of our own abilities to respectfully engage with communities, and prepares students to be mentees in global community partnerships. Recommended: G H 101 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 306 G H 307 Introduction to Implementation Science: From Knowing to Doing (5) I&S Anjuli D Wagner {she-her}, Gabrielle O'Malley Students learn how implementation science can be used to strengthen real world implementation of global health interventions that have proven effective in research settings. Using a collaborative, hands-on approach, students practice identifying effective solutions to global health problems, adapting interventions to fit local context, and planning to test and scale these solutions in real world settings. Recommended: G H 101. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 307 G H 308 Contemporary Issues in Non-Communicable Diseases (5) I&S, DIV Rachel A Nugent, David Watkins Introduces noncommunicable diseases by putting their causation, health and socioeconomic impact, and control strategies into a global context. It examines their global burden, determinants, risk factors, health disparities, and preventive actions. Both health service interventions and intersectoral measures are explored based on evidence review and economic evaluation. Global policies to foster and monitor action are reviewed. Recommended: G H 101 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 308 G H 345 Global Health Economics (5) I&S C. Levin Introduces the application of health economics and the tools economists use to inform global health solutions in low and middle-income countries. Examines relationship between global health and development, survey of health economic evaluation concepts with focus on diseases and conditions in low and middle-income countries. Recommended: ECON 200 strongly recommended, G H 101 recommended Offered: jointly with ECON 345; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 345 G H 360 Exploring the HIV/AIDS Pandemic (5) I&S/NW, QSR Connie L. Celum, Adrienne E Shapiro Presents a comprehensive overview of the historical, public health, clinical, and biological aspects of HIV infection. Covers impact of AIDS on community and global health care and prospects for prevention and control. Offered: jointly with EPI 360; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 360 G H 399 Global Health Study Abroad (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in approved study abroad programs. Requires credit evaluation by department or faculty. Does not automatically apply to major or minor requirements. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 399 G H 401 Core Topics in Global Health (1/3) Patricia B Pavlinac Examines a variety of foundational global health topics including maternal, adolescent, and child health; nutrition; infectious diseases; environmental health; non-communicable diseases; and mental health. Within each topic area, we will define the problems, complexities, and context, and establish the need for multidisciplinary approaches. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 401 G H 402 Current Research and Programs in Global Health (1/3) Christine J McGrath Examines current research and programs in Global Health priority areas with an emphasis on the use of research evidence to inform policy and implementation strategies in programmatic settings. Evidence-based approaches to address key global health issues in maternal, adolescent, and child health, infectious diseases, environmental health, and non-communicable diseases will be evaluated. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 402 G H 406 International Climate Negotiations within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (1) I&S Kristie L Ebi Explores the status of the negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, including key agreements reached; the role of science; and the diverse perspectives of countries and sectors. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 406 G H 410 Advanced Biologic Principles of Global Diseases (3) NW Lucy A. Perrone Presents selected communicable and noncommunicable diseases of global health importance at an advanced level. Students learn about biological principles, host-pathogen interactions, and other factors that influence the burden of global health diseases. Prerequisite: either BIOL 180, G H 210, or MICROM 301. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 410 G H 415 War and Health (4) I&S A. Hagopian, E. Kanter Explores the health consequences of war (injury, infectious diseases, mental health, chronic disease, malnutrition, infrastructure) and the role of health professionals and others in preventing war (advocacy, measurement and application of epidemiology methods, promotion of social equity). Offered: jointly with HSERV 415; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 415 G H 418 Understanding and Managing the Health Risks of Climate Change (3) Kristie L Ebi The health risks of climate change are multiple and range across the public health space. Addresses current and projected health risks of climate change and the policies and measures to manage these risks as the climate continues to change. Offered: jointly with ENV H 418; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 418 G H 419 Global Perspectives in Bioethics (3) I&S, DIV N. Jecker Examines problems in bioethics from diverse global standpoints, including East Asian, Sub-Saharran African and Western. Our emphasis is on developing a deeper understanding of the cultural assumptions that lie just beneath the surface of bioethics debates. Readings from contemporary philosophy, film and literature. Recommended: Prior course work in ethics, philosophy, or global health. Offered: jointly with B H 488; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: G H 419 G H 446 Global Perspectives on Reproductive Health (3) I&S, DIV A. Drake, J. Unger Provides comprehensive overview of global reproductive health, with an emphasis on current issues and challenges in resource-limited settings. Students will be engaged in topics from diverse disciplines, including public health, demography, epidemiology, policy, sociology, and medicine. Topics covered include contraception, abortion, human rights, HIV, access to services, and politics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 446 G H 454 Bioengineering Solutions to Improve the Health of Families Worldwide (1) I&S, DIV Alexis L Kaushansky Seminar series that engages students in interdisciplinary discussions about global health. Explores how bioengineering approaches contribute to (1) the study of problems of global health importance, (2) the development of diagnostics, and (3) the discovery of interventional strategies to improve human health. Emphasizes collaboration between students and researchers with backgrounds in infectious disease, basic science, and bioengineering. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 454; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 454 G H 456 Global Mental Health (3) I&S, DIV Rao Examines the socio-cultural and political forces that impact assessment, manifestation, and treatment of mental illnesses worldwide. Students take a critical view of diagnostic systems and examine cultural differences in presentation of mental illness. Also reviews treatment practices in low resource settings, cultural-specific communication, and stigma. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 456 G H 458 Global Violence and Health (3) I&S, DIV S. Benki-Nugent Examines the socio-politico-cultural forces that give rise to violence and the impact of violence on population health. Discusses public health methods, policies, and interventions that can be used to decrease the occurrence and severity of violence in real world circumstances, including countries at all economic levels. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 458 G H 482 The Health of Populations (4) I&S, DIV Explores what makes a population healthy or unhealthy. Examines why the United States is less healthy than all other rich countries, despite being one of the healthiest fifty years ago. Offered: jointly with HSERV 482. View course details in MyPlan: G H 482 G H 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 490 G H 493 Public Health Uganda (2) DIV Prepares students to conduct a research project in Uganda. Students refine a research question, conduct a literature review, prepare data collection instruments, and make Institutional Review Board applications. Faculty recruit and cultivate the research project topics in advance from their contacts in Uganda. Offered: jointly with HSERV 493; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 493 G H 499 Undergraduate Research (1-15, max. 15) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 499 G H 501 Core Topics in Global Health (1) Patricia B Pavlinac Examines a variety of foundational global health topics including maternal, adolescent, and child health; nutrition; infectious diseases; environmental health; non-communicable diseases; and mental health. Within each topic area, we will define the problems, complexities, and context, and establish the need for multidisciplinary approaches. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 501 G H 502 Current Research and Programs in Global Health (1) Christine J McGrath Examines current research and programs in Global Health priority areas with an emphasis on the use of research evidence to inform policy and implementation strategies in programmatic settings. Evidence-based approaches to address key global health issues in maternal, adolescent, and child health, infectious diseases, environmental health, and non-communicable diseases will be evaluated. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 502 G H 505 P-Advanced Global Health (2) Prepares health profession students for work in developing countries. Includes healthcare delivery systems, political, social, and economic determinants of health, major global health issues, and personal well-being while abroad. Lecture and seminar format with guest speakers, student presentations, and discussion. Offered: jointly with MED 560. View course details in MyPlan: G H 505 G H 511 Problems in Global Health ([0-4]-, max. 4) Steve Gloyd Explores social, political, economic, and environmental determinants of health and societal responses to health problems globally. Covers impact of colonialism, equity strategies, Primary Health Care, neoliberalism, war, international agencies, the climate crisis, water, sanitation, and traditional health systems. Student groups develop proposals to improve health systems or address social determinants of health in a specific low-income country. Offered: jointly with HMS 511; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 511 G H 514 Global Population Health (2/3) Stephen Bezruchka Describes the factors that enhance and detract from achieving a healthy population. Details approaches to achieving population health in various countries and global regions. Covers special topics in population health. Students learn what leads to good population health, and how this is achieved around the world. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 514 G H 515 War and Health (4) A. Hagopian, E. Kanter Explores the health consequences of war (injury, infectious diseases, mental health, chronic disease, malnutrition, infrastructure) and the role of health professionals and others in preventing war (advocacy, measurement and application of epidemiology methods, promotion of social equity). Offered: jointly with HSERV 515; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 515 G H 516 Health and Human Rights (3) Beth E. Rivin Examines the basic concepts in the fields of human rights law and public health, and uses those concepts to examine the interdependence and tensions between the two fields. Introduction to the fields of public health and human rights law, examining the impact of health policies and programs on human rights. Offered: jointly with LAW H 540; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 516 G H 517 International Bioethics, Social Justice, and Health Seminar (1, max. 3) Rivin Explores case studies of ethical dilemmas in research and medical practice and violations of international human rights norms in the design, implementation, and evaluation of health programs and policies. Bioethics and human rights law are the foundational tools for critically evaluating global health impact. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with LAW H 506; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 517 G H 518 Understanding and Managing the Health Risks of Climate Change (3) Kristie L Ebi The health risks of climate change are multiple and range across the public health space. Addresses current and projected health risks of climate change and the policies and measures to manage these risks as the climate continues to change. Offered: jointly with ENV H 518; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 518 G H 519 Global Perspectives in Bioethics (3) N. Jecker Examines problems in bioethics from diverse global standpoints, including East Asian, Sub-Saharran African and Western. Our emphasis is on developing a deeper understanding of the cultural assumptions that lie just beneath the surface of bioethics debates. Readings from contemporary philosophy, film and literature. Recommended: Prior course work in ethics, philosophy, or global health. Offered: jointly with B H 588; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: G H 519 G H 521 Leadership Development in Global Health (3) Nancy M Campbell Focuses on the personal and practical leadership skills that are required to effectively supervise individuals and teams in complex global health settings. Through assessment, reflections and facilitated discussions, participants develop a clearer sense of their own leadership strengths and weaknesses through an engagement with topics including, personal and professional vision, mission, and values; communication and influencing strategies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 521 G H 522 Project Management in Global Health (3) Covers the fundamentals of project management, including conducting needs assessments, creating planning and implementation documents, managing resources, transitioning projects, and monitoring and evaluating projects. Discusses practical tips, tools, and techniques for how to address unexpected challenges that inevitably arise in international and other low resource settings. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 522 G H 523 Policy Development and Advocacy for Global Health (3) Jeff Lane Primarily taught through case- and problem-based learning and small group work, explores complex factors affecting global health policy and how context (e.g., ideology, culture, and history), international institutions, scientific knowledge, and stakeholder interests affect the structure of and changes to a nation's health system and its performance. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 523 G H 530 Methods, Tools, and Data in Global Health (2) Emmanuela Gakidou Familiarizes students with current global health issues and their analytical challenges. Introduces analytical methodologies, quantitative concepts, statistical packages applied to global health challenges, and software used in health metrics and evaluations research. (Two weeks). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with HMS 539; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 530 G H 531 Monitoring and Evaluation of Global Health Programs (3) Caryl Feldacker Focuses on practical, feasible, and appropriate program monitoring and evaluation (M&E) methods in global health, supporting evidence generation for quality health interventions in low resource settings. Builds skills across all phases of planning, developing and implementing a program M&E plan. Students design an evaluation of a global health program. Assumes prior knowledge of health intervention planning and mixed methods research designs. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 531 G H 532 Responsible Conduct of Research: Global and Local (3) Alison Drake, Carey Farquhar Prepares international and U.S. students to develop research proposals; conduct international and domestic field research; and present scholarly work. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with EPI 586; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 532 G H 533 Survey Research Methods (4) A. MOKDAD Provides students with skills in questionnaire development and survey methods. Students develop a questionnaire and design a survey research proposal on a health-related or social topic. Prerequisite: either HSERV 511/HSERV 513; BIOST 517/BIOST 518; or EPI 512/EPI 513, which may be taken concurrently, or permission of instructor. Students should have a survey project in mind. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 527/HSERV 527. View course details in MyPlan: G H 533 G H 534 Statistical Methods for Spatial Epidemiology (3) Motivates the need for, and describes methods for the analysis of spatially indexed epidemiological data. Covers four major topics: clustering and cluster detection, disease mapping, spatial regression, and an introduction to geographical information systems. Considers both point-references and spatially aggregated data. Offered: jointly with BIOST 555/EPI 555. View course details in MyPlan: G H 534 G H 535 Advanced Methods for Global Health I (4) Bryan Weiner Focuses on the advanced concepts, theories, and methods of implementation science in global health, with a specific focus on fidelity, adaptation, strategy selection, de-implementation, sustainability, scale-up, advanced trials designs, qualitative methods, and mixed methods. Assumes prior knowledge of the fundamentals of implementation science. Prerequisite: G H 541 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HMS 535/HSERV 526; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 535 G H 536 Advanced Methods for Global Health II (4) Presents applications of the cluster-randomized trial design to estimate the impact of interventions for a global health and implementation science audience. Covers trial design and implementation, reviews methods commonly used for analysis. Assumes prior knowledge of generalized linear models and modern methods to analyze correlated data, including generalized estimating equations (GEE) and random-effects models. Prerequisite: either BIOST 540, CS&SS 560/SOC 560/STAT 560, or permission of instructor; recommended: EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with BIOST 528/EPI 553/HMS 536; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 536 G H 537 Advanced Methods for Global Health III (4) Brad Wagenaar Focuses on applying advanced non-randomized methods to quantitatively evaluate global health implementation science questions, including a specific focus on applying difference-in-differences, interrupted time-series, and regression discontinuity designs. Assumes prior knowledge of generalized linear models and modern methods to analyze correlated data, including generalized estimating equations (GEE) and random-effects models. Prerequisite: either BIOST 540, CS&SS 560/SOC 560/STAT 560, or permission of instructor; recommended: EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with BIOST 525/EPI 556/HMS 537; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 537 G H 538 Advanced Qualitative Research Design and Methods in Global Health (3) Provides students with both a theoretical foundation in qualitative approaches to research in public health and in-depth training in qualitative research design, methods, and proposal development. Focuses on how to frame research questions, design appropriate research strategies, conduct interviews, gather other qualitative data, write proposals, and analyze data. Students should prepare by identifying a topic for a research project proposal. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 538 G H 539 Analyzing Qualitative Data (3) Kristin M Beima-Sofie Expands upon qualitative data analysis methods introduced in other courses to ensure students gain practical skills to complete independent qualitative analysis. Students gain expertise with coding strategies and approaches, use of frameworks, translation and presentation of findings, approaches for rapid data analysis, and mechanics for writing manuscripts and reports. Recommended: prior coursework in qualitative research methods including study designs and data collection procedures View course details in MyPlan: G H 539 G H 541 Fundamentals of Implementation Science in Global Health (4/5) Judith N. Wasserheit, Kenneth Sherr Provides an introduction to the emerging field of implementation research by outlining various methods that are applied to improving implementation (including applied engineering, management tools, health systems, and policy research), and using experiential case studies from global health leaders. Addresses barriers to effective replication and scale-up in local settings. Offered: jointly with HMS 541; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 541 G H 542 Introduction to Economic Evaluation for Global Health (2) Monisha Sharma Introduces the concepts and methods for economic evaluation in low and middle-income countries with a focus on cost-effectiveness analyses and methods that are specific to work in resource-limited settings. Topics covered include measuring costs, valuing health outcomes in disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), discounting, utilizing models to conduct economic evaluation and evaluate uncertainty, and prioritizing in environments of scarcity. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 542 G H 543 Global Health Pharmacy: Medicines, Practice, and Policy (2) Andy Stergachis Introduces the critical role of pharmaceutical in addressing major diseases (such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis) affecting persons in resource-limited settings. Addresses the wide range of relevant issues, including burden of disease, human resource capacity, regulation, drug safety/pharmacovigilance, drug distribution, pharmacoeconomics, financing, intellectual property, and drug trade policies. Offered: jointly with PHARM 581. View course details in MyPlan: G H 543 G H 544 Maternal and Child Health in Low and Middle Income Countries (3) D. DENNO Emphasizes critical health problems of women and children in developing countries in social, economic, and cultural contexts. Practical approaches to developing MCH programs shared via lecture/discussions, exercises, and small group work. Students acquire skills in baseline assessment, setting objectives, planning and evaluating interventions, and involving communities. Offered: jointly with HSERV 544; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 544 G H 545 Child Health in Low and Middle Income Countries ([0-3]-, max. 3) Denno Provides an understanding of the causes and functional effects of the most prominent child health problems. Examines trends and progress in global child health and explores potential explanations for these trends. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 545 G H 546 Global Perspectives on Reproductive Health (3) I&S, DIV A. Drake, J. Unger Provides comprehensive overview of global reproductive health, with an emphasis on current issues and challenges in resource-limited settings. Students will be engaged in topics from diverse disciplines, including public health, demography, epidemiology, policy, sociology, and medicine. Topics covered include contraception, abortion, human rights, HIV, access to services, and politics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 546 G H 547 Adolescent Health in Low-Resource Settings (1) Keshet Ronen Highlights issues affecting adolescents in resource limited settings with an initial focus on what makes adolescents unique. Topic-based seminars, journal article discussions, and student-led discussions will include: adolescent development; physical and psychological trauma; illicit activities; ethics and the law; adolescent-focused research and programming; and public policy. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 547 G H 549 Global Laboratory Systems (1) Olusegun O. Soge Provides an overview of the role of clinical and public health laboratories in a national public health system, both in US and globally. Covers the functional components of a laboratory system and the importance of quality laboratory information on public health policy making. Topics include disease diagnosis, surveillance, outbreak response, law and regulation and how laboratory information contributes to health policy development. Offered: jointly with LAB M 549; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 549 G H 554 Bioengineering Solutions to Improve the Health of Families Worldwide (1/2) Alexis L Kaushansky Seminar series that engages students in interdisciplinary discussions about global health. Explores how bioengineering approaches contribute to (1) the study of problems of global health importance, (2) the development of diagnostics, and (3) the discovery of interventional strategies to improve human health. Emphasizes collaboration between students and researchers with backgrounds in infectious disease, basic science, and bioengineering. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 554; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 554 G H 555 Nutrition in Developing Countries (3) Introduces issues of nutrition in developing countries, with an emphasis on the control and prevention of undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. Offered: jointly with NUTR 555; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: G H 555 G H 556 Global Mental Health (2-3) Deepa Rao Examines the socio-cultural and political forces that impact assessment, manifestation, and treatment of mental illnesses worldwide. Students take a critical view of diagnostic systems and examine cultural differences in presentation of mental illness. Also reviews treatment practices in low resource settings, cultural-specific communication, and stigma. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 556 G H 558 Global Violence and Health (2-3) Sarah F. Benki Examines the socio-politico-cultural forces that give rise to violence and the impact of violence on population health. Discusses public health methods, policies, and interventions that can be used to decrease the occurrence and severity of violence in real world circumstances, including countries at all economic levels. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 558 G H 560 Principles of STD/HIV Research (2) Renee Heffron, Christine M Khosropour Provides MD and PhD fellows and graduate students with a comprehensive overview of the current state of knowledge in specific areas of STD/HIV research, including study design, laboratory methods, production of instruments for data collection, and methods for data analysis. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: G H 560 G H 561 Tropical Medicine (1) Seth Cohen, Frederick S Buckner Intended for professional health science students interested in learning the pathophysiology, epidemiology, and clinical presentation of disease conditions that are more commonly seen in less-developed countries, resource-limited settings, or tropical climates, and how to diagnose, treat, and follow the resolution of these diseases with commonly limited resources. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with MED 561; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 561 G H 562 AIDS: A Multidisciplinary Approach (2) Carey Farquhar Comprehensive overview of the public health, clinical, and laboratory aspects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and disease. Topics include the pathogenesis, natural history, and management of HIV infections; the impact of HIV/AIDS on community and global healthcare; and prospects for prevention and control. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with EPI 530/MED 530. View course details in MyPlan: G H 562 G H 563 HIV/STI Prevention Research Methods (3) R. Heffron, A. Roxby Focuses on current research and implementation of HIV/STI prevention including biomedical, behavioral, and public health interventions. Includes analyzing strength of research evidence to support novel interviews, understanding key features of study design, and applying interventions that are most appropriate and feasible for specific settings and populations. Offered: jointly with EPI 549. View course details in MyPlan: G H 563 G H 565 Diseases and Issues in Global Health (2) O. Soge Provides a broad perspective on global health issues; the biology and strategies for control of diseases of global importance; the global health landscape; and factors that influence global health. Recommended: Background in cellular and molecular biology, and microbiology recommended. This course is intended for students pursuing laboratory-based research in pathogen biology. Offered: jointly with PABIO 550; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 565 G H 566 Biochemistry and Genetics of Pathogens and Their Hosts (4) Provides a strong foundation in biochemistry, molecular biology, and genetics for students interested in disease. Principles illustrated through examples focusing on pathogens, and infectious and non-infectious disease. Prerequisite: undergraduate-level coursework in molecular biology or biochemistry, or permission of instructor. Instructors: L. Campbell Offered: jointly with PABIO 551; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 566 G H 571 Essential of Clinical Care and Capacity Building in Low Income Countries (2) M. Blank, J. Zunt An interdisciplinary case-based forum of presentations by local and international lecturers and class discussions on realities of providing healthcare in low-income settings. Covers issues in prevention, socioeconomic underpinnings, management of medical and surgical conditions, and sustainable strategies to build capacity. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 571 G H 572 Global Health Fieldwork: Preparation, Integration, Reentry (2) Susan M. Graham Prepares students for community-based global health experiences, and provides them the opportunity to share, discuss, and reflect on these experiences after returning to the United States. Explores the problems and promise of current global health strategies. Prerequisite: participation in International Health Opportunities Program or similar experience. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 572 G H 574 Global Health Nursing (3) Reviews global health topics and the complex local and global conditions that affect the health and illness of individuals, communities, and populations. Emphasizes the multi-faceted roles of health care providers. Offered: jointly with NURS 581; A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 574 G H 575 Global Health Leadership for the Clinician (3) Carey Farquhar, Aliza Monroe-Wise One-month intensive course for clinicians interested in careers in global health. Designed to teach the skills necessary to become future leaders in this field. Comprised of several different components, including field visits to local global health organizations, lectures, and small group case-based discussions. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 575 G H 576 Health in Complex Humanitarian Emergencies (2) D. TOWNES Covers the principles of planning, implementing, and evaluating health programs for refugees and internally displaced persons during complex humanitarian emergencies in resource poor countries. Topics include rapid assessment; surveys; surveillance; nutrition; camp management; epidemiology of infectious diseases; water and sanitation; and vaccination campaigns during international relief operations for complex humanitarian emergencies. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 576 G H 580 Global Health Doctoral Seminar (1/2, max. 4) Bernardo Hernandez Prado, Kenneth Sherr Examines the most critical issues in global health and currently available solutions. Introduces complementary perspectives of metrics and implementation science to build a multidisciplinary understanding of these issues, including effective and appropriate strategies for their control. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with HMS 580; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 580 G H 583 Public Health Uganda (2) Prepares students to conduct a research project in Uganda. Students refine a research question, conduct a literature review, prepare data collection instruments, and make Institutional Review Board applications. Faculty recruit and cultivate the research project topics in advance from their contacts in Uganda. Offered: jointly with HSERV 593; W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 583 G H 585 Global Health Leadership and Practice Doctoral Seminar I (3) Focuses on leadership development, linking theory and practice, and exploration of career pathways. Supports planning of practice doctorate's Leadership and Practice Experiences (LPEs) and doctoral meta-project. Topics include personal leadership and application of leadership principles. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: G H 585 G H 586 Global Health Leadership and Practice Doctoral Seminar II (3) Focuses on leadership development, linking theory and practice, and exploration of career pathways. Supports planning of practice doctorate's Leadership and Practice Experiences (LPEs) and doctoral meta-project. Topics include strategic, technical and managerial leadership. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: G H 586 G H 587 Global Health Leadership and Practice Doctoral Seminar III (3) Focuses on leadership development, linking theory and practice, and exploration of career pathways. Supports planning of practice doctorate's Leadership and Practice Experiences (LPEs) and doctoral meta-project. Topics include leadership in health policy, advocacy, communications and governance. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 587 G H 588 Advanced Global Health Leadership and Practice Doctoral Seminar (1, max. 3) Nancy Puttkammer Focuses on leadership development, linking theory and practice, and exploration of career pathways. Supports self-reflection and learning during Leadership and Practice Experiences (LPEs) and planning for doctoral Meta-Project. Combines instructor and peer-led teaching through presentation of case studies and group analysis and discussion. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 588 G H 590 Selected Topics in Global Health (1-5, max. 15) Focuses on topics relevant to global health. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 590 G H 592 Program Seminars (1-6, max. 6) Addresses specific educational needs of students within the Department of Global Health. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 592 G H 593 Rethinking Global Health (1, max. 3) Deepa Rao, Ahoua Kone Focuses on building a global health Master of Public Health cohort with a sense of camaraderie, confidence, and communication skills to participate effectively in future work in global health. Topics covered include social injustice, inequity, and a deep examination of our roles as public health professionals within the field of global health. We use an open forum for exchange of viewpoints. Students are considered co-developers of the course. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: G H 593 G H 595 Master's Practicum (1-6, max. 6) Supervised practice experience providing an opportunity to apply knowledge and skills in a setting of relevance to global health. Prerequisite: permission of faculty adviser. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 595 G H 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 600 G H 700 Master's Thesis ([1-10]-) Individual research effort, faculty supervised, conducted explicitly for the purpose of creating generalizable new knowledge and contributing to one or more public health problems. Helps students expand, synthesize and hone their research, analysis, and communication skills. Prerequisite: permission of thesis chair. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 700 G H 701 Master's Capstone ([1-10]-) Individual or group-based project, faculty supervised, through which students contribute to addressing one or more public health problems. Helps students expand, synthesize, communicate, and hone public health skills obtained in the Master's program. Prerequisite: permission of capstone chair. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 701 G H 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*) Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Advisor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: G H 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022