Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory LGBTQ Center [email protected] Trans Health Resources LGBTQ Center Trans Health Resources The LGBTQ Center can assist you in navigating various health care resources that may be available to you. If you would like to have a confidential conversation about options available to you as well as support in accessing those resources please set up an appointment with Kelly Garrett at [email protected] or call (401) 863-3495. Student Health Insurance The Brown University student health insurance plan available to all students covers many gender affirmation surgery, counseling, and hormones. Insurance plans can change over time so for the most up-to-date information about coverage for your specific needs please contact the Brown Health Insurance office directly. If you already have Brown student insurance you can also contact the health insurance provider directly. All contact information can be found at the Student Health Insurance Website. When confirming coverage for gender affirmation care it is highly recommended to get confirmation in writing regarding the parameters of what is being covered. Staff Health Insurance The Brown University staff health insurance plans, Blue Cross Blue Sheild of RI and United Healthcare, cover many types of gender affirmation surgery, counseling, and hormones. Each plan has comparable coverage, but before enrolling it is advised to confirm that your needs will be met under one plan or the other. You can find information about different plans on the Brown Human Resources Insurance Website. You may need to call the plan directly to get the most up-to-date information on what is being covered and if your doctors are in-network or out-of-network. When confirming coverage for gender affirmation care it is highly recommended to get confirmation in writing regarding the parameters of what is being covered. If you have any questions or concerns feel free to contact Kelly Garrett ([email protected]) in the LGBTQ Center to assist with advocacy of benefits. On-Campus Health Resources University Health Services can meet most of your primary care needs and health care providers are available to give referrals to off-campus resources as needed. Our providers do not prescribe hormones but once you receive a prescription it can be filled at our on-campus pharmacy. Bwell Health Promotion at Brown provides online resources for a variety of health questions. You can also find Trans Health information available online. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is a resource available to all students who may be seeking support for any issues they may be experiencing. CAPS can provide referrals to off-campus providers as needed. At this time we are referring out to off-campus providers if a student is seeking a letter for gender confirmation health care services. CAPS works in collaboration with the LGBTQ Center in identifying Trans affirming therapists in the local Providence area. Community Resources The TGI Network of Rhode Island can assist you in finding community resources. In addition, they have a trans support group named Borderlands that meets regularly. To find out more about Borderlands email [email protected]. Thundermist Health Center can provide comprehensive trans health care to students, staff and community members. Please contact them directly to find out more information. Home About Newsletter Get Involved [email protected] Pronouns At Brown Gender Inclusive Restrooms Gender Inclusive Housing Name, ID, Email Health Resources Sexual Assault, Harassment, and Gender-Based Discrimination Social & Support Groups Coming Out to Staff & Faculty Staff & Faculty Resources Resources Grad Resources LGBTQ Community Leadership Award Alumni Lavender Graduation Print this Page Share this Page LGBTQ Center Brown University 321 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Mailing Address: Box 1915 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3062 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 3 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 4 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 5 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory LGBTQ Links Trevor Project Youth Pride, Inc. PFLAG AIDS Care Ocean State The Task Force Connect with us LGBTQC on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our email lists