Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Access Memphis Memphis Promise Guaranteed Tuition Plan Tuition Cap Uniform Tuition Rate Complete the FAFSA Questions? Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Access Your Future Learn more about the Guaranteed Tuition Plan > Access Affordable Education Our Tuition Cap Helps Reduce Costs > ACCESS MEMPHIS Learn more about the Memphis Promise Scholarship > PreviousNext Take Action Apply for Admission FAFSA Hope Scholarship Contact Us Follow UofM Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Access Memphis Access your future. We believe income should never get in the way of education. That’s why we’ve had the lowest tuition and fee increases in the state of Tennessee over the past five years. More than 90% of our full-time freshmen receive financial aid, and once enrolled, are supported through various ACCESS MEMPHIS programs, dedicated to helping keep them in school and meet educational goals. Because at UofM, we’re all about forward progress. More than 50 percent of first-time freshmen at the University of Memphis are eligible for Pell grants (families with household incomes under $50,000). Last year, 86 percent of these students had their tuition and fees fully covered by Pell, Hope Scholarship and UofM institutional aid. We are committed to continuing to expand these numbers each year and believe we will be covering all tuition/fees for these qualifying students by the fall 2021. Access Affordable Education. The Memphis Commitment The University of Memphis' commitment has always been, and continues to be, one of delivering high-quality educational programs to all of our students at the lowest possible cost. Toward this end, the UofM recently approved and implemented the following as part of our Access Memphis initiative: Tuition Guaranteed tuition plan with locked-in rates for eight consecutive semesters | Learn more about the Guaranteed Tuition Plan > Credit hours above 12 hours for undergraduate Tennessee residents and 10 hours for graduate Tennessee residents incur no additional charge | Read about the Tuition Cap > Traditional and online courses offered for on campus are offered at the same per credit hour price. | Learn about the Uniform Tuition Rates > Scholarships Academic scholarships begin at 3.25 GPA & 22 ACT (ERW+M=1100). | Learn more about Scholarship Opportunities > Additional scholarships based on leadership, service and diversity. The Memphis Promise is a last-dollar scholarship which fills the gap between a student’s financial aid (Federal Pell Grant, Tennessee State Grants/Scholarships, institutional aid) and the cost of tuition. | Learn more about the Memphis Promise > Memphis Promise The Memphis Promise is a commitment to assist Tennessee residents with funding their college education at the University of Memphis. The Memphis Promise is a last-dollar scholarship which fills the gap between a student’s financial aid and the cost of tuition. *Must qualify for the Federal Pell Grant and Hope Scholarship Access Memphis. Would you like additional information about tuition assistance, Memphis Promise or other Access Memphis topics? Submit the form below and our team will contact you. If you see this don't fill out this input box. First Name* Last Name* Email Address* Phone Number Question* Submit - or - Contact us via phone at 901.678.3213 Hear Darryl's UofM Story Simplified Student Fee Structure Updates Over the past year, the University has been committed to access and affordability initiatives which simplify and create uniformity in our tuition and fee structure. We will continue to discuss a proposal to simplify our mandatory fee structure. View details of the proposed structure and provide feedback > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/16/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.