Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Visit Us We can’t wait to see you! Home About Visit More in this section About What We Stand For Thought Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Driving A Global Mindset Building Global Alliances Developing Global Leaders "Glocal" Perspectives Global Responsibility International Accreditation and Rankings Educating Principled Leaders Dedication to Sustainability Experiential Learning At a Glance Meet the Dean John A. Quelch Life at Miami Herbert Life in Miami | Miami Herbert University of Miami Student Housing Miami Herbert Leadership Miami Herbert’s Advisory Council Academic Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Directions and Parking Directions to University of Miami Coral Gables Campus Driving from the North From I-95 Take I-95 South, which feeds into U.S. 1; continue south on U.S. 1 about five miles. Take a Right at Stanford Drive, crossing Ponce de Leon Blvd. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. From I-75/826 Take I-75 take 826 (Palmetto Expressway) south to Miller Drive exit. Take a Left onto Miller Road (SW 56th Street) to end of road. Take a Right onto San Amaro Drive to end. Turn Left onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard. Take a Left at third light onto Stanford Drive. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. From Florida Turnpike Take Florida Turnpike south to Bird Road (SW 40th Street) and exit east. Continue on Bird Road to LeJeune Road (42nd Avenue), turn right. Take a Right onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard, then right onto Stanford Drive. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. Driving from the south From US-1 Take US 1 North through South Miami and take a left onto Stanford Drive. (Book Horizons will be on the right.) From 826 Take 826 (Palmetto Expressway) West/North, to exit Miller Drive (SW 56th Street). Take a Left onto Miller Road (SW 56th Street) and go east until the end of the road. Take a Right onto San Amaro Drive to the end of that road. Take a Left onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard and another Left at the third light onto Stanford Drive. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. Driving from Miami International Airport Exit airport onto LeJeune Road south for about five miles (through downtown Coral Gables). Take a Right onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard. At Stanford Drive (just after Granada Boulevard), make a right into the University of Miami. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. The University of Miami campus is located in Coral Gables and is easily accessible from and to the Miami International Airport. Suggested transportation methods: SuperShuttle is available for approximately $11 per person and is located at the downstairs level, outside of baggage claim. Taxicab fare is approximately $20 -$25 from the airport to campus. Parking For University of Miami visitors, either a valid UM parking pass is required between 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Monday - Friday or a paid meter is necessary. Parking is available at: Municipal parking meters - Please note that you will be ticketed if time expires. Pavia Garage - Ask the information booth for directions to Pavia garage. You will need to purchase a parking pass from 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Monday - Friday. To familiarize yourself with all the parking facilities on campus, please refer to the Coral Gables Campus map. Directions to Miami Herbert Business School The School is located to the west of the Stanford Circle. For specific directions to various locations within the School, please refer below: Executive Education Dining Room Once in the Miami Herbert Business School building, stay to the side nearest the canal. You will come to a glass atrium with two elevators. Take an elevator to the third floor. The elevator doors will open to a large lobby. Proceed to the back of the lobby straight into the Executive Education Dining Room. Storer Auditorium The Storer Auditorium is located on the ground floor of the School facing a rotunda with a fountain (opposite side of the Stanford Circle). Graduate Business Programs Office Proceed to the center of the School where you will find four elevators. Take an elevator to the second floor and proceed to Suite 221. Visit Miami Herbert To schedule a campus visit at Miami Herbert Business School, please contact the undergraduate or graduate program offices. Undergraduate Business Education 104 Merrick Building Coral Gables, FL 33124-2010 Telephone: 305-284-4641 Toll-Free: 800-368-3795 Fax: 305-284-5024 Email: undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu Graduate Business Programs 221 Jenkins Building Coral Gables, FL 33124-6524 Telephone: 305-284-2510 Toll Free: 800-531-7137 Fax: 305-284-1878 Email: mba@miami.edu Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback