Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now UCF Nanotech Unlocks Big Possibilities Professor Laurene Tetard uses nanoscience to keep people and plants safe and boost renewable energy production. How the smallest things can make the biggest impact Top-Ranked Academics Ranked among the top 15 Most Innovative Universities in the Nation by U.S. News & World Report, UCF’s 220+ programs are of the highest academic caliber. World-Class Faculty Our faculty are solving tomorrow’s greatest challenges, today — They turn possibilities into reality through groundbreaking research, innovative teaching and academic excellence. Globally-recognized Research UCF researchers attract more than $200 million a year in grants and awards — driving us to become a top university for producing patents and a powerhouse in scientific advancement. Teaching for the 21st Century With more than 220 degree programs in 13 colleges, UCF provides an education for the future, today. Our award-winning faculty provide mentorship and cutting-edge educational experiences, and connect students to research and career opportunities around the world. Or Browse By: Bachelor’s Degrees Graduate Degrees Top 10 Majors* Top 10 Majors* Psychology Health Sciences – Pre Clinical Biomedical Sciences Nursing Mechanical Engineering Computer Science Integrated Business Hospitality Management Finance Biology * Enrollment data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. The Power of Potential Founded in 1963 to fuel the region’s talent pipeline and support the growing U.S. space program, UCF is built to make a better future for our students and society. It’s one of the reasons U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF among the nation’s top 20 most innovative colleges, while Forbes, Kiplinger and The Princeton Review rank us a best-value university. As a leading metropolitan research university in Florida, we are driven to do more and be more. We believe success can only happen when we expand opportunity and demand excellence. We believe if there’s a better way, we should do it. We believe innovation comes from the meeting of diverse viewpoints. And when more people unleash their full potential, anything is possible. Learn more about UCF. 18,000+ Degrees Conferred Each Year 4.25 Average Incoming Freshman GPA 357 National Merit Scholars 20.6% Undergraduates are First-generation Students* *Fall 2021 In The News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during… Colleges & Campus UCF Med School’s Historic Milestone — 10th Graduating Class UCF’s medical school has now graduated 956 doctors and has gained a national reputation for its excellence, innovation and pioneering spirit as it helps build… Pegasus Magazine Featured Story More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. UCF Ranked Top 10 Best Online Bachelor’s Programs in 2022 For the fifth consecutive year, UCF’s online bachelor’s programs have ranked among the top in the nation. Explore More Online Rankings Life Is Good in Orlando Living in America’s most popular tourist destination has its perks, but there’s a lot more to Orlando than theme parks and thrill rides. From our dynamic downtown to our eclectic neighborhoods and wide-open nature reserves, Orlando offers more reasons to explore than you can imagine. And with 236 days of signature sunshine to enjoy, it’s no surprise that so many UCF alumni choose to stay in the region after graduation. Learn more about UCF’s Locations and Campuses. Upcoming Events Up Next May 31 7:00 pm Alcoholics Anonymous ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to… Looking Ahead Jun 1 12:00 am Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy Jun 1 9:00 am Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy Jun 1 9:00 am Government Contracting: Overview View All Events Let’s Get Social Find ways to get involved and stay connected. Follow UCF social media for student life, updates and more. ucf.edu/social Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Follow us on TikTok Thirteen colleges. Unlimited possibilities. At UCF, we offer an array of academic options for just about every interest. Check out our 230+ degree programs, award-winning faculty and groundbreaking research. You’ll quickly discover all there is to experience and get inspired by at one of the nation’s largest universities. Arts and Humanities Business Burnett Honors Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Rosen College of Hospitality Management Sciences Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida