COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Supplemental Instruction Section Menu Student Success Supplemental Instruction Find Tutoring Become a Tutor Grading Scale Speaking with your Professor Study Tips and Techniques Student Email Guide Please login to your Blackboard and check your SI Leader’s Blackboard course to see the most updated information from your SI Leader. Supplemental Instruction (SI) is an international program developed to assist students with learning material in traditionally difficult classes. It is a series of weekly review sessions for students taking certain courses. SI sessions are led by a student who has previously succeeded in the course and focus on collaborative and active learning. Research has proven that students who participate in SI earn about half a letter grade better than those who do not. Attendance at sessions is voluntary and completely free. For the student, it is a chance to get together with other students in the class to compare notes, discuss important concepts, develop strategies for studying, and test yourself before the professor does. The program’s focus on collaborative learning makes sessions fun and provides another connection to campus to aid in academic success. Supplemental Instruction earns International Certification! The Supplemental Instruction Program at Wichita State began in the fall of 1989. Since then, SI has developed an excellent track record of improving student success. We are proud to be a certified Supplemental Instruction (SI) program by the International Center for Supplemental Instruction at the University of Missouri-Kansas City. Wichita State University’s SI program is the 26th program in the country and the 1st program in Kansas to earn certification. Certified programs are recognized as leaders in the field of Supplemental Instruction because they adhere to the core principles of the model and receive development and coaching from the staff at the International Center for SI. » View a list of Spring 2022 SI courses SI Leaders SI Leaders are prepared to share with students how to effectively study for the course. Leaders attend the same class and take notes. At SI sessions, the Leader guides students through the course concepts and share the strategies he or she used to be successful Leaders will not re-lecture, give out notes, help students with assigned homework, or encourage last minute test cramming. Meet the SI Leaders for Fall 2021! Interested in becoming an SI leader? Apply here. Senior SI Leaders SI Sr. Leaders are trained staff assistants who each supervise a team of SI Leaders. Sr. Leaders are responsible for: identifying courses for the Supplemental Instruction component meetings with the faculty of the courses training the student leaders compiling semester and end-of-year reports Supplemental Instruction is located in the Shocker Learning Center Lindquist 107 Call 316-978-3023 for Supplemental Instruction. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©