Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security The Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security in Temple’s Fox School of Business helps students address an organization’s technological infrastructure risks, such as cyberattack, fraud, internal abuse and negligence. This 12-credit graduate certificate has an innovative curriculum that aligns with the ISACA, the industry-leading association for information technology risk management professionals. With coursework built around current industry standards, this certificate helps students to advance and enrich their professional paths. Whether you are seeking to broaden your professional horizons or working to earn the continuing education credits necessary to maintain your credentials, this professional certificate equips accounting and risk assurance professionals with the tools to meet the growing demand for candidates with information technology auditing and control skills. Credits earned as part of the Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security may also be transferred to Fox’s Master of Science in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security. Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Classes & Curriculum Potential topics covered as part of the Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security program include network and operating systems security; protection of information assets; and security architecture and ethical hacking. Learn more about required courses within the Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration Executive Program MBA Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Careers This professional certificate program is intended for accounting, business and IT professionals seeking to enhance their IT risk management and/or information system security audit and control knowledge; and current Certified Information Systems Auditor and Certified Information Systems Security professionals seeking to maintain their certifications. Alumni Employers Temple University maintains strong ties with employers, both within the city of Philadelphia and beyond, who have employed, or who currently employ, former Temple students. Graduates from the Management Information Systems program have gone on to work for a variety of employers, including Cigna; Comcast Corporation; Deloitte Consulting, LLP; Deloitte; Ernst & Young; Grant Thornton; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; KPMG; Pfizer; Protiviti, Inc.; Prudential Financial; PwC; QVC; RSM; SAP America, Inc.; TD Bank; Temple University; and Vanguard. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact David Lanter is the Information Technology and Cybersecurity academic director, as well as the program contact for the Graduate Certificate in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security. Phone: 215-204-3077 Email: david.lanter@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ITAC-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info