Skip to main content Penn Menu Business Services Residential Services Penn Home My Dining at Campus Express × Main navigation Locations, Hours & Menus All Locations & Hours All Menus Residential Dining Retail Dining Farmer's Market Micro-Markets Vending Mobile Ordering More Ways to Use Your Plan Dining Plans Overview First-Year Second-Year Transfer, Exchange, & Upperclass Graduate Faculty & Staff Summer Dining Dietary Accommodations FAQs Terms & Conditions Events Health & Wellness Our Commitment Eating Smart On-Campus Dietitian Nutrition Strategies Campus Health Partners Sick & Flu Policy Vegan & Vegetarian About Us About Penn Dining Our Team Sustainability Community & Student Engagement News & Updates Penn Menu Business Services Residential Services Penn Home My Dining at Campus Express Facebook Link Twitter Link Instagram Link Feed your mind & fuel your success. Locations, Hours + Menus Wellness starts from within. Health + Wellness A meal plan for every appetite. Dining Plans Health & Wellness Eating Smart is more than just food. The health of our students is our priority and that starts with their food. Working with award-winning food service providers and local farms, we serve meals made from healthy ingredients through sustainable practices in a socially responsible manner. Eating Smart Hungry? Let's Eat All Locations If you're not sure whether you're in the mood for all-you-care-to-eat dining or a quick snack on-the-go, check out all of the options we have to offer. Learn More Retail Dining Whether you’re looking for a bountiful meal or a simple bowl of soup, our retail locations have something for every palate. Use your Dining Dollars to enjoy everything from fresh, hand-rolled sushi to made-to-order salads or even a Starbucks coffee while reclining in plush seating next to our glass fireplace. Learn More Residential Dining Craving pasta? And pizza? And a salad? And ice cream? Sounds like you’re looking for all-you-care-to-eat dining. Swipe in to one of our residential cafés for sit-down or grab-n-go, you’ll find what you’re looking for. Learn More Micro-Markets Offering a variety of food options with wellness in mind, including vegetarian, gluten-free, and vegan items, as well as coffee and assorted beverages. The Micro-Markets at ARCH and Mark's Cafe meet students' needs with expanded hours of operation and range of food items. Learn More Penn Eats Mobile Ordering As the official mobile ordering app for Penn Dining, Penn Eats offers students the convenience to order ahead and pay in advance at select retail locations. Learn More Awards + Recognition National Association of College & University Food Services 2019 Loyal E. Horton Gold Award Awarded Gold for the 2019 Loyal E. Horton Award for Retail Sales - Single Concept/Multiple Concept/Marketplace – Large School from the National Association of College & University Food Service The Daily Meal Top University Dining Penn Dining has consistently maintained placement in the list of top University dining program by the Daily Meal. National Association of College & University Food Services 2018 Loyal E. Horton Award Awarded Silver for the 2018 Loyal E. Horton Award for Residential Concept – Large School from the National Association of College & University Food Services CollegeRank.net Ranked 6th Best College Dining Penn Dining was ranked 6th in the 50 Best College Dining Experience by CollegeRank.net Upcoming Events Look at all the things you can enjoy. Penn Dining brings you flavorful, nutritious food and helps create community across campus by providing easy access to conveniently located, great tasting meal options right on campus. Hang out with your friends and enjoy the array of tastes, fun events and flexibility that truly makes a dining plan worth having. Learn more about Joe's Café See Penn Cooks Events Need a meal to-go? Use our Green2Go program! Sustainability On-the-go made easy with mobile ordering. Download Mobile App Connect News + Updates Contact Us Explore Bon Appetit Advertise With Us Contact Us Penn Dining 3702 Spruce Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215 898 3547 Facebook Link Twitter Link Instagram Link Footer menu Privacy Policy Disclaimer Report Accessibility Issues Copyright © 2021 University of Pennsylvania