Skip to main content Boise State News Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Boise State News Only Boise State News Boise State News Podcasts Contact Us More section menu items Top Stories View all Top Stories Three Broncos head abroad as Fulbright scholars, more named alternates and semifinalists May 24, 2022 Three Broncos head abroad as Fulbright scholars, more named alternates and semifinalists Boise State has a reputation of advising record numbers of students who receive Fulbright scholarships.... Tod Colegrove is the new dean of the Albertsons Library May 20, 2022 Tod Colegrove is the new dean of the Albertsons Library Nancy Glenn selected as Vice President for Research and Economic Development May 18, 2022 Nancy Glenn selected as Vice President for Research and Economic Development Meet spring 2022 commencement speaker Kenny Huston May 05, 2022 Meet spring 2022 commencement speaker Kenny Huston New College of Education dean named May 04, 2022 New College of Education dean named View all Top Stories Winter 2021 Boise State Magazine From expansive features on research collaborations that span the globe to profiles of fascinating alumni, take a few moments to get to know Boise State on a deeper level. Boise State Magazine Boise State Magazine Boise State Magazine In Depth Predict and protect: anthropology student maps cultural heritage sites History literally runs quite deep. Beneath parking lots, in muddy river-beds and even on military testing grounds: no matter where one stands, records of the earth’s and humanity’s history dwell below. Accidental discoveries of these archaeological sites fuel curiosity and wonder, and connect people to their cultural heritage. But these discoveries often prompt another important question: how does one protect a site that hasn’t yet been found? For Julio Gonzalez Tepetla, a Boise State’s master student in applied anthropology, Boise State offered him the opportunity to do exactly that. Under the mentorship of associate professor of anthropology Pei-Lin Yu and Distinguished University Professor Emeritus Mark Plew, and in coordination with the Idaho National Guard, Gonzalez Tepetla is working to predict and protect archeological and cultural heritage sites that may exist in the Orchard Combat Training Center. Read full story Mapping Archeological Sites Boise State Media Highlights The Conversation: A boom in fitness trackers isn’t leading to a boom in physical activity – men, women, kids and adults in developed countries are all moving less The Conversation: A boom in fitness trackers isn’t leading to a boom in physical activity – men, women, kids and adults in developed countries are all moving less The Conversation: A boom in fitness trackers isn’t leading to a boom in physical activity – men, women, kids and adults in developed countries are all moving less Boise State Public Radio: These soon-to-be grads (and Idaho’s next generation of K-12 teachers) complete the sentence, ‘I wouldn’t be here today if…’ Boise State Public Radio: These soon-to-be grads (and Idaho’s next generation of K-12 teachers) complete the sentence, ‘I wouldn’t be here today if…’ Boise State Public Radio: These soon-to-be grads (and Idaho’s next generation of K-12 teachers) complete the sentence, ‘I wouldn’t be here today if…’ USA Today: Why I, a former refugee from Laos, started a museum of international diaspora in ... Idaho USA Today: Why I, a former refugee from Laos, started a museum of international diaspora in ... Idaho USA Today: Why I, a former refugee from Laos, started a museum of international diaspora in ... Idaho KTVB: Boise State University students celebrate commencement KTVB: Boise State University students celebrate commencement KTVB: Boise State University students celebrate commencement News for the Campus Community Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Mental wellness benefits update The application Headspace is no longer available for free to Boise State employees. Access to... Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Vietnamese Boise State MBA graduate's fast track to university administration Author’s Note: During the 1990s, Boise State was the first American university to deliver academic... Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Courtheyn's book on peacebuilding in Colombia translated into Spanish Christopher Courtheyn, assistant professor of Global, Urban, and Environmental Studies in the School of Public... Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Office of the Provost announces changes to Center for Global Education The Center for Global Education is now the Center for Global Engagement. The center was... Latest News Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving Business and Entrepreneur-ship Business and Entrepreneur-ship Business and Entrepreneur-ship Campus Life and Student Success Campus Life and Student Success Campus Life and Student Success Education, Innovation and Leadership Education, Innovation and Leadership Education, Innovation and Leadership Health, Science and Technology Health, Science and Technology Health, Science and Technology Humanities and Arts Humanities and Arts Humanities and Arts Public Service and Global Impact Public Service and Global Impact Public Service and Global Impact All Boise State News All Boise State News All Boise State News Faculty and Staff in Action View all Faculty and Staff in Action Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Borgias wins water policy and economics dissertation award Wednesday, May 25th, 2022 Courtheyn's book on peacebuilding in Colombia translated into Spanish Tuesday, May 24th, 2022 Masarik publishes article on resiliency among resettling refugee youth Tuesday, May 17th, 2022 History department creates a new scholarship for incoming freshmen Monday, May 16th, 2022 Theatre program earns national awards for 'Oedipus Tremendous' What's Happening Boise State? Looking for something to do? Each week Boise State University hosts a variety of events—lectures, performances, exhibitions and concerts just to name a few. Visit the Events Calendar to stay up to date on what’s happening at Boise State. Full Boise State calendar Subscribe to Campus News Update Submit your name and email address to subscribe to the Boise State University Campus News Update email. Name * Required First Last Email * Required CAPTCHA Submit Δ Office of Communications and Marketing communications@boisestate.edu (208) 426-1577 Alumni and Friends Center Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University Back To Top