Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Professional Training Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Note: There are no current cohorts of Ivriyon, but Ivriyon courses may be taken during the summer sessions. The Ivriyon summer institute prepares day school educators to teach Judaic subjects engagingly and effectively in Hebrew. The program combines intensive language immersion with powerful learning experiences to strengthen participating educators’ Hebrew language skills. What Participants Gain The four-week, full-time immersion program focuses on developing participants’ expressive skills through intensive communicative practice, writing, grammar review, and vocabulary expansion. At Ivriyon, educators will learn to: Teach their lessons in Hebrew Create a Hebrew environment in their classrooms Lead discussions in Hebrew with students Write grammatically correct exercises and instructions Help students articulate ideas and feelings in Hebrew Converse comfortably with Hebrew-speaking colleagues After the summer immersion program, each participant will be assigned a mentor to work with throughout the school year. Who It’s For Ivriyon is designed for day school teachers of grades K–12 and for graduate students of Jewish education who plan to teach in a day school. Participants should come to Ivriyon with an intermediate level of Hebrew. High-intermediate proficiency is a stage of linguistic development at which the basic language structures and general vocabulary have been learned and can be activated fairly fluently (though with errors) in controlled or preplanned communicative situations and over a limited range of topics. The description is based on the guidelines of the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). Expectations for Incoming Ivriyon Participants Speaking: Participants can describe self and family, daily routines, and environment; narrate past events; and discuss future plans using present- and past-tense verbs. They are likely to have trouble with irregular conjugations and uncertain control of the future tense. They can handle simple, everyday communicative tasks and social situations, and express opinions in simple terms. Reading: Participants can read vocalized text without errors but read unfamiliar unvocalized text inaccurately and slowly. They can extract general information from simplified narrative, descriptive, and discursive texts, though they may rely more on lexical clues and overall context for deriving meaning than on grammatical relations. They have to read material several times for understanding. Listening: Listening at the high-intermediate level is characterized by ability to understand sentence-length utterances uttered at a normal pace, as well as questions asked in context or repeated. The learners can gather the main gist of an overheard conversation on familiar topics, but need vocabulary preparation and contextual support in order to understand a lecture on an abstract topic. Writing: Participants can compose a short letter, a diary entry, a description of a problem, etc., with some spelling and grammar errors and basic vocabulary. Overall, the writing reflects the individual writer’s speech. Program Structure A typical day includes: Warm-up: Participants begin the day with a casual conversation in Hebrew to develop ease of expression while integrating new vocabulary and grammar. Dikduk: Small group sessions focus on improving Hebrew grammar, especially the verb system and syntax. Classroom Simulations: Participants rotate teaching sample lessons in Hebrew while fellow participants act as class members. Lessons are followed by constructive feedback and reflection. Hebrew Educational Technology: In JTS’s well-equipped language lab, participants strengthen their Hebrew keyboarding skills, learn to use Hebrew software, and explore online teaching resources. Individual Projects: Each participant chooses an educational project in Hebrew to develop over the course of the program and present at the program’s closing session. Instructors The instructors are native Hebrew speakers who are veteran members of the JTS Hebrew Language faculty. Interactive Environment We believe that Hebrew is best learned in an environment that is interactive and fun. Ivriyon has a small student-teacher ratio, and class time includes Hebrew conversations, the teaching of model lessons, and Hebrew workshops and presentations. You will strengthen your communicative skills, go on Hebrew field trips, and participate in workshops with experts on the teaching of Jewish studies in Hebrew. Ivriyon is generously funded by The AVI CHAI Foundation. Contact Us For more information, please contact us at hebrew@jtsa.edu or (212) 678-8972. SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message