COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Creative Writing, Major MajorCreative Writing All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature - Creative Writing A Bachelor of Arts in creative writing from Wichita State will expose you to the diverse world of literature. You'll take workshops in your chosen genre and benefit from study with visiting distinguished writers. Graduates are ready to pursue their MFA in creative writing or for careers in many different settings. Learn how creative writing is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The bachelor's degree consists of 15-credit-hours of core of classes. You'll also take six credit hours in another area of emphasis, such as literature or linguistics, and at least 12 credit hours of workshops in fiction, poetry, playwriting or nonfiction. View the curriculum Careers A degree in creative writing from Wichita State will equip you with skills that lead to diverse career options. Writers are employed throughout the public and private sectors—from advertising agencies and the film industry to non-profits and academia. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Creative Writing (Minor) English Filmmaking Communication - Journalism Theatre 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©