Home About Legacy Stories Leave Your Legacy Giving Home Select Page ENDOWMENTS The University of Texas at Austin offers a world-class education, works as a powerful engine for discovery and transforms students into leaders. When you establish an endowment, you are making an everlasting gift in support of our students, faculty and programs. Browse FEATURED STORY Cory and Priscilla Redding Family Scholarship The Redding Family wanted to establish this endowment to help provide educational opportunities to undergraduate students with demonstrated financial need. Growing up with humble beginnings, Cory has lived his life based upon three basic values: Desire, Discipline, and Dedication. Cory believes these values lay the foundation for future success and as such, it is his desire that recipients of this endowment possess the same spirit. The Reddings' Story Latest Endowments Mr. & Mrs. James H. Lee Endowed Presidential Scholarship Excellence Funds & Program Support In early 1998, Jim Lee became the youngest Texas alumnus ever to endow a scholarship when he established the Mr. & Mrs. James H. Lee Endowed Presidential Scholarship at the McCombs School of Business. Just 31 years old at the time, Jim reflected on why he and... Sarah and Alex Groen Endowment for International Learning Excellence Funds & Program Support Sarah and Alex Groen both believe wholeheartedly that the importance of travel for business students cannot be overstated. In establishing the Sarah & Alex Groen Endowment for International Learning, it’s their hope that this endowment will create life-changing... Robert D Cresap Presidential Endowment Fund Excellence Funds & Program Support “In recognition of more than 35 years of his leadership in the field of taxation and accounting, an Endowed Presidential Scholarship in the name of Robert D. “Bob” Cresap was established by his Arthur Andersen partners and his friends. Bob was active in the... Latest Endowments Mr. & Mrs. James H. Lee Endowed Presidential Scholarship Excellence Funds & Program Support In early 1998, Jim Lee became the youngest Texas alumnus ever to endow a scholarship when he established the Mr. & Mrs. James H. Lee Endowed Presidential Scholarship at the McCombs School of Business. Just 31 years old at the time, Jim reflected on why he and... Sarah and Alex Groen Endowment for International Learning Excellence Funds & Program Support Sarah and Alex Groen both believe wholeheartedly that the importance of travel for business students cannot be overstated. In establishing the Sarah & Alex Groen Endowment for International Learning, it’s their hope that this endowment will create life-changing... Robert D Cresap Presidential Endowment Fund Excellence Funds & Program Support “In recognition of more than 35 years of his leadership in the field of taxation and accounting, an Endowed Presidential Scholarship in the name of Robert D. “Bob” Cresap was established by his Arthur Andersen partners and his friends. Bob was active in the...  Contact utendowments@austin.utexas.edu  How to Give Learn more at giving.utexas.edu U Search Endowments Look for inspiring stories UT Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Adobe Reader UT Giving Home Texas Exes Update Your Information Facebook Twitter Google RSS © University Development Office 2019 | The University of Texas at Austin