Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology About Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Perkins has one of the nation’s top faculties, covering the range of theological and pastoral scholarship and preparation. Perkins’ Intern Program has become the model for effective field preparation for practical ministry. Perkins’ Bridwell Library is one of the finest in the nation, housing nearly 400,000 volumes in biblical studies, theology, and church history. Perkins’ Spiritual Formation Program guides students’ personal formation while preparing them to facilitate the spiritual growth of others. Perkins works one-on-one with students through a variety of financial aid and scholarship programs, and courses offered in Dallas and Houston/Galveston to ensure that theological education is both affordable and accessible. Perkins is part of Southern Methodist University, offering opportunities for interdisciplinary learning in schools such as SMU’s Cox School of Business and Dedman School of Law. Students from all 50 states and more than 30 foreign countries have responded to the call to pursue their vocation at Perkins School of Theology. Many are entering the ministry as a second career. Approximately 50% are women and nearly one-third are ethnic minorities. While most of our students are United Methodist, about 35% represent other denominations. More than a seminary, Perkins is a microcosm of our society and our world. We offer you many opportunities not just to observe, but to participate in the exceptional interplay between faith and cultural traditions represented in our community of faith. Learn more about Perkins in A Profile of Our Community: Enrollment Facts and Statistics [PDF] About Perkins' Mission and Context Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Statement of Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share