Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Campus Life On-Campus Dining On-Campus Dining Whether it be breakfast, lunch, dinner or late night, Georgetown has something to satisfy any of your cravings. Inside of our dining hall, you’ll find a variety of cuisines, including a pop-up reserved for a rotating local restaurant. Throughout campus, you’ll find options ranging from coffee and snack shops to our on-campus pub. No matter your tastes, you’ll find it here. 1 of 4 Previous Slide Next Slide Leo O’Donovan Hall Craving barbecue? Looking for vegetarian? The main campus dining hall features six different restaurant concepts inspired by global and American cuisine. The Fresh Food Company at Leo’s offers buffet-style meals at 10 stations, with allergen-free, vegetarian, smokehouse and more. Sample food from a local restaurant once a week. Eat at Leo’s Quick Links Meal Plans Menu and Hours Locations 1 of 4 Previous Slide Next Slide The CORP Chances are if you are looking for a late night bagel, milkshake or double shot of espresso, you will find yourself at one of The Corp’s locations. The Students of Georgetown, Inc., aka The Corp, runs seven subsidiary on-campus companies, including coffee shops, grocery stores and a catering company. Only our undergraduates work as employees or sit as members of The Corp’s board of directors, making it the largest student-run nonprofit in the world. Eat & Drink at The Corp Play Youtube Video Feast at the Farmers’ Market Each Wednesday of the fall and spring, we host the Georgetown Farmers’ Market. Dine al fresco from the nearly 30 local vendors that serve up barbecue, kombucha, empanadas, pastries and more. Hungry? 2,233 Restaurants In DC 15 Coffee Shops Within 10 Blocks 23 Farmers’ Markets In DC Play Youtube Video Dining in the District Ranked as one of the top 10 most exciting food cities in the country, DC is home to renowned chefs, international tastes and restaurants to satisfy cravings at any budget. From typical American fare to international flavors like Ethiopian, Georgian or Japanese to diverse food halls to farmers’ markets with fresh, local produce, the city is a haven for foodies hungry for something delicious. Where to Eat Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog