Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Civil Engineering MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Civil Engineering MS Apply Request More Info Civil Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Civil Engineering In the Master of Science in Civil Engineering program in the College of Engineering at Temple University, you will master the skills needed to build and maintain the infrastructure of the modern world—including airports, bridges, canals, dams, highways, roads and tunnels—and also develop the geotechnical and structural analyzation skills required for responsible engineering. In addition to building on your existing technical and practical skills, you’ll become a more articulate, socially aware contributor to the civil engineering profession. Learn to unpack and critically evaluate key challenges and issues facing society’s infrastructure and formulate intelligent engineering solutions. The master’s degree program in Civil Engineering is structured in a flexible sequence so that you can plan ahead and structure your academics around your personal and professional commitments. Small classes, low student-to-faculty ratios and in-person learning make for an effective, tight-knit graduate learning environment. Lab coursework, experiments and research are performed in extensive, cutting-edge facilities stocked with modern tools and instruments that will better prepare you for the professional environment. Credit Requirements The Civil Engineering MS requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Classes & Curriculum The graduate degree comes with a great deal of flexibility: You can choose to study full time or part time, with most classes beginning after 4:30 p.m. Many students finish their requirements in the span of two years, though the time limit for completion is five years. The recently revised curriculum reflects the most up-to-date research and skills, preparing students to excel in today’s industry. The curriculum is particularly strong in construction management as well as infrastructure, both of which are fast-growing job markets. The core courses solidify your foundations in engineering and math before you delve into elective coursework on a variety of topics. You’ll have the flexibility to tailor the degree to your career aspirations and preferences; two-thirds of your courses will be electives chosen based on your interests. You can even take electives outside of the engineering department to shape your personal curriculum. Examples of some available electives include Advanced Soil Mechanics, Behavior and Design of Steel Structures, Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering, and Structural Design of Pavements. Take a look at the full list of required courses. You’ll choose one of three tracks. Thesis 24 credits of course work six credits of thesis work Project 27 credits of didactic course work three credits of project work Course work 30 credits of didactic course work Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Civil Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Related Graduate Degrees Civil Engineering PhD Student Clubs & Organizations From Engineers Without Borders to Temple Robotics to professional and honor societies, student clubs in the College of Engineering provide numerous ways to network, socialize and excel outside the classroom. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s student clubs and organizations. Our Advisors Your assigned faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with policies, procedures and scheduling. EN-CEE-MSCE Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Civil Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info