Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Experience SIPA SIPA Stories Meet the people who exemplify the SIPA difference. Our extraordinary faculty, alumni, and students are devoted to addressing the critical public policy challenges of today and tomorrow. You are here Home Experience SIPA Explore these profiles to learn more about SIPA’s impact — in diverse policy fields, in locations around the world. David-Arnold.png David Arnold MPA 17 Michal-Alter.jpg Michal Alter MPA 13 Visit.org is a digital platform for social impact travel experiences founded by Michal Alter (‘13 SIPA). Arash-Asady.jpg Arash Asady MIA 14 Emcee Invest is social investing platform founded by Arash Asady MIA’14. Emcee is on a mission to inspire the next generation of investors. Roger-Nathanial-Ashby-OpenWise Learning.jpg Roger Nathanial Ashby MPA-DP 17 OpenWise Learning is a youth development organization focused on STEM education, but through the focus of social justice tara-b.jpg Tara Badri MIA 13 Tara Badri graduated in 2013 with an MIA and concentration in Economic and Political Development. She is the CEO and co-founder of Dommett Analytics, a technology company that uses artificial... LaVonda-Baldwind.jpg LaVonda Baldwin MIA 16 LaVonda Baldwin (MIA ’16) praises the relationships she has developed at SIPA—with classmates, professors, and administrators alike. Marcello-Bonatto.jpg Marcello Bonatto MPA 15 Re:Coded was started by Marcello Bonatto MPA’15 to provide computer-based training to youth in conflict-affected areas and prepare them become technology leaders. entrepreneur-alice-bosley.jpg Alice Bosley MIA 17 The mission of this incubator is not just to grow new businesses but to empower people to rebuild their livelihoods and contribute to the growing economies of their communities. Mehemed_Bougsea_ThinkiT.jpg Mehemed Bougsea MPA-DP 17 Think.iT is based in Tunisia where 57% are unemployed and where the local economy can not produce jobs in the fields that match student talent. Richard-Brookshire.jpg Richard Brookshire MPA 16 Richard Brookshire (MPA ’16) wants to use what he learned at SIPA to ensure that people in communities of color feel included in government processes. He chose SIPA because he “wanted to be among... Antoine-Cocle.jpg Antoine Cocle MPA 12 Kaya Impacto is an impact investment consulting firm started by Antoine Cocle MPA’15 to help social entrepreneurs raise capital to grow and scale their businesses — and impact. Massimiliano-Costa.jpg Massimiliano Costa MIA 11 Share The Meal is an award-winning app and an initiative of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP). WFP is the world’s largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger. With just a tap on their smartphones, users can donate as little as 50 cents (the global average cost to feed a child) and feed a child for a day. entrepreneur-mariana-costa-checa.jpg Mariana Costa Checa MPA-DP 13 In three years, Laboratoria has had over 800 graduates who go on to have three times the average income than they did at their previous employment. Shanna-Crumley.jpg Shanna Crumley MPA 18 Bitae Technologies was co-founded by Shanna Crumley MIA'18 and Gemma Torres-Vives MPA’18 and is a technology platform for refugees and other vulnerable populations to carry their skills and experiences with them in a secure, verified portfolio — essentially a “digital CV” for the 21st century. Philippe Dauba-P MIA07.jpg Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce MIA 07 From France, Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce graduated in 2007 with an MIA degree focusing on International Finance and Business. He is now Executive Director - Senior Economist, Global Geopolitical... glenn-denning-may-2014.jpg Glenn Denning Director Christopher-DeRusha.jpg Christopher DeRusha MIA 09 Pages 1 2 3 4 Next Last Search SIPA Stories Type of Profile Degree Program Concentration Keyword Type of Profile Alumni Faculty Director Student Degree Program Master of International Affairs MPA in Economic Policy Management Master of Public Administration Executive MPA MPA in Environmental Science and Policy MPA in Development Practice PhD in Sustainable Development MPA in Global Leadership Concentration International Security Policy Energy and Environment International Finance and Economic Policy Economic and Political Development Human Rights & Humanitarian Policy Urban and Social Policy Alumni Global Social Entrepreneurs Michal-Alter.jpg SIPA Alumni Changing the World…. One Start-Up Venture At a Time Read Profiles Share This Director MDP Video of Director MDP Director Perspective SIPA is the first program to do a Masters in Development Practice. Glenn Denning, Director Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216