Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'H': Hankamer School of Business The home page for the Hankamer School of Business. Harding Black Collection and Archive The mission of Baylor University's Harding Black Ceramic Collection & Archive is to encourage and support future research and scholarship in the ceramic arts in a manner that celebrates Harding Black's contributions to the development of 20th century American ceramics, the impeccable standards by which he lived, and his selfless commitment to furthering human knowledge and experience. Health Services Students have access to unlimited visits to the Baylor University Medical Clinic for diagnosis and treatment of injuries and illnesses. Health, Human Performance, and Recreation, Department of The Department of HHPR has been blessed with a long history of outstanding faculty who have been dedicated to teaching and mentoring students, serving their university and profession, and contributing to scholarly activities. Hearn Innovators Series The Hearn Innovators in Christian Music Series, made possible by an endowment created through the generosity of Billy Ray Hearn, is designed to bring innovators in the field of Christian music to Baylor's campus and facilitate close interaction between the guest presenter and Baylor's students. These special visitors may be involved in the practice, creation, or study of Christian Music. Presenters are on campus for a three- to four-day residency and are available to speak in classes, make public presentations, and visit with students in small group settings. Heart of Texas Regional History Fair The Heart of Texas Regional History Fair (HOTRHF) is a two-day competition for Central Texas students interested in history. Help Desk The home page of the Information Technology Services Help Desk. HelpDesk+ HelpDesk+ is Baylor’s one-stop solution for all things tech. Faculty, staff, and students will find hardware support, software solutions, DUO assistance, password resets, technology checkouts, and much more on the Garden Level of Moody Memorial Library. History, Department of The home page of the History department. Hodges Financial Markets Center Made possible by a generous donation from Don and Ruth Buchholz, the Hodges Financial Markets Center is a state-of-the-art classroom that simulates the environment of an investment firm. The facility serves as the classroom for the Practicum in Portfolio Management course for the student-managed Philip M. Dorr Alumni and Friends Endowed Investment Fund, currently valued at approximately $7 million. Home Software (Including Anti-Virus Software) Baylor Faculty, Staff and Students can download selected software for their home computers from this site. Homecoming The official home page of Baylor University Homecoming. Honors College The Honors College incorporates the Honors Program, University Scholars, Baylor Interdisciplinary Core and the Great Texts program. An office of national and international scholarships assists Baylor students in applying for prestigious graduate scholarships. Honors Program The Honors Program, established in 1959, is designed to enhance and enrich the academic experience of talented, highly motivated students at Baylor University. Honors Residential College The HRC provides housing and programming for Baylor students enrolled in any of the Honors College units: the HONORS PROGRAM, the UNIVERSITY SCHOLARS PROGRAM, the GREAT TEXTS PROGRAM, and the BAYLOR INTERDISCIPLINARY CORE. Housing Technology Campus Living & Learning realizes that technology plays a crucial rule in residents’ success at Baylor. Below you will find helpful information about the digital offerings in your room, how to connect or register devices, and where to find technology help. Human Resources Human Resources is dedicated to supporting the mission and vision of Baylor University by delivering human resource solutions with professional excellence and Christian commitment. Human Sciences and Design The Department of Human Sciences and Design was established at Baylor University in 1933 and offers six majors. Humanities Research Fellows An interdisciplinary research-oriented major for an energetic cohort of students interested in making a difference in the world through the study of the humanities. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'H': Hamerly,Greg Henderson,Johnny Hyde,Truell Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678