Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Registrar's Office Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Registrar's OfficeOpen main menu Close Open search Home Registration Payment Records Transfer Graduation Calendars Forms Faculty & Staff Resources Back Faculty & Staff Resources ARGOS FERPA Forms Grading Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Registration re-jə-ˈstrā-shən | noun Adding courses and caffeine to your online shopping cart Essential Steps to Register Below are the three key steps each student should take to ensure they register for the right classes at the right times. No one knows the quickest and most efficient path toward graduation than your major advisor. We recommend you start there every semester. 1 Meet with Your Advisor Your major advisor knows the ins and outs of your degree. They know which classes you should take and the order you should take them to make sure you graduate at a pace that fits your schedule. Schedule an appointment with your advisor before you begin registering for courses. Show more Additional Topics Your Advisor will Help You Cover Resolving Holds Selecting Courses Understanding Deadlines Degree Works 2 Register for classes Once registration opens and you’ve created a Degree Works plan with your advisor, you can reference it from Banner and register. It only takes a few minutes because you’ve already completed the bulk of the work. Show More Additional Guides and Topics about Registration College Scheduler new! Banner Solve Common Registration Errors Waitlisting Course Types and Durations Adjusting a Variable Credit Course 3 Pay Tuition and Fees If you don’t pay your tuition and fees before the deadline, you may be dropped from your registered classes or incur late fees. Use the TouchNet system 24/7 to view your balance and pay any remaining dues. Show More Additional Payment Help Tuition & fee rates Payment options Nonpayment drop deadlines Upcoming Deadlines 03 SEP Instructor’s signature required to add a class Sep 3-19: Instructor’s signature required to add a class for General Session (14-Week Session) 19 SEP Last Day to Add/Drop Classes Last Day to Add/Drop Classes (including audits) without notation on transcript for General Session (14-Week Session) 31 OCT Last Day to Withdraw from Classes Last Day to Withdraw from Classes ("W" on transcript) for General Session (14-Week Session) 31 OCT Last Day to Change to Pass/Fail Option Last Day to Change to Pass/Fail Option for General Session (14-Week Session) All Dates & Deadlines Please see the USU Catalog for all dates and deadlines. Registration Links Find Your Advisor. Register through College Scheduler . Pay Balance. Still Have Questions? Review our frequently asked questions or contact us if you need answers to your questions about registration. Still have questions? Contact us to provide feedback about this page or ask a question. If you see this don't fill out this input box. *Name *Email Address Page *Questions or Comments Submit Privacy Notice USU Registrar's Office CONTACT Us Taggart Student Center Room 246 1600 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-1600 Email: registrar@usu.edu Phone: (435) 797-1116 Fax: (435) 797-1110 Processes How to Register Tuition & Payment Graduation How to Transfer RECORDS & CREDITS Update Records Access Records Share or Restrict Access Transfer Credits Degree Works Help Registration FAQ Tuition & Payment FAQ Graduation FAQ All Frequently Asked Questions Forms Assessment Faculty & Staff ARGOS FERPA Forms Grading Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page