Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES COMMUNICATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 COM 200 Introduction to Communication (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces theories and research in communication. Explores the myriad ways scholars approach fundamental issues of contemporary human communication. Focuses on theories and research of communication (e.g. relational, group, political, cultural, and international). Acts as a gateway to knowledge about the communication discipline. View course details in MyPlan: COM 200 COM 202 Introduction to Communication II (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces students to four core principles that undergird the study and practice of communication - communication literacy, research inquiry, theories and concepts, and community engagement. Principles discussed and developed in the context of social interaction, rhetoric and critical studies, and communication and culture. View course details in MyPlan: COM 202 COM 210 Introductory Communication Topics (5, max. 10) Introduction to a specified area of communication scholarship. View course details in MyPlan: COM 210 COM 220 Introduction to Public Speaking (5) I&S/VLPA Designed to increase competence in public speaking and the critique of public speaking. Emphasizes choice and organization of material, sound reasoning, audience analysis, and delivery. View course details in MyPlan: COM 220 COM 231 Introduction to Rhetoric (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces students to the over two thousand year old discipline of rhetoric. Through contemporary examples of texts and images from politics and popular culture, students will explore concepts such as: the public, identity, persuasion, difference, and ethics. View course details in MyPlan: COM 231 COM 233 Introduction to Language and Society (5) VLPA, DIV Evans, Wassink Introduces the study of sociolects, the varieties of language that arise from differences in cultural and societal groups, often reflective of power inequalities. Raises awareness of the role that society and the individual play in shaping sociolects via the systematic observation and critical discussion of linguistic phenomena. Offered: jointly with ANTH 233/LING 233; A. View course details in MyPlan: COM 233 COM 234 Public Debate (5) VLPA/I&S Examines public debate in a democracy by developing a rhetorical perspective of public argument and skills to evaluate debates critically. Develops an understanding of rhetoric, values, audiences, tests of reasoning, and sources of information. Sharpens critical skills and applies them to contemporary controversies in the public sphere. View course details in MyPlan: COM 234 COM 238 Rhetoric and Popular Culture (5) VLPA Explores the rhetorical dimensions of popular culture (e.g., film, television, music, advertising, and video games) and their important, albeit often tacit, political and social implications. Themes include the ways popular culture shapes civic life, the influence of popular culture on identity, and the relationship between commerce and culture. View course details in MyPlan: COM 238 COM 270 Interpersonal Communication (5) VLPA/I&S Introductory course on face-to-face communication in social and personal relationships including acquaintanceships, friendships, romantic partnerships, and both hated and loved ones. Learn to maximize communicative effectiveness in relationships with knowledge of how communication functions. View course details in MyPlan: COM 270 COM 289 Communication Power and Difference (5) I&S, DIV Explores how communication - from face-to-face to mass media messages - reinforces or challenges conceptions of power, privilege, and difference along racial, ethnic, gender, sexual, class, ability, religion, and other important lines. Examines how communication practices, particularly media, shape inequality as well as our understanding of ourselves and the world. View course details in MyPlan: COM 289 COM 292 Study Abroad: Communication I (1-10, max. 15) Communication courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program. Content varies and must be individually evaluated. Recommended: COM 200. View course details in MyPlan: COM 292 COM 294 Multimedia Skills Workshop (1-3, max. 5) Hands-on workshops addressing specific multimedia and/or journalism applications and skills. Topics vary. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: COM 294 COM 300 Basic Concepts of New Media (5) VLPA/I&S Provides a comprehensive examination of the effects of new, digital media on interpersonal communication, media industries, and media culture. Emphasis on economic, social, political, and aesthetic implications. Provides limited experience with computer-based media. No prior technical computer experience assumed. View course details in MyPlan: COM 300 COM 301 Navigating Information Networks for Mass Media (5) I&S Builds familiarity with social media networks and social network analysis, a quantitative methods of analysis that looks at relationships between actors and patterns within networks. No prior programming or statistical experience beyond high school math assumed. View course details in MyPlan: COM 301 COM 302 The Cultural Impact of Information Technology (5) VLPA/I&S Utilizing approaches from the history of technology, cultural studies, and literary theory, seeks to analyze the cultural and social impact of information technology. Considers how information technologies impact our relationships with others, our concept(s) of self, and the structure of the communities to which we belong. Offered: jointly with CHID 370. View course details in MyPlan: COM 302 COM 303 Social Effects of Technology and Social Media (5) I&S Examines the impact of information/communication technology and social media on individuals and society. Adopts a variety of theoretical, empirical, and popular understandings to assess how technology may bring about social change. Recommended: COM 300. View course details in MyPlan: COM 303 COM 304 The Press and Politics in the United States (5) I&S Journalists' role in elections and public policy. Relationship between news coverage and political campaigns. Study and analysis of local political newswriting, reporting, and response by local and state political figures. Extensive off-campus experience included. Offered: jointly with POL S 304. View course details in MyPlan: COM 304 COM 305 The Politics of Mass Communication in America (5) I&S Role of mass audiences in politics from the standpoint of the communication strategies used to shape their political involvement. Topics include: social structure and political participation, political propaganda and persuasion, the political uses of public opinion, and the mass media and politics. Offered: jointly with POL S 305. View course details in MyPlan: COM 305 COM 306 Media, Society, and Political Identity (5) I&S Explores how society and culture are both represented in and shaped by communication technologies and media content. Media include film, advertising, news, entertainment television, talk shows, and the Internet. Explores how media represent and affect individual identity, values, and political engagement. Offered: jointly with POL S 306. View course details in MyPlan: COM 306 COM 320 Advanced Public Speaking (5) VLPA/I&S Practice in preparation and presentation of a variety of types of public speeches based on study of their structure and form; emphasis on organization and delivery. Prerequisite: COM 220. View course details in MyPlan: COM 320 COM 321 Communications in International Relations (5) I&S Looks at communications in relations between international groups and states. Examines the range of functions and roles communication media play in international affairs, global issues, and intergroup relations. Also examines the strategic use of communications by various groups. Offered: jointly with POL S 330. View course details in MyPlan: COM 321 COM 322 Global Communication (5) I&S Introduction to the history, purpose, channels, content, technologies, policy, and regulation of international communications systems. Issues covered include disparities in media development between post-industrial and developing nations, imbalances in international news and information flow, and the emergence of global communications. Offered: jointly with POL S 329. View course details in MyPlan: COM 322 COM 329 Rhetoric of Social and Political Movements (5) VLPA/I&S Inquiry into the rhetoric of social and political movements; emphasis on investigation of persuasive discourse; examination of the nonverbal symbols of persuasion. View course details in MyPlan: COM 329 COM 330 Rhetoric of Science (5) VLPA/I&S Ceccarelli Examines how scientists use rhetoric to communicate with each other and with various publics, and now nonscientists use rhetoric to argue about science and its effects in the public sphere. View course details in MyPlan: COM 330 COM 332 Classical Rhetorical Theory (5) VLPA Investigates how rhetoric has been theorized and taught since antiquity. Focuses on key thinkers and texts in the rhetorical tradition. Students learn to describe rhetorical theories of key thinkers, explain how rhetoric was understood and practiced in different historical societies, and explain how beliefs about rhetoric have changed over time. View course details in MyPlan: COM 332 COM 333 Contemporary Rhetorical Theory (5) VLPA Introduces major Western theories about the relationship between humans and their symbol systems. Emphasizes themes that have preoccupied 20th and 21st Century thinkers on the subject of rhetoric: the public, identity, ethics, difference, the "masses", and persuasion. View course details in MyPlan: COM 333 COM 334 Essentials of Argument (5) I&S/VLPA Argument as a technique in the investigation of social problems; evidence, proof, refutation, persuasion; training in argumentative speaking. View course details in MyPlan: COM 334 COM 336 Speech Consulting (1, max. 5) Matt McGarrity Practicum for UW Speaking center. Enrolled students consult three hours a week in the Center. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: COM 336 COM 339 The Business of Media in the Digital Age (5) I&S Examines the production of media within changing social, technological, and economic contexts. Emphasizes how new technologies can change the market for media goods and media experiences and the ways in which mediated production pervades contemporary economic life. View course details in MyPlan: COM 339 COM 340 History of Mass Communication (5) I&S History and development of communication from prehistoric times; rise of mass media; political and economic context of newspapers, radio, film, and television. View course details in MyPlan: COM 340 COM 343 Effects of Mass Communication (5) I&S Effects of mass communication on individuals and society. Relevant theories applied to research evidence, addressing such topics as effects of stereotypes, violent and sexual imagery, and persuasive messages on our knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors. View course details in MyPlan: COM 343 COM 351 Interviewing Principles and Practices (5) VLPA/I&S Interviewing principles and practices, with emphasis on information gathering, selection, and persuasive interviews. Purposes and types of interviews, structure of interviews, and influence of communication patterns on interview outcomes. View course details in MyPlan: COM 351 COM 359 Writing for Mass Media (5) I&S Training in gathering information through interviews and observation and from written record and other public sources. Practice in organizing and writing this information for presentation in a mass medium such as a newspaper, newsletter, or magazine. View course details in MyPlan: COM 359 COM 360 Foundations of Journalism and Public Interest Communication (5) I&S Introduction to multimedia content-creation for journalists and public-interest communicators serving the public, nonprofits and other community entities. View course details in MyPlan: COM 360 COM 361 Advanced Journalism and Public Interest Communication (4) I&S Advanced multimedia content-creation for journalists and public-interest communicators serving the public, nonprofits and other community entities Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 361 COM 362 Community Journalism and Public Interest Communication: News Lab (5) I&S Content creation for community clients and partners. Prerequisite: COM 361. View course details in MyPlan: COM 362 COM 364 Media Responsibility in a Diverse Society (5) I&S, DIV Examines important cultural roles of journalists and media makers in a society rooted in systems of privilege. Students examine their own values and identities, interrogate media conventions, and develop a deeper understanding of how organizational decisions and social systems affect media representations. Prerequisite: COM 361. View course details in MyPlan: COM 364 COM 370 Family Communication (5) I&S Survey of current theories and research on family communication. Questions about what it means to be a "family." Major theories that guide family communication. Looks at the course of family life, family structures, types, and processes. Recommended: COM 270. View course details in MyPlan: COM 370 COM 373 Communication in Small Groups (5) VLPA/I&S Discussion as an everyday community activity, with emphasis on the informal cooperative decision-making methods of committee, conference, and roundtable groups. View course details in MyPlan: COM 373 COM 374 Perspectives on Language (5) VLPA/I&S Study of language and meaning, and survey of several influential modern approaches, including the semantic, general semantic, behavioral, and analytic philosophical. Relates theories of language and meaning to the study of speech communication. View course details in MyPlan: COM 374 COM 375 Communication Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S Ethical problems in interpersonal and public speech communication. Alternative ways of evaluating and responding to moral problems in a variety of communication situations. View course details in MyPlan: COM 375 COM 376 Nonverbal Communication (5) VLPA/I&S Reviews the nature of nonverbal communication as part of the human message system. Discusses research on the types of cues that are part of the nonverbal system, reviews some communicative functions allowed by nonverbal cues (e.g., emotional expressions, relational messages, deception, coordination, or interaction), and ties nonverbal communication to language. View course details in MyPlan: COM 376 COM 377 Organizational Communication (5) VLPA/I&S K. Foot Surveys organizational communication theories, models, and processes. Students learn to apply these in organizational communication exercises, analyze cases, and practice communication and leadership strategies for effective organizing. View course details in MyPlan: COM 377 COM 378 Social Approaches to Interpersonal Communication (5) I&S V. Manusov Investigates interpersonal and relational concepts through a social lens. As students talk about important concepts/processes in the study of personal interaction, they will be looking at them as products and enactments of values and beliefs. They look at the challenges in interpersonal relating and interacting as well as at ways in which these challenges can be negotiated more successfully. Prerequisite: COM 270 View course details in MyPlan: COM 378 COM 381 Content Analysis (5) Introduces content analysis, a research method used in the discipline of communication. Students work in groups to design and execute a content analysis. View course details in MyPlan: COM 381 COM 382 Social Scientific Approaches to Communication Research (5) I&S Comprehensive introduction to research methods employed in basic and applied communication research, including sample surveys, content analysis, experimentation, and elementary statistics. View course details in MyPlan: COM 382 COM 383 Qualitative Communication Research Methods (5) I&S Introduces students to a range of qualitative research methods for analyzing communication. Students design and execute a qualitative communication research project. View course details in MyPlan: COM 383 COM 389 Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media (5) I&S, DIV Introduction to media representations of gender, race, and sexuality. Offered: jointly with AES 389/GWSS 389. View course details in MyPlan: COM 389 COM 392 Study Abroad: Communication II (1-10, max. 15) Communication courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program. Content varies and must be individually evaluated. Recommended: COM 200. View course details in MyPlan: COM 392 COM 395 Communication Internship (1/2, max. 5) Faculty-supervised study of communication principles in internship contexts. Readings to aid students in observations of communication concepts combined with individualized reading structured around topics of interest for each student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: COM 395 COM 403 Dark Sides of Digital Media (5) I&S Addresses the "dark sides" of digital media - and ways to mitigate them - in these realms: intrapersonal, interpersonal/relational, work/organizational, economic, political/military, environmental, and health. Students produce and analyze texts and images critiquing digital media, and policies and practices aimed at mitigating detrimental uses/outcomes. View course details in MyPlan: COM 403 COM 407 Communication Technology and Politics (5) I&S Employs some core concepts of political communication and theories of democracy to examine the emerging role of information and communication technologies in candidate and issue campaigning; online voting; protest and advocacy movements; law-making and electronic governance in the United States and internationally. Offered: jointly with POL S 451. View course details in MyPlan: COM 407 COM 411 Political Communication Seminar (5, max. 10) I&S Contemporary topics studying how communication affects citizen engagement with public life. Offered: jointly with POL S 454. View course details in MyPlan: COM 411 COM 414 Mass Media and Public Opinion (5) I&S Examines the foundations of the idea of public opinion in a democratic environment and the role of mass communication in the organization, implementation, and control of that opinion. Considers these relationships from the perspectives of societal elites, media, and citizens. Offered: jointly with POL S 452. View course details in MyPlan: COM 414 COM 418 Communication and the Environment (5) I&S Examines how communication about the environment influences beliefs, values, and treatment of the natural world. Topics include new coverage of the environment; media strategies and rhetoric used by activists, government agencies, and industry to address environmental issues; representations of the environment in popular culture; and/or political argumentation about environmental policy. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 418. View course details in MyPlan: COM 418 COM 420 Comparative Media Systems (5) I&S Provides students an understanding of policies that shape national communication processes and systems. Uses comparative analysis to identify both similarities and differences among media structures of nations at different levels of development. Primary emphasis on broadcast media. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 419/POL S 468. View course details in MyPlan: COM 420 COM 423 Communication and Social Change (5) I&S Examines both theory and application involved in using communications media as a tool for addressing political, social, and economic development issues. Utilizes a case study approach to look at localized applications of traditional and new communications tools in the pursuit of sustainable development. View course details in MyPlan: COM 423 COM 426 International Media Images (5) I&S Ways in which media construct images of international peoples and events. Develops a set of critical tools for assessing media portrayals of international affairs and cultures. View course details in MyPlan: COM 426 COM 428 The Media and Peace (5) I&S Investigates the complex relationships among the media, journalistic practice, and our understanding and pursuit of peace. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 428. View course details in MyPlan: COM 428 COM 431 Rhetorical Criticism (5) VLPA/I&S Study of approaches to rhetorical inquiry that aid in the description, analysis, interpretation, and evaluation of discourse. Applies various critical models to a chosen artifact. View course details in MyPlan: COM 431 COM 434 Argumentation Theory (5) I&S/VLPA View course details in MyPlan: COM 434 COM 435 Historic American Public Address (5) VLPA/I&S Rhetorical criticism of historical public speeches, essays, and declarations. Includes readings of public texts in their historical and political context to increase understanding of those texts, their rhetorical construction, and the culture from which they arose. Covers the beginnings of the nation to the middle of the twentieth century. View course details in MyPlan: COM 435 COM 436 Contemporary American Public Address (5) VLPA/I&S Rhetorical criticism of contemporary public messages. Includes reading of public texts in their context to increase understanding of those texts, their rhetorical construction, and the culture from which they arose. Covers mid-twentieth century to the present. View course details in MyPlan: COM 436 COM 440 Mass Media Law (5) I&S Survey of laws and regulations that affect the print and broadcast media. Includes material on First Amendment, libel, invasion of privacy, freedom of information, copyright, obscenity, advertising and broadcast regulation, and matters relating to press coverage of the judicial system. Offered: jointly with POL S 461. View course details in MyPlan: COM 440 COM 442 History of Media Technology and Regulation (5) I&S Impact of pre-1980s media technologies - printing, telecommunications, broadcasting, photography, and more - on individuals and institutions, especially government, business, and the mass media. How laws and policies have changed to govern new media forms. View course details in MyPlan: COM 442 COM 443 Indigenous Films, Sovereign Visions (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV D. HART, L. ROSS Explores fiction, documentary, experimental film, and digital media by indigenous artists from around the world. Focuses on personal, political, and cultural expression. Issues include media and sovereignty movements, political economy, language revitalization, the politics of decolonization, and indigenous aesthetics. Offered: jointly with AIS 443. View course details in MyPlan: COM 443 COM 444 Public Relations and Society (5) I&S Overview of issues, strategies, and role of public relations professionals in various areas of American society, including media relations, government relations, community affairs, and consumer relations. View course details in MyPlan: COM 444 COM 445 Journalism and Literature (5) VLPA/I&S Explores the relationship between journalism and fiction writing in the United States. Examines writers who began their careers as journalists and forged a fiction-writing philosophy related to what they learned in journalism. Readings in fiction and journalism. View course details in MyPlan: COM 445 COM 452 Crisis Communications (5) I&S Study of the functions of communications professionals during crises. Covers public relations professionals as advocates for organizations and companies in crisis and the news media as advocates of the mass public. Discussion of cases. View course details in MyPlan: COM 452 COM 456 Networked Journalism (5) I&S Adrienne Marie Russell Transformation from mass-mediated journalism to networked journalism, with emphasis on experiments in new-style news and the changing relationship between journalists and public. View course details in MyPlan: COM 456 COM 457 Journalism Portfolio (1) I&S Students assemble an online portfolio of academic, professional, and creative work. The portfolio project serves as vehicle for students to engage in self-assessment about their professional and academic growth and to assist them in career planning. May not be repeated if a grade of 0.7 earned. Prerequisite: COM 362. View course details in MyPlan: COM 457 COM 458 Reporting Global Issues (5, max. 10) I&S, DIV Practicum in the journalism that examines or localizes international trends or international developments in one or more of the following subject areas: health, medicine, science, politics, environment, culture, demographics, or business. Focus of course varies by term. Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 458 COM 459 Narrative Journalism (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces the rigorous reporting and literary writing techniques of narrative journalism. Concentrates on producing nonfiction narrative articles for publication. Offered: jointly with CHID 459. View course details in MyPlan: COM 459 COM 460 Special Reporting Topics (4, max. 8) I&S Topics vary. Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 460 COM 461 Data Reporting (5) I&S Introduction to reporting with data. Includes locating data, requesting data sets, analyzing data and telling visual written stories from data. Students examine ethical and technical challenges these tools present to media and society. Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 461 COM 463 Copy Editing for Media (5) I&S Focus on editing copy in a variety of media contexts, covering grammar, style, headlines, use of photos and captions, social media, online and mobile presentation, and editing relationships in a team. Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 463 COM 464 Writing with Voice (5) VLPA Focuses on point-of-view writing that challenges assumptions of the omniscient voice and pushes traditional journalist boundaries. Students are encouraged to experiment with transparency and authenticity in their tone and - through a series of written assignments - explore points of intersection between their own experiences and larger issues. Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 464 COM 465 State Government Communication (12) I&S Participation in the state legislative session winter quarter. Students work as reporters for news outlets or are embedded in communication teams in state agencies. Students receive a stipend and live in Olympia. Application required. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: COM 465 COM 467 Feature Writing (5) VLPA Focuses on the many types of newspaper and magazine articles that do not fall into the category of hard news, including histories and backgrounders, how-to and explanatory, consumer information, statistical pieces, first-person, and participatory. Includes practice in writing these forms. How to market freelance manuscripts. Prerequisite: COM 360. View course details in MyPlan: COM 467 COM 468 Media Ethics (5) I&S Explores ethical issues and ethical decision-making as they pertain to journalistic and media practices. View course details in MyPlan: COM 468 COM 470 Discourse: Analyzing Talk and Texts (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV A critical and practical introduction to contemporary theories/methods in discourse analysis: how verbal communication (together with visual communication) is used in conversational talk and mediatized texts to construct identities and relationships; and how power and ideology are reproduced through these everyday social interactions. Offered: jointly with LING 470. View course details in MyPlan: COM 470 COM 471 Persuasion (5) VLPA/I&S Analysis of the ways in which beliefs, values, attitudes, and behavior are deliberately influenced through communication. View course details in MyPlan: COM 471 COM 472 Empirical Approaches to Interpersonal Communication (5) I&S Examination of theories and research on the development and deterioration of interpersonal relationships. Emphasis on the nature of interpersonal interaction, the role of language and nonverbal communication in relationships, functional and dysfunctional interaction patterns, and the dynamics of interpersonal networks. View course details in MyPlan: COM 472 COM 474 Communication, Conflict, and Cooperation (5) VLPA/I&S Role of communication in resolving informal conflicts and in facilitating interpersonal and intergroup cooperation. Review of empirical literature. In-class simulations and exercises. View course details in MyPlan: COM 474 COM 478 Intercultural Communication (5) I&S Investigates intercultural communication theory and its application for varying levels of human interaction: interpersonal, intergroup, and international. View course details in MyPlan: COM 478 COM 481 Online Communities (5) I&S Benjamin Mako Hill Communities formed through digital communication networks and social media. How people build communities, engage in collaboration and conflict, and also develop communities in online environments. Involves study and use of online communities. View course details in MyPlan: COM 481 COM 482 Interpersonal and Computer Mediated Communication (5) I&S Katy E. Pearce Examines how individuals and groups use mediated channels like social media, texting, and video chat to communicate interpersonally. Uses a variety of theoretical, empirical, and popular understandings to critically assess how mediated interpersonal communication influences our self-presentation, our self-expression, our relationships, and our world. Recommended: COM 300. View course details in MyPlan: COM 482 COM 483 Communication Approaches to the Study of War (5) I&S/VLPA View course details in MyPlan: COM 483 COM 484 Cultural Codes in Communication (5) VLPA/I&S Social and cultural codes in interpersonal communication, with special reference to contemporary American subcultural groups and their communication patterns. View course details in MyPlan: COM 484 COM 485 Fieldwork in Communication Studies (5) VLPA/I&S Theory and practice of participant observation, intensive interviewing, and discourse analysis in the study of communicative practices. Prerequisite: COM 484. View course details in MyPlan: COM 485 COM 486 Communication and Culture in Rome: Study Abroad (12) VLPA/I&S Explores the historical and contemporary connections between Rome culture and communication. Through intensive fieldwork abroad, students acquire skills of observation and understanding that can be applied to navigate intercultural experiences and reflect on their influence on various interactions. View course details in MyPlan: COM 486 COM 487 Representing Latinidad: Chicanxs and Latinxs in the Media (5) DIV Carmen Gonzalez, Andrea Otanez Class focuses on a critical analysis of dominant/indie media texts to understand how Chicanxs, specifically, and Latinxs, generally, have been represented and represent themselves in mass media through time. As we examine representations, we will ask what representations have stayed the same, changed and why it matters to cultural critics and media scholars. View course details in MyPlan: COM 487 COM 488 Race, Gender, and Power in Asian American Media (5) I&S, DIV Examines the cultural, political, and social facets of Asian American media since 1915 within such key issues as racial and sexist stereotypes, white privilege and hegemony, identity, and agency and empowerment. Informed by critical theories of race and ethnicity. View course details in MyPlan: COM 488 COM 489 Black Cultural Studies (5) I&S, DIV Examines how images of blackness have been (re)constructed through identity formation and entrenched inequality. Topics include black women's bodies, black men's bodies, blackface minstrelsy, black queer studies, black power, and black hybridities. Offered: jointly with AES 489/GWSS 489. View course details in MyPlan: COM 489 COM 490 Representing Beyond the Binaries: Mixing Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media (5) I&S, DIV Joeseph Cultural studies approach to examining the mixed formations that race, sexuality, and gender take in the contemporary United States media. Draws upon multi-disciplinary scholarship in examination of the media. Offered: jointly with AES 490/GWSS 486. View course details in MyPlan: COM 490 COM 492 Study Abroad: Communication III (1-10, max. 15) Communication courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program. Content varies and must be individually evaluated. Recommended: COM 200. View course details in MyPlan: COM 492 COM 494 Careers in Communication (1) Helps students prepare for careers in communication. Focuses on identification of key skills, creating an effective resume, articulating interests and experience, doing informational interviews, and creating a professional-style web profile and website. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: COM 494 COM 495 Special Topics in Communication (2-5, max. 15) Lecture, seminar, and/or team study. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: COM 495 COM 496 Honors Seminar (5) VLPA/I&S Preparation for researching and writing senior honors thesis. View course details in MyPlan: COM 496 COM 497 Honors Thesis (1-15, max. 15) VLPA/I&S Researching and writing honors thesis. View course details in MyPlan: COM 497 COM 498 Independent Research (1-5, max. 10) Work on research projects designed and conducted by undergraduate students. View course details in MyPlan: COM 498 COM 499 Directed Research (1-5, max. 10) Work on research projects designed by faculty members. View course details in MyPlan: COM 499 COM 500 Communication Theory Development (5) Covers the philosophy behind theory development, discusses the basic components of theories, and reviews significant theoretical contributions in communication from social scientific and humanistic traditions. Introduces students to the process of conceptualization and theory design through reading and discussion of relevant bodies of communication scholarship. View course details in MyPlan: COM 500 COM 501 Methods of Inquiry (5) Overviews some of the most important methods of inquiry used to investigate communication phenomena. Includes textual criticism, content analysis, ethnography, experimentation, survey research, and historical approaches. Explores the utility of different methods for investigating research topics, defining and measuring concepts, reading texts, and investigating theories. View course details in MyPlan: COM 501 COM 502 Communication Scholarship and Public Life (5) Examines potential connections between communication scholarship and government, markets, civil society, and the general public. View course details in MyPlan: COM 502 COM 511 Content Analysis (5) Content analysis as a technique for making inferences from texts. Includes quantitative, qualitative, and computer-assisted approaches to analysis. View course details in MyPlan: COM 511 COM 512 Critical, Social, and Practice-Based Approaches (5) Explores approaches to communication research developed from understandings of human communication as inherently social, grounded in tool-mediated action, and interwoven with power relations. Covers a range of theories that are associated with these approaches, and the implications of these theories for methods of data collection and analysis. View course details in MyPlan: COM 512 COM 513 Fieldwork Research Methods (5-, max. 10) Methods of fieldwork research in communication studies, with emphasis on participant observation, ethnography, and discourse analysis. View course details in MyPlan: COM 513 COM 514 Critical Discourse Analysis (5) VLPA Introduction to systematic analysis of linguistic and visual discourse in face-to-face and mediatized talk and texts; critical examination of the reproduction of power, control, and ideology through linguistic and related semiotic practices of everyday life. View course details in MyPlan: COM 514 COM 515 Rhetorical Criticism (5) History and method of rhetorical criticism. Application of critical standards to various rhetorical artifacts. View course details in MyPlan: COM 515 COM 517 Survey Research (5) Faculty-directed project in survey research in which basic principles of survey design, including sampling, observation, measurement, data analysis, and data interpretation, are all applied. Prerequisite: elementary statistics or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: COM 517 COM 518 Cultural Studies Methods (5) Explores the history and methods of cultural studies. Introduces major debates in the field. Applies cultural studies methods to various artifacts. View course details in MyPlan: COM 518 COM 519 Visual Cultural Studies Methods (5) Explores the history and methods of visual culture. Introduces major debates in the field. Applies visual cultural studies methods to various artifacts. View course details in MyPlan: COM 519 COM 520 Statistical Methods in Communication (5) Reviews the steps taken in social scientific research on communication, with emphasis on the conceptualization, operationalization, and analysis of quantifiable variables. Highlights understanding of computer application of univariate and bivariate statistics, focusing on both parametric and nonparametric tests. View course details in MyPlan: COM 520 COM 521 Advanced Statistical Methods in Communication (4) Discusses complexities in quantitative research on communication. Focus on multivariate data design and analysis, including multiple and logistic regression, ANOVA and MANOVA, and factor analysis. Prerequisite: COM 520. View course details in MyPlan: COM 521 COM 522 Comparative Approaches to Social Research (5) Issues of commensurability, equivalence, and ethnocentrism. Explores strategies for producing comparative research. Students gain research-design skills by developing comparative research project proposals. View course details in MyPlan: COM 522 COM 523 Interviewing for Social Research (5) Strategies, issues, and challenges associated with interview-based social research. Issues of validity, ethics, sampling, recruitment; interview design, conduct, and analysis. Students develop and carry out interview-based research projects. View course details in MyPlan: COM 523 COM 525 Community-Based Research Methods (5) Various models of community-based research (CBR), with explicit focus on methodological frameworks that guide such work. Students review collaborative efforts involving non-profits, foundations, and other community organizations, while engaging in their own partnerships and research projects. View course details in MyPlan: COM 525 COM 527 Global Communication Research Methods (5) Methodological issues particular to the design or analysis of research that deals with data from different countries, cultures, or sub-cultures. Prerequisite: COM 501 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: COM 527 COM 528 Designing Internet Research (5) Focuses on designing Internet research, assessing the adaptation of proven methods to Internet tools and environments, and developing new methods in view of particular capacities and characteristics of Internet applications. Legal and ethical aspects of Internet research receive ongoing consideration. View course details in MyPlan: COM 528 COM 529 Research Strategy and Business Practice (5) Empowers students to resolve business debates with empirical findings. Students learn to match research method to question, design valid instruments of data collection, use software to test significance of differences, construct graphs following principles of infosthetics, and ensure persuasiveness of data by defending against common research criticisms. View course details in MyPlan: COM 529 COM 530 Philosophical Issues in Rhetorical and Communication Theory (5) Survey of selected philosophical controversies among speech communication theorists, and analysis of one philosopher's approach to communication. Topics include paradigm descriptions of communication, rhetoric and knowledge, linguistic analysis and communication, hermeneutics and dialogue. View course details in MyPlan: COM 530 COM 531 Rhetoric in Society (5) Selected works of major rhetorical theorists such as Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Campbell, Whately, Perelman, and Burke. Examines how rhetorical themes are responsive to and symptomatic of societal conditions and values. View course details in MyPlan: COM 531 COM 532 Classical Rhetoric (5) Development of the classical tradition in rhetorical theory, criticism, and pedagogy from the sophists to Augustine; analysis of the contributions of major figures and works to that tradition. View course details in MyPlan: COM 532 COM 534 Studies in Contemporary Rhetoric (5) Critical analysis of theories of twentieth-century rhetoric. View course details in MyPlan: COM 534 COM 538 Theories of Communication Technologies (5) B. Hill, K. Pearce Provides a theoretical foundation for study in the area of communication technology by examining different theories of the social, political, and cultural implications of technological change. Takes a broad view of theories of communication innovations, tools, and technologies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: COM 538 COM 539 Theories of Technology and Society (5) Provides an theoretical foundation for study in the area of communication technology and society by examining different contemporary theories of the social, political, and cultural implications of technological change. Takes a broad view of theories of communication innovations, tools, and technologies - including historical, critical, and comparative approaches. View course details in MyPlan: COM 539 COM 540 The Rhetoric of Science (5) Examines selected topics in the rhetoric of science, underscoring the interplay of language, situation, culture, and prior tradition in the quest for exact knowledge of the natural world. Scrutinizes scientific communication in intradisciplinary, interdisciplinary, and extradisciplinary contexts. View course details in MyPlan: COM 540 COM 548 Economics of Digital Communication (5) Critically examines the impact of the Internet and digital technologies on the economy. Focus includes third world countries as well as the United States and other industrialized countries. View course details in MyPlan: COM 548 COM 551 Political Communication (5) Surveys classic works and new directions in political communication, including functionalist, structuralist, constructivist, network, and comparative approaches, reflecting a range of methods. Examines political organizing, electoral and legislative processes, civic (dis)engagement, media and politics, public deliberation and opinion formation, political identify and discourse. Offered: jointly with POL S 551. View course details in MyPlan: COM 551 COM 552 Social Construction of News (5) Examines social, political, economic, technological, and cultural influences on the news. Identifies constraints on journalists and explores how those constraints shape the news and information that journalists and media organizations produce. View course details in MyPlan: COM 552 COM 553 Public Opinion and Communication (5) Conceptual and methodological approaches to public opinion and communication as historical and behavioral phenomena. United States and international perspectives. View course details in MyPlan: COM 553 COM 562 International Communication Systems (5) International communications and contemporary issues that affect the functioning of global communication systems. Interdisciplinary focus. View course details in MyPlan: COM 562 COM 563 Black Cultural Studies (5) Takes a critical approach to studying media representations of blackness. Drawing upon traditions in African studies and cultural studies, students engage through theory and practice by presenting on academic works, historicizing events, and unpacking cultural texts. View course details in MyPlan: COM 563 COM 564 Media, Myth, and Ritual (5) Examines the way media operate in a secular society with many of the characteristics that traditionally have been imputed to spirituality and religion. Analyzes media's mythological and ritualistic function in society by taking an interdisciplinary approach informed by religious studies, cultural studies, journalism, and communication theory. View course details in MyPlan: COM 564 COM 565 Mass Media Structure (5) Research on the structural aspects of mass communication. View course details in MyPlan: COM 565 COM 567 Gender, Race, and Communication (5) Analysis of the role of media in the construction of reality, production processes, and their influence on media representation of women and people of color. Offered: jointly with GWSS 589. View course details in MyPlan: COM 567 COM 568 Mobile Communication and Digital Media (5) Explores impact of mobile technology on social, political, civic, and business spheres. Strategizes how to make "mobile" an integrated part of a broader media strategy. View course details in MyPlan: COM 568 COM 569 Communication Strategies in Virtual Worlds and Games (5) Analyzes potential configurations made possible by interactivity and simulation in virtual worlds and games. Explores applications of this communication medium to education, literacy, and business. View course details in MyPlan: COM 569 COM 570 Organizational Communication (5) Examination of social scientific theory and research on communication in organizations. Topics include quantitative and qualitative approaches to process of organizational communication, function and structure of macro networks, superior-subordinate relationships, and the role of communication in organizational change, development, and effectiveness. View course details in MyPlan: COM 570 COM 571 Theories of Technology and Society (5) Provides a theoretical foundation for study in the area of communication technology and society by examining different contemporary theories of the social, political, and cultural implications of technological change. Takes a broad view of theories of communication innovations, tools, and technologies - including historical, critical, and comparative approaches. View course details in MyPlan: COM 571 COM 576 Interpersonal Communication (5) Social scientific research and theory on the role of communication in developing and maintaining interpersonal relationships. Nature of interpersonal communication, relationship change processes, interpersonal control through communication, and personal communication networks. View course details in MyPlan: COM 576 COM 577 Communication in Small Groups (5) Reviews major small group communication theories and the history of research on small groups. Topics include structuration, democratic decision making, symbolic convergence, and the influence of personality, gender, and ethnicity on group communication. Involves students in original research projects on communication in small group settings. View course details in MyPlan: COM 577 COM 578 Intercultural Communications (5) Manusov, Rivenburgh Focuses on the nature of communication between different cultures, including the processes as they occur on sojourns, immigration, negotiations, and conversations across national boundaries. Specific topics include identity formation and expression, intercultural relationships, stereotyping, prejudice, and group affiliation. View course details in MyPlan: COM 578 COM 579 Family Communication (5) Central theories and major processes as the foundation for family communication. Ideologies that stigmatize and marginalize post-nuclear family types. Covers the three "R's" of (post-nuclear) family theorizing: remaking, resistance, and resilience. View course details in MyPlan: COM 579 COM 580 Nonverbal Communication (5) Reviews primary theories and research on nonverbal communication. Focus on developmental and social aspects of nonverbal cues, including review of communicative functions served by nonverbal channels. Topics include paralinguistic systems, relational messages, deception, acquisition of cue use, and emotional expression. Emphasizes research methods and influences of culture and context. View course details in MyPlan: COM 580 COM 581 Social Production and Distribution of Digital Content (5) Explores theoretical and applied analysis of "user-generated" digital and distribution, as well as their economic cultural impact. Examines specific issues related to monetization and messaging, particularly in storytelling, advertising, campaigning, advocacy, and entertainment. View course details in MyPlan: COM 581 COM 583 Multimedia Storytelling (5, max. 15) Uses videos, photos, audio, and text to communicate through narratives that can be accessed by a worldwide audience via social media distribution. View course details in MyPlan: COM 583 COM 584 Ways of Speaking (5) Theory and literature of the ethnography of communication, with special emphasis on the descriptive-comparative approach to culturally patterned styles of communicative conduct. Offered: jointly with ANTH 584. View course details in MyPlan: COM 584 COM 587 Business Fundamentals in Digital Communications (5) Focuses on business fundamentals within digital communications. Covers marketing and sales; finance and accounting (including ROI); and implementation. Students apply what they learn by building a business plan to gain understanding of the underlying issues facing business to develop relevant strategies and tactics in order to leverage the opportunities and challenges that digital media presents. View course details in MyPlan: COM 587 COM 589 Ethics and Policy Positions for Communicating Across Local and Global Networks (5) Examines the legal, social, political, and policy environments of digital media laws, policies, and ethics around the world. Offers a comparative perspective, which prepares digital media managers to expand into other markets outside their home bases. View course details in MyPlan: COM 589 COM 590 Selected Readings (1-5, max. 10) Selected readings assigned by faculty. View course details in MyPlan: COM 590 COM 591 Independent Research (1-5, max. 10) Research projects designed and led by students with faculty supervision. View course details in MyPlan: COM 591 COM 592 Directed Research (1-5, max. 10) Student participation in faculty-directed research projects. View course details in MyPlan: COM 592 COM 593 Communication Internship (1-5, max. 15) Provides students an opportunity to connect their scholarship with communities outside academia by engaging in a project that uses communication theory to inform practical work. View course details in MyPlan: COM 593 COM 594 Professional Proseminar (1, max. 6) Helps students develop a range of professional competencies. Focuses on a particular topic such as computer-assisted research, technology in the classroom, obtaining funding for research, writing for academic publication, career choices after graduate school, and ethics in research and teaching. View course details in MyPlan: COM 594 COM 596 Communication Pedagogy (1, max. 3) Development of effective teaching and professional skills. Emphasizes interactive teaching, leading discussions, lecturing, planning courses, evaluating resource materials, grading and evaluation, teaching philosophies, and effective classroom management and communications. Required of all graduate students who accept teaching assistantships. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: COM 596 COM 597 Special Topics in Communication (3-5, max. 35) View course details in MyPlan: COM 597 COM 600 Independent Study or Research Project (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Supervisory Committee chairperson. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: COM 600 COM 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: COM 700 COM 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: COM 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022