International Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Students International Students Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students Greek Life International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment International Students International students face a variety of challenges attending school in the states including adjusting to a new culture, new language, and different academic environment. That being said, it is useful to familiarize yourself with the resources that UH have available to make this transition as stress-free as possible. Support on Campus Check out the UH Calendar for events on campus! Many are free or available at a reduced price to students. Take advantage of the free internet on campus to communicate with family and friends back home! Use Skype for cheaper international calling. Familiarize yourself with the International Student and Scholar Services! Become a part of the International Friendship Program to meet families and individuals in the Houston area who are interested in meeting with international students. They can help you learn more about Houston and its rich culture. Visit CAPS if you need to voice your concerns with a trained professional! Culture Shock & Re-Entry Shock Studying in another country can be a very exciting and rewarding experience. However, for some students, the excitement can wane as they struggle with adjusting to their new environment or struggle to adjust upon their return to their home country. Other Challenges Many of the challenges listed below affect international students. These are just a few topics a counselor may be able to help you with. Loneliness or homesickness Difficulties with roommate(s) Adjusting to U.S. culture and lifestyles Managing finances Academic pressure and different learning styles Time management to meet demands of academic, personal and familial obligations Career options or indecision Relationship difficulties What is counseling? For many international students, counseling may not be a common practice in his/her home country. However, in the United States, counseling is becoming more common for individuals to express their concerns in a safe, friendly, and culturally sensitive environment. Counseling allows you to talk with a trained professional about issues related to your mental or emotional health in an effort to gain greater insight about yourself, to relieve emotional distress, to make desired changes in your emotional, interpersonal, academic life, and to improve your daily functioning and satisfaction. When to seek help If you are having difficulty adjusting to life in the U.S. that causes you any distress, then tell someone about your symptoms. You may wish to speak with family, friends, or even a psychologist. Asking for help is not easy, but it is a sign of courage and can help you make the most of your experience here. How do I make an appointment? Initial appointments at CAPS are offered on a walk-in basis. If you are interested in our services, simply come to CAPS between 8:30 am and 4:00 pm, Monday-Friday. You should expect about 15 to 20 minutes to complete paperwork, followed by a brief visit with a CAPS clinician. This initial contact is an opportunity for you and a CAPS clinician to determine what kinds of services will best meet your needs. This may include CAPS services or referrals to other campus and community agencies. Please let us know if you will need any accommodations or assistance with completing your paperwork at the time of your visit. Where can I find information about additional resources for international students? International Student and Scholar Services Equal Opportunity Services InternationalStudent.com Related Links UH Calendar International Student and Scholar Services International Friendship Program Equal Opportunity Services University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies