Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Faculty & Staff Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Find what you’re looking for We’re proud of our faculty and staff. You’re part of a nearly 10,000-strong crew of people who support the educational and research missions of the university and make the campus a great place to study and work. Check out some of the resources we offer to make your life a little easier. We’ve highlighted some of the university’s most popular services below. Try One.IU Looking for something that’s not here? Check out One.IU, your one-stop shop for many IU services. Whether you’re faculty or staff, these resources are for you Human Resources Learn about your medical and dental benefits, retirement plans, FMLA, and much more. Protect IU Be prepared with tips from Protect IU. You’ll also find information about IU-Notify, which keeps you up to date on local emergencies and weather situations. Parking Operations Need to get to campus? Here you’ll find information about parking permits, alternative transportation, and motorist assistance. University Information Technology Services Get help with technology. Change your passphrase, get software, learn how to use a new software application, request classroom technology, and more. Recreational Sports You know what they say about all work and no play. Have fun and get fit by becoming a member of Recreational Sports. IU Today Find out what’s going on around campus. IU Today delivers news that’s relevant to faculty and staff. Employee perks Need to buy a car? Time to replace your mobile phone? Find deals and discounts for faculty and staff at local businesses and franchises. Americans with Disabilities Act Need accommodations for a disability? Here’s what you need to know. We’re committed to maintaining an inclusive, accessible environment. Child care Looking for on-campus child care? Early Childhood Education Services provides year-round, high-quality care and education. University Policies Wondering if you can bring your dog to work? Not sure of IU’s policy about carrying firearms? Check the University Policies site first. IU Mail Services Got mail? Find out about sending and receiving mail at your campus office. Fleet Services Need a car for university business? Start at the Fleet Services. Purchasing Find everything you need to know about buying items for university use. Stop Sexual Violence We’re committed to leading the fight against sexual violence. Find out how you can get involved. Tobacco-Free IU IU Bloomington, like all university property, is tobacco free. Find out what you need to know or get help with quitting tobacco products. Lifelong Learning Learn a new subject—for fun or for professional development—through IU Lifelong Learning. Work-Life Balance Find out about support services available to help you find balance in your life. Additional faculty resources Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President Learn about the Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President’s role in ensuring the outstanding quality of our faculty and student body. Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty and Academic Affairs No matter where you are in your career, you can develop it further with help from the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty and Academic Affairs. Research at IU Are you writing a proposal or looking for funding, or do you need help developing a research idea? IU’s research offices can help. Bloomington Faculty Council Get involved. Learn about the Bloomington Faculty Council’s authority over faculty governance and how it affects you. Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Contact CITL for individual consultations, workshops, programs, and funding in support of teaching and learning. Classroom Technology Services Get help with technology in the classroom or have your lecture recorded. Still haven’t found what you’re looking for? Check with your school or department to find the answers to your questions. Additional staff resources Bloomington Professional Council Interested in knowing what goes on behind the scenes? The Bloomington Professional Council works to improve policies and practices that enhance your quality of life. University Controller Looking for information about filling out a timesheet or about payroll or taxes? The Office of the University Controller can help. Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University