Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Accounting Staff Directory Areas Travel Effort Certification Links Finance Program Guide Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Resources & Presentations Year-End Information Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home Accounting Year-End Information Year-End Information Click for Procurement Deadlines As we approach June 30th, the end of FY 2022, the Accounting Office is reminding financial managers, administrative officials, department heads, and directors of accounts to carefully review your financial activity and submit corrections to the Accounting Office as soon as possible. Remember that you may monitor your account activity by accessing Banner Self-Service or Admin Pages. This allows you to review current activity within your account and eliminates the need to wait for e~Print reports. Accounting Deadlines Activity Deadline Book Airfare Reservation via Travelennium for Travel in FY22 Monday, June 6, 2022 Cancel, Adjust, Deobligate Remaining Balances on FY22 Requisitions Non-Travel Purchase Orders: procurement@memphis.edu Travel Purchase Orders: sharedservices@memphis.edu Friday, June 17, 2022 Time Sheet for BW13 Biweekly Payroll (June 4th - June 17th) Friday, June 17, 2022 Complete FY22 Purchase Orders by Receipting Goods and Services in Tigerbuy for All Vendors, including Staples. Send Receipt # and Invoice to accountspayable@memphis.edu Monday, June 20, 2022 Settle Cash and Travel Advances for FY22 accountspayable@memphis.edu Monday, June 20, 2022 Online Budget Revisions between Account Pools: Financial Planning fprevisions@memphis.edu Monday, June 20, 2022 Last Day to Submit Invoices, Travel / Cash Advance Claims and Reimbursements to Accounting for FY22 accountspayable@memphis.edu Wednesday, June 29, 2022 Time Sheet for Split BW14 Biweekly Payroll (June 18th - July 1st) Thursday, June 30, 2022 Submit FY22 Transfer Vouchers: accounting@memphis.edu Friday, July 08, 2022 Submit Invoices for FY22 Accruals to Accounting accounting@memphis.edu Start Accepting Accruals Thursday, July 01, 2022 End Date of Accrual Period Friday, July 15, 2022 ACTION ITEMS: June 30, 2022 Preliminary Year-End Reports On Thursday, July 1, 2022, Preliminary Year-End June reports will be available via E-Print. Please review these reports and submit notification of corrections to the Accounting Office by Friday, July 8, 2022. NOTE: June – September 2021 final reports will not be available until mid-October 2021. Obligations Please review your accounts for Tigerbuy Purchase Orders using the FPIOPOF screen in Banner INB or SSB Encumbrance Query to determine which open purchase orders require invoices, are no longer required, and which ones need to be carried forward into FY-22. Please note that this review should be done throughout the year, as well as, at year-end. Non- Travel Purchase Order Adjustments for FY22 should be in Procurement by Friday, June 17th. NOTE: FY-22 Travel POs do not roll to the new fiscal year. Invoices Ensure all purchases received by Monday, June 21, 2021, are receipted in Tigerbuy by Wednesday, June 30, 2021. If invoices are sent directly to your department, please email accountspayable@memphis.edu to the Accounts Payable Office by deadline date. Outstanding purchase orders for goods and services not received by June 30th will be charged against FY 2022 funds. Purchases received by June 30th that were made outside of the Tigerbuy system should be reported to General Accounting at accounting@memphis.edu by July 8th, whether or not an invoice has been received. Staples Purchases Orders submitted by June 20th that are delivered and receipted by June 30th will be charged to FY 2022. Orders delivered after June 30th will be charged to FY 2023. Travel Purchase Orders Last Day to submit outstanding FY-22 travel claims to the Accounting Office by Wednesday, June 29th. accountspayable@memphis.edu Travel that begins on or before June 30, 2022 and ends in July will be charged to FY 2023. Accounting Forms: https://www.memphis.edu/bf/forms/index.php#travel QUESTIONS? Should you require additional information, please contact the Accounting Office at x2271 or by e-mail at accounting@memphis.edu. Procurement Deadlines Below are the deadlines for current year (FY22) and future year (FY23) requisitions. Please contact Procurement and Contract Services staff at x2265 or by e-mail at procurement@memphis.edu if we can assist with your purchases. For your convenience, Tigerbuy Training may be scheduled through Learning Curve for anyone needing new or refresher training. Case-by-Case Request: FY23 All Sole source purchases that are $250K or greater with an effective start date of July 1st. These must have State of Tennessee Fiscal Review Committee (FRC) approval 75 days in advance of start/effective date of the contract. Contracts with effective dates of July 1st, required documents should be routed to Procurement by the first week of April 2022. Monday, April 18: FY23 Purchase requests $10K or greater requiring BIDDING with an effective/start date of July 1st. Monday, June 13: Procurement will start receiving FY23 Purchases, NOT requiring a bid, but includes Agreement that requiring review and signatures. And/Or, supplier provided terms and conditions that requiring review by Procurement and Contract Services. Monday, June 20: Procurement will start receiving FY23 purchases requiring no signatures, no terms and conditions for Procurement review. All FY23 Purchases submitted to Procurement via Tigerbuy, must have ‘07/01/2022’ entered in the ‘Accounting Date field’ of the ‘Billing Options’ section to hold until July 1. FY23 Purchase Orders (PO) will not be issued prior to July 1, 2022. Monday, May 16: Review Purchase Orders with an open encumbrance in Banner and enter a Change Order Request form in Tigerbuy to cancel, adjust or deobligate encumbrances. Monday, June 20: Ensure purchases received by June 20, 2022 are receipted by June 21, 2022 to be charged against FY22 budget. Monday, June 27: PCard purchases for FY22 must post to the June statement by this date. Thursday, June 30: Last day for FY22 PCard reallocations and approvals. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.