Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Spaces Places to Study Places to Study Filters Location Bridwell Fondren Hamon Arts Feature A/V equipment Casual seating Computer Conversation allowed Graduate students Group study rooms Natural light Quiet Reservable Study carrels Whiteboard Clear Filters No matches exist for this combination. Bridwell Collaborative Study Room Available to students, staff, and faculty of the Perkins School of Theology and the Graduate Program in Religious Studies. Equipped with a MediaScape collaborative workstation, a large-screen monitor, lectern, magnetic whiteboard, and USB outlets. Current seating capacity: 12. View map Reserve now Bridwell Current Periodicals Reading Room Large room with red walls and windows near the circulation and reference offices with large four-person tables, reading lamps, and electrical outlets. This is a quiet study area. View map Bridwell Gill Room Area behind main desk with several wing back chairs and small tables. No power supply. This is a quiet study area. View map Bridwell Lower Basement A variety of seating options for individual study and small group conversations. Check the underside of the tables for power strips. Guest computers, scanner, and copier are close by. Includes computer with accessibility software and adjustable height table. View map Bridwell Methodist Collection Reading Room Large room with blue walls and windows off the Gill Room behind the main desk with large four-person tables, reading lamps, and electrical outlets. This is the quietest study area. View map Bridwell Reference Reading Room The green room has reference resources including commentaries and dictionaries and a tabletop magnifier. It has windows and large four-person tables with reading lamps and built-in electrical outlets. This is a quiet study area. View map Bridwell Upper Basement Casual seating with built-in power supply close to the south elevator. View map Fondren Blue Level 1 A variety of study options are available, including study carrels, casual seating, small tables, and computers. The computer area looks out onto the Laura Bush West Promenade courtyard. A printer and copy machine are nearby. This is a higher traffic area and conversation is allowed. View map Fondren Blue Level 1 Large Study Rooms Two rooms with large tables. Current seating capacity: 6. Both 1A and 1B have a white board and multiple electrical outlets. View map Reserve Now Fondren Blue Level 1 Small Study Rooms Two rooms (1C and 1D) with tables and electrical outlets. Current seating capacity: 1. View map Reserve Now Fondren Blue Level 1.5 Mezzanine The mezzanine is a large, open area with a variety of seating arrangements, including study carrels, tables, casual seating, and computers. The two-story windows provide natural light to the area. Conversation is allowed. View map Fondren Blue Level 1.5 Study Rooms Study rooms 1E and 1F have windows which let in natural light from the huge Mezzanine windows. Each room contains a small table and a whiteboard. Current seating capacity: 4. View map Reserve Now Fondren Blue Level 2 Study carrels and small tables abound throughout the stacks. This is a quiet area on the second floor. View map Fondren Blue Level 2 Graduate Study Rooms Individual study rooms that can be reserved for an academic year at a time. Available to graduate students by application. For more information, see Graduate Student Spaces. Fondren Blue Level 2 Small Study Rooms These small rooms (M-P) are in a quiet area of the 2nd floor. Each has a small table and an electrical outlet. Current seating capacity: 1. View map Reserve Now Fondren Blue Level 2 Medium Study Rooms These study rooms are in a quiet area of the 2nd floor. Each has a small table. Room 2S has a whiteboard; Rooms 2Q and 2R have both a chalkboard and a whiteboard. Current seating capacity: 4. View map Reserve Now Fondren Courtyard Tables and benches located outside the library's west entrance. WiFi is available. View map Fondren Gray Level 1 Collaborative Commons The Fondren Library Collaborative Commons features a Starbucks Cafe, four monitors and lots of tables and booths for collaborative study. Conversation is allowed. Fondren Gray Level 2 Foyer The Foyer in Fondren Library provides a small amount of casual seating Fondren Gray Level 2 Reading Room The Fondren Centennial Reading Room is a large room with four and six person tables for focused, quiet study. Each table has lamps and electrical outlets. The reference collection of Fondren Library is also in this space. Fondren Lobby Level 2 A popular study area, the lobby has comfortable, casual seating, several electric outlets, small tables, and natural light. This is a high-traffic area and conversation is allowed. View map Fondren Lobby Level 2 Study Rooms These study rooms are especially popular for both group and individual study. Each room has a window, a table with chairs, and whiteboard capture technology. Rooms 2H and 2L have comfy armchairs. Current seating capacity: 6 in Room 2J, 4 in the other rooms. View map Reserve Now Fondren Red Level 1 Conference Rooms Conference Rooms 103 and 108 are equipped with whiteboard capture technology and all-in-one interactive Zoom environments. Room 103 has a 70" display and HDMI connections. Room 108 has a 49" display and wireless connections. Current seating capacity: 8. Reserve Now Fondren Red Level 1 Prothro Learning Commons The Learning Commons features PC and Mac computers, printers, scanners, a copy machine, and a charging station. Choose from casual seating near the windows or desks and tables. This is a high-traffic area and conversation is allowed. View map Fondren Red Level 2 This quiet floor offers a variety of study options, including large tables, small tables, and study carrels. Large windows with comfortable chairs make for a great spot to decompress and study. View map Fondren Red Level 2 Study Rooms 2A-B Close to the elevators and restrooms, Fondren Red 2A and 2B each have a whiteboard. Current seating capacity: 6. View map Reserve Now Fondren Red Level 2 Study Rooms 2C-F Tucked away in a quiet corner of Fondren Library, these rooms accommodate both groups and individuals. Each room has a whiteboard. Current seating capacity: 4. Rooms 2C, 2D, 2E, and 2F. View map Reserve Now Fondren Red Level 3 Graduate Lounge The Graduate Student Lounge is open to current graduate students enrolled in courses. The lounge is located in Fondren Library Red room 320. Students will need an active ID in order to swipe into the space. View map Fondren Red Level 4 This quiet floor offers beautiful views of campus and a variety of seating options. View map Hamon Arts First Floor The first floor study areas are in close proximity to the library services desk. Students can choose to study at tables by the periodicals and reference section or by the windows. The area in front of the windows has tables, chairs, and electrical outlets as well as casual seating. Printing, scanning and copy services available in room 1270. Quiet conversation is allowed on this floor. View map Hamon Arts Graduate Study Rooms Secured study rooms for Meadows Graduate students. Some rooms have natural light. Application required. Apply Now Hamon Arts Group AV Study Rooms 2270 and 3270 The Audiovisual study rooms 2270 & 3270 have multimedia capabilities including a widescreen monitor, laptop adaptors, HDMI connectors and a Blu-ray disc player for playing Blu-ray discs, CDs and DVDs. A turntable and electric keyboard are available for check out at the 1st floor services desk. Current seating capacity: 4. View map Reserve Now Hamon Arts Large Group Study Room 2250, Room 3250 These large rooms have conference table seating, a large whiteboard, and Mersive Solstice classroom technology. Current seating capacity: 12 View map Reserve Now Hamon Arts Second Floor The second floor of Hamon is a very quiet area. This floor has long-term study rooms that can be reserved by the semester. The study carrels are first come-first served. The area by the windows has six tables with chairs as well as casual seating. View map Hamon Arts Study Carrels Lighted study carrels with power strips for plugging in multiple devices. View map Hamon Arts Third Floor The third floor of Hamon is a very quiet area. This floor has long-term study rooms that can be reserved by the semester. The study carrels are first come-first served. The area by the windows has six tables with chairs as well as casual seating. View map $room-name × Close Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share