Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPHPublic Health Minor Masters MHAEMHAMPHMS BiostatisticsDual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs MPH Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions MPH Program FAQ What are the pre-requisite courses? There are no pre-requisites for the MPH program. How long is the program? The program is designed to be completed in two years. It is possible to finish in less than two years, however depending on concentration and availability of courses, it is not always feasible. How many credit hours is the program? 42 hours How many admissions cycles does the MPH have each year? University of Memphis SPH, admits students to the MPH program Spring and Fall every year. Do you accept applicants on a rolling basis? While admissions are rolling, we cannot guarantee admission unless your application has been submitted by July 15th for the Fall semester and November 15th for the Spring semester to ensure sufficient time for processing. For international students the deadlines are July 1st for the Fall semester and November 1st for the Spring semester. Do I have to submit both SOPHAS and Graduate School applications? You are required to submit both the full SOPHAS application and the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions application. We require the SOPHAS application to be submitted by the deadline and paid in full for your application to be considered for review. What is the school code for sending my official standardized test scores or GRE scores? SOPHAS: 6980 HAMPCAS: 8838 Who should I ask for Letters of Recommendations? Typically, we recommend you have at least two from a previous professor or instructor. Overall, it is in your best interest to have three letter writers who will best be able to attest to your academic ability and your overall public health potential. How would you recommend I prepare my Statement of Purpose and Objectives? Your Statement of Purpose should explain what has brought you to pursue graduate training in Public Health and your eventual career goals. It may also explain why you are pursuing this degree now, and why at University of Memphis. Can the GRE be waived? Applicants who have completed a terminal degree such as JD, MD, PhD from an accredited institution are not required to submit GRE scores. Students currently enrolled in a medical, dental, optometry, business, or law school can submit their MCAT, DAT, OAT, GMAT, or LSAT scores, respectively, in lieu of the GRE. Other professional school exams will not be eligible as alternatives to the GRE exam. Applicants who have completed a MBBS degree, and have passed the Step 1 of the USMLE, are not required to submit GRE scores. To be eligible for the GRE waiver, copies of both official USMLE scores will be required to be uploaded with your application. What is UofM Global? UofM Global degree programs are developed by University of Memphis faculty and are programs are offered entirely online. The online MPH is a UofM Global degree program and can be taken anywhere in the world without ever having to come to campus. How much does the program cost? Please visit University & Student Business Services' Fee Chart for more information. The standard course load for a graduate student is nine (9) hours per semester. I have already taken public health courses at another university. Can they be transferred? You can transfer up to 15 credits, if you have received a B or higher, and they were taken at an accredited School of Public Health. All transfer credits must be evaluated by the graduate school no later than the end of the second semester of enrollment. I have a question about my visa. Who can I contact? You may contact the International Student Services Office regarding your visa status: theworld@memphis.edu I am an international student. Do I need to have my transcript evaluated? Yes. If you received any of your degrees outside of the United States, they need to be evaluated by WES or by any members of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES). As an international student, am I required to take the TOEFL? Yes, TOEFL scores are required for all applicants from countries in which the official language is not English. The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) may be taken in lieu of the TOEFL. Contact Us Shirl Sharpe, MS Academic Services Coordinator II ssharpe@memphis.edu 901.678.1710 Vikki Nolan, DSc, MPH Assistant Dean and MPH Director vgnolan@memphis.edu Christie Rakestraw Graduate School Admissions Counselor crakstrw@memphis.edu 901.678.4489 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.