Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V UNLV Admissions UNLV Admissions About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close UNLV Admissions menu UNLV Admissions UNLV Admissions Home Undergraduate Admissions Graduate College Admissions Law School Admissions Medical School Admissions Paying for College Tuition and College Costs NSHE Predictable Pricing Program Contact UNLV close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Paying for College When choosing a college, cost is often a deciding factor. Nearly 76% of UNLV students receive financial aid or scholarships and the class of 2017 had some of the least amount of debt upon graduation. Discover the value of UNLV. Tuition and College Costs Financial Aid and Scholarships FAFSA Federal Student Aid, a part of the U.S. Department of Education, is the largest provider of student financial aid in the nation. We encourage all students to apply for financial aid and scholarships by submitting the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible. When you complete your FAFSA you are also automatically considered for institutional scholarships. You may also check with your academic college for additional scholarship opportunities. The FAFSA becomes available Oct. 1. Priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships will be given to those who submit a completed FAFSA by Nov. 15. You may apply after Nov. 15; however, funding may be limited. How to apply for financial aid UNLV will cover the cost of tuition, fees, and $1,000 toward books for eligible, full-time Nevada resident students who file the FAFSA or Alternate Need Form by the priority deadline of Nov. 15. More information What Are Scholarships? Scholarships are monies awarded by UNLV or by private donors based on a variety of criteria established by the scholarship donor and/or the Nevada Board of Regents. Scholarships may support a specific area of study, and may also include other criteria such as academic performance or financial need. Most importantly, scholarships are a source of free money that does not need to repaid and are an excellent source to help defray the costs of your education. Did You Know, At UNLV... Many scholarships offer automatic consideration based on admission, with no additional application required Most scholarships are renewable for four years Scholarships are stackable with other awards, including external scholarships Most scholarships can be applied towards the cost of room & board Check out employment opportunities Work Programs There are many employment opportunities both on and off campus that are available to students who need assistance financing their education. Check out employment opportunities Learn About Loans Loans Loans can help you pay your tuition, fees, and living expenses. They must be repaid, usually after you graduate, withdraw, or change enrollment status. Learn about loans “UNLV did a great job ensuring that I received all aid I qualified for. As a first-generation college student, being able to fund my own education was a huge help.” Valentina, ’17, mechanical engineering Scholarship Stories View All Saved from the Purge Saved from the Purge 7 Things to Know About Completing the FAFSA 7 Things to Know About Completing the FAFSA You're Selected for Financial Aid Verification. Now What? You're Selected for Financial Aid Verification. Now What? Receiving a Helping Hand to Start Over Receiving a Helping Hand to Start Over Dream Chaser: Carlos Mejia Castillo Dream Chaser: Carlos Mejia Castillo Women's Council Spotlight: Katherine Burdick Women's Council Spotlight: Katherine Burdick UNLV to Offer New Tuition+ Award Program for Nevada Residents UNLV to Offer New Tuition+ Award Program for Nevada Residents Helping Others Face a New Way of Life Helping Others Face a New Way of Life Think You Can’t Afford to Study Abroad? Think You Can’t Afford to Study Abroad? Support scholarships Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV