Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Facilities, Centers & Institutes Baylor>Research>Facilities, Centers & Institutes Facilities, Centers & Institutes Baylor researchers enjoy outstanding facilities that support top-tier research and exploration, interdisciplinary collaboration, technological design and testing, lab-to-market development, and engaging educational opportunities for students at all levels. Learn more about these transformative facilities, as well as research centers and institutes across campus. Baylor Sciences Building The iconic Baylor Sciences Building features over 500,000 square feet of state-of-the-art labs, classrooms and offices, housing six academic departments and more than a dozen interdisciplinary research organizations. In more than 150 laboratories and nearly 40 class and conference rooms, outstanding faculty members advance knowledge through groundbreaking research and engaged learning with students at every level. Completed in 2004, the Baylor Sciences Building continues to update, modernize and demonstrate Baylor University’s commitment to top-tier research, scholarship and exploration. About the Baylor Sciences Building Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative The Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative (BRIC) was created to spark interdisciplinary research, economic development and transformative partnerships between educational institutions, local governments and industry. Completed in 2013, this 330,000 square-foot, technologically advanced and environmentally friendly facility houses research centers such as the Center for Astrophysics, Space Physics and Engineering Research (CASPER), the Center for Spatial Research, the Quantum Optics Laboratory, and an array of facilities and resources in electrical engineering and mechanical engineering-composite research. The BRIC is a place where collaboration and discovery bring industry, economic development and workforce elevation to Central Texas. About the BRIC Centers & Institutes At Baylor, faculty facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration and deep dives into a variety of disciplines in over 20 research centers and institutes. These collaborative organizations bring faculty, undergraduate students, graduate students and post-Doc professionals together in unique and impactful ways to learn from and challenge each other as they seek innovative solutions. About Centers & Institutes Facilities, Centers & Institutes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact