Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Columbia Climate School Goes to the Green Mountains Education Columbia Climate School Goes to the Green Mountains This pre-college program in Castleton, Vermont, will mobilize students in grades 9–12 to take action and affect change in response to our warming planet. By Cassie Xu April 16, 2021 The Earth Institute and the Columbia Climate School are excited to announce the first-ever Columbia Climate School in the Green Mountains pre-college program happening in person this summer in Castleton, Vermont, from June 27-July 9. The program will mobilize action, drive impact, and affect change in response to our warming planet. It is designed for students in grades 9–12, including rising 9th grade students. Applications are now open here. We believe that young people have a critical role to play in finding solutions to a fast and evolving future where climate change continues to disrupt our way of life. This program will help bring transparency to the complexities of the climate crisis and offer real-world experience to demonstrate impact. It is an excellent opportunity to engage with experts from the inaugural Columbia Climate School and learn about cutting-edge innovations in climate action. Participants will meet in person, collaborate, and build partnerships with like-minded students, and tap into collective strengths for action, activating an ambition to drive and sustain change in their communities. The Climate School will take place over two weeks at Castleton University’s campus and provide the space and opportunities for high school students to engage, educate, and get excited about fostering solutions. Topics to be covered include the science of climate change, climate impacts and resilience efforts, environmental justice, community impact and science communication and advocacy. Students will participate in a range of activities including seminars, small group activities, team-building and networking activities, excursions and field-based lessons and final projects. Additional fall programming will also be available for students who are interested in continuing their work. All programming will be taught by renowned Columbia faculty, researchers, and practitioners who are experts in their field, including: Arthur Lerner-Lam, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Lisa Dale, Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development Thomas Chandler, National Center for Disaster Preparedness Lisa Goddard, International Research Institute for Climate and Society Joshua Devincenzo, National Center for Disaster Preparedness Laurel Zaima, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Admission to this program is selective. The organizing committee will look for exceptional and highly motivated students who are eager to participate in climate action in their communities. Full and partial scholarship opportunities are available for this program. Please visit the application page to learn more about eligibility and scholarship applications; we will be updating this page very soon with all of the information. Have questions? Visit our FAQ page or email us at [email protected]. Tags climate action Columbia Climate School Earth Institute non-degree programs education news Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory youth education News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close