Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media People-First Practice: Turner Cooper, L&T'22 Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram News & Events People-First Practice: Turner Cooper, L&T'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Learning and Teaching reflects on his time at HGSE and looks toward the future. By News editor May 20, 2022 Read more about the Intellectual Contribution Award winners and other stories about Commencement 2022. "Taken in November 2021 when I was able to visit Harvard campus for the first time as a student. I took this picture in front Gutman knowing the next time I would see Gutman, I would be in Harvard commencement regalia." Photo: Courtesy of Turner Cooper "Taken in November 2021 when I was able to visit Harvard campus for the first time as a student. I took this picture in front Gutman knowing the next time I would see Gutman, I would be in Harvard commencement regalia." Photo: Courtesy of Turner Cooper The Intellectual Contribution Award recognizes graduating Ed.M. students (one from each Ed.M. program) whose dedication to scholarship enhanced HGSE’s academic community and positively affected fellow students. Turner Cooper will be honored with the Intellectual Contribution Award for Learning and Teaching (L&T) Program during HGSE's Convocation exercises on May 25. Senior Lecturer Kathryn Parker Boudett, faculty director of L&T, comments on Cooper's selection:“Turner was exquisitely present in my courses this fall. He balanced frequent on-point engagement in the chat window with thoughtfully framed discussion contributions that always took the conversation to a new level. But I am most grateful for the probing questions he would stay and offer after the formal class had ended. His thirst for understanding inspired our whole teaching team to dig deeper.” We spoke to Cooper about his time at HGSE, his future plans, and how the pandemic has changed the education landscape. What brought you to the Ed School and what were your goals? When HGSE announced that it was opening an additional round of admissions for the 2020–2021 academic year, I honestly took out a bet on myself. This would be my second time attempting a master’s program — the first time I had to withdraw with only less than 12 hours of credit remaining to complete my degree. There was a lot of doubt surrounding my ability to handle the workload, working full-time and being a Black man in America. So I set two goals: to learn and to graduate. That’s it. Those goals didn’t change. I learned as much as I could and now I am about to graduate. "It was incumbent that I humanized the people who were welcoming me into their home via Zoom. The act of seeing folks that I was engaging with as human through an artificial screen cemented my understanding of a 'people-first' practice." What were your experiences with online learning and what do you think makes it effective? Given that I was teaching second grade during spring 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic was declared, my teaching practice required that I shifted to online learning. Leading pre-service teachers during the summer of 2020 through DEI training virutally required that I humanized the people who I was inviting into my home and vice versa — it was incumbent that I humanized the people who were welcoming me into their home via Zoom. The act of seeing folks that I was engaging with as human through an artificial screen cemented my understanding of a “people-first” practice. I saw this “people-first” practice in Community Time with Dr. V [Christina Villarreal] making one of my classmates’ family recipe for Phở, I saw this present when Dr. Tim McCarthy halted his scheduled lecture on January 6, 2021 and named the vitriolic white supremacist violence we were witnessing with the Capitol insurrection. My professors knew I was a student and human leading a full life that is impacted by the different happenings of the world. Is there any professor or class that significantly shaped your experience at the Ed School? Almost every class I chose has left an indelible impact on my experience at HGSE — Karen Mapp, Christina “V” Villarreal, Aysha Upchurch, Holly Lem, Timothy McCarthy, Metta McGarvey, Kathy Boudett, Deborah Helsing, Aaliyah El-Amin, and Bianca Baldridge. Each of these professors sought to understand the humanity of their students. Not only were office hours offered — they prioritized making the lectures, syllabi, and assignments adaptive to the moment. They created experiences. Unforgettable experiences, at that! #CleanPain How has the pandemic shifted your views of education? Oooh, that is a good question. Long story short. School does not equal education. In the American context, we are more committed to schooling children and adults and not educating them. The pandemic has deepened my commitment to education and not the system of schooling. What are your post-HGSE plans? I am still sorting through my post-HGSE plans. I know for sure I’m going to celebrate the fact that I’m graduating from Harvard Graduate School of Education with a whole master's degree in the midst a pandemic. So plans for post-HGSE is to CELEBRATE! INTELLECTUAL CONTRIBUTION AWARD: NEXT PROFILE Related News: A Practitioner Perspective: Katie Wiseman, L&L'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Language and Literacy reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. To See and Shape the Future of Education: Loyola Rankin, HEP'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Higher Education reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. More In: Intellectual Contribution Award commencement Commencement 2022 In this section News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media People-First Practice: Turner Cooper, L&T'22 Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice