Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Essential Resources Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Essential Resources for International Students What does daily life look like at the University of Cincinnati? Whether it's your finances or your food, your housing or your health, your safety or your study habits, we can answer your questions and connect you with people and resources to help you with any problem you are facing. Find housing and dining options Get around campus Manage your finances Stay healthy and insured Follow the law and stay safe Outside of the necessities, we hope you'll get to know us and other support staff around campus. Meet the other students at UC who would love to introduce you to your new home. We think those things are essential for your happy and successful life here, too. Getting Started at UC Before you even step foot on campus, you will need a number of resources to help you navigate the application process, visas and student systems access. UC ID number / Usernames + Passwords - Your personal identification at the university, which helps you access resources like Canopy, Catalyst and student email. Bearcat Card - Your student ID card, which can also have money to pay for items around campus. OneStop Student Services - An office that can answer questions about your bill, your student record, and your course registration. iBearcatsGlobal - UC International's database that helps students make requests, check in at UC and maintain their visa status. International Admissions - An office that can offer assistance with undergraduate student admissions. Graduate School - An office that can offer assistance with graduate student admissions. IPALs Scout Map As you venture on and around campus, you may wonder what restaurants to go to, how to get around, or the best place to study. Our student group, the IPALs, put together an interactive map by students, for students. This map includes their recommendations as well as the Bearcat Shuttle route for reference. The IPALs Scout Map will continue to be updated with student recommendations. If needed, please reach out to the IPALs for an accessible list. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top