Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information News Search Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Keywords Filter - Any -View External Media NewsView Our News Showing 1 - 10 of 1841 results. Opioid Use a Hazard for Young Patients Battling Sarcomas Source: U.S. News & World Report May 31, 2022 "These results highlight the need to monitor young patients with sarcoma for post-treatment opioid use,” said author Melissa Beauchemin, assistant professor at Columbia University School of Nursing. Baby-Formula Shortage Worsened by Drop in Breast-Feeding Rates Source: The Wall Street Journal May 29, 2022 The pandemic allowed some mothers to nurse for longer because they were working from home, said Kim Hekimian, an assistant professor of nutrition at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Opinion: Why America Doesn’t Know How to Stop School Shootings Source: The Washington Post May 26, 2022 “We really don’t know what works and what doesn’t to keep schools safe from events like Tuesday,” said Charles Branas, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University. Alzheimer’s Researchers Probe New Treatment Paths Source: The Wall Street Journal May 22, 2022 “It was so compelling that it triggered the pharmaceutical industry to act,” said Scott Small, director of the Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center at Columbia University. As Fentanyl Overdoses Rise, How to Keep Loved Ones Safe Source: The New York Times May 19, 2022 You have a much shorter window of time to intervene and save a person’s life during a fentanyl overdose than a heroin overdose, said Jermaine Jones, a behavioral neuroscientist at Columbia University. How Often Can You Be Infected With the Coronavirus? Source: The New York Times May 16, 2022 While studying common-cold coronaviruses, “we saw people with multiple infections within the space of a year,” said Jeffrey Shaman, an epidemiologist at Columbia University in New York. Overturning Roe v. Wade Will Make It Harder to Treat Miscarriage Source: Bloomberg May 12, 2022 “There is very little distinction between miscarriage treatment and induced abortion at really any time during gestation,” said Carolyn Westhoff, an OB-GYN at Columbia University’s medical school. High Blood Pressure in Young People May Cause Long-Term Brain Issues Source: The Washington Post May 10, 2022 “Brain injury is cumulative, and it starts sooner than we think,” says Mitch Elkind, professor of neurology and epidemiology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. What Is Prolonged Grief Disorder? Source: U.S. News & World Report May 5, 2022 “The escalating number of deaths during the pandemic made grief more common and more talked about in the mainstream media,” says Dr. Katherine Shear, professor of psychiatry at Columbia University. Can Virtual Reality Help Ease Chronic Pain? Source: The New York Times Magazine April 26, 2022 Editor's Note: Helen Ouyang, the author of this article, is an associate professor in the Department of Emergency Medicine. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top