Skip to main content Boise State News Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Boise State News Only Boise State News Podcasts Contact Us More section menu items Boise State News News Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Campus Life and Student Success News for the Campus Community Boise State’s 110th commencement to celebrate record number of graduates on The Blue May 3, 2022 Campus celebrations from spring 2022 graduates. Boise State is celebrating its 110th commencement on Saturday, May 7 at 10 a.m. at Albertsons Stadium. Boise State University will award an honorary doctorate to Sanjay Mehrotra, president and chief executive officer of Micron Technology, during the university’s 110th commencement ceremony May 7 on The Blue in Albertsons Stadium. Born in Kanpur, India, Mehrotra’s father was passionate about getting his son the best engineering education possible. To do that, he needed a visa to study in the United States. The embassy turned down the request three times, but his father was persistent. Mehrotra, now an American citizen, often cites this as a lesson in the power of tenacity. Upon reaching the U.S., Mehrotra attended UC Berkeley where he earned his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering and computer science by the age of 21, an education that opened doors into the dynamic semiconductor industry. Over his 40 year career, Mehrotra has served as a corporate executive and a company founder. He holds more than 70 patents, has earned numerous industry awards and in 2019 he served as chairman of the Semiconductor Industry Association. In the past two years, he has been inducted into the Semiconductor Industry Association Hall of Fame and elected to the National Academy of Engineering. Sanjay Mehrotra, president and chief executive officer of Micron Technology He has been leading Micron since 2017. His leadership style shows his passions for inclusive culture, continuous learning and community outreach. He is leading Micron during an exciting period for the company, where changes in computing architecture are opening new opportunities for memory and storage technologies to transform everyday life. Micron has been a steady partner to Boise State for decades, helping to found the College of Engineering nearly 25 years ago, and continuing to support students through world-class facilities, as well as making significant investments in doctoral programs that benefit industry and the state of Idaho. Boise State’s College Engineering is now Idaho’s largest and top-ranked engineering college. This spring, 3,109 Boise State students are eligible for graduation, qualifying for 3,733 degrees or certificates; 1,400 of those degrees and certificates are being completed with honors. About 2,400 students are expected to participate in the May 7 ceremony, making it the largest in Boise State history. Other milestones this spring include Boise State’s 90th anniversary, the 50th anniversary of the first master’s degree awarded, and the 25th anniversary of the first doctoral degree awarded. Kenneth Huston, president of the Associated Students of Boise State University, will be the featured student speaker for the ceremony. Huston is graduating with a Bachelor Science in Environmental Studies with minors in economics, sustainability and climate studies, as well as a certificate in human rights. He is the 2021-22 president of the Associated Students of Boise State University. He has served and advocated on behalf of students in a variety of spaces on campus, taking on increasing responsibility and leadership as he progressed in his academic career. As student body president, Huston expanded the role by partnering with University Advancement and the Boise State Foundation board to be an effective student voice in fundraising. “Mr. Huston truly embodies the notion of service within the mission of the School of Public Service,” said Andrew Giacomazzi, who nominated Huston. “He never shies away from lending a helping hand – to fellow students, to staff members, to professors, and to administrators alike. He is a true leader who was born to serve and who asks for nothing in return.” Huston has been admitted to the accelerated masters program in public administration at Boise State University, where he will pursue his graduate degree. For more information about the May 7 ceremony, including graduate tickets and guest information, visit Boise State’s commencement website. Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Newer Posts Older Posts Office of Communications and Marketing communications@boisestate.edu (208) 426-1577 Alumni and Friends Center Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University