Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Reproductive Health Pregnancy Your decision to continue a pregnancy, to make a plan for parenting or adoption, or to have an abortion is not a simple or easy one. It is important to take the time you need to make the choice that is best for you. Talking with family members, friends, and loved ones can help. The following information is intended to help you think through your options in order to make the decision that's right for you. If you would like to talk with someone about pregnancy testing, pregnancy options, or any other questions concerning pregnancy, there are several resources on campus you can contact. On-Campus Resources University Health Services 401.863-3953 Call to make an appointment with a medical provider for a physical examination and/or pregnancy testing. Health Services does not provide abortion services but can provide you with referrals. All services are confidential. Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Psychotherapists are available to discuss all issues of pregnancy and decision-making. Call to make an appointment. All counseling sessions are confidential. Chaplains Office 401.863-2344 Chaplains are available to discuss all issues of pregnancy and decision-making. Call to make an appointment. All discussions are confidential. Off-Campus Resources The following organizations will provide counseling on pregnancy options and abortion services. Planned Parenthood of Southern New England 401.421-9620 Counselors are available to discuss all concerns and explore all available pregnancy options. Services available include routine gynecological care, contraceptive services, pregnancy testing, HIV testing, STI testing and treatment, emergency contraception, abortion support groups, and surgical and medical abortion services. Call for information and to make an appointment. Women's Medical Center of Rhode Island 401.467-9111 Services available include routine gynecological care, contraceptive services, pregnancy testing, counseling services, and surgical and medical abortion services up to 21.6 weeks and will refer out up to 24 weeks. Call for more information and to make an appointment. Four Women, Inc. 508-222-7555 Services include emergency contraception, free pregnancy testing, evening and Saturday appointments, and surgical and medical abortion services up to 18.6 weeks. Call for more information or to make an appointment. The following organizations provide services specifically designed to help with continuing a pregnancy and will assist with adoption or parenting decisions. Bethany Christian Services 1-800-BETHANY Free counseling and other comprehensive services for the pregnant person and their family. Children's Friend and Services 401.331-2900 Planning for prenatal health care, living arrangements and selection of adoptive parents. Jewish Family Service, Inc. 401.331-1244 Not restricted to Jewish clients. Free and nonsectarian birth-parent counseling. Services for prenatal care. Adoption placement services. Wide Horizons for Children 401.421-4752 Free, confidential, birth-parent counseling and resource referrals. Options available to review the profiles of prospective adoptive parents and to select the family of choice. Related Links Backline 888.493-0092 Backline is a website and helpline dedicated to addressing the broad range of experiences and emotions surrounding pregnancy, parenting, adoption and abortion. Planned Parenthood Planned Parenthood's "considering a pregnancy" and "pregnancy options" sections offer helpful, balanced questions to help you make the decision that is right for you. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook