Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Student Life > Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities On any given week, students at Columbia Engineering can choose from a robust schedule of events both school and university-wide. Event Ticket and Attendance Policies Columbia Engineering uses Eventbrite to sell tickets to its events. Events held by the Graduate Student Affairs are only for Columbia Engineering Graduate Students. To that end, please familiarize yourself with our Eventbrite policy below. For questions, students can email [email protected]. For all events, the Graduate Student Affairs will invite students through an Eventbrite link and/or email. Before registering/purchasing tickets for an event, please read event instructions carefully. Students may not purchase more than one ticket, and they are not permitted to purchase tickets for students from other Columbia University schools (unless otherwise specified in the Eventbrite). Students must provide a Columbia ID with Engineering Programs (EP) sticker, and in events where alcohol is consumed, proof of age with government ID. If you do not have an EP sticker, please obtain one from the Front Desk of the Office of Graduate Student Affairs, located in 530 Mudd Building. There are no refunds for events. If a student registers for an event and pays the fee, they must transfer/sell the ticket to another Columbia Engineering Graduate student if they are unable to attend. Instructions for transferring tickets can be found on the Eventbrite site. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event at Columbia University, please contact Disability Services ([email protected] or 212-854-2388) at least 10 days in advance of the event. Events from Graduate Student Affairs The Graduate Student Affairs offers several different types of event programming in order to foster students' social, academic, and professional growth. In the past, we have hosted: Broadway shows Diversity and inclusion trainings On-campus and off-campus networking socials Escape rooms Sporting events Museum tours Private movie screenings And much, much more. We are always open to recommendations! Please look out for surveys that ask for your input during the school year. EGSC and Student Group Events The Engineering Graduate Student Council and affiliated student groups also work hard to put out effective programming for students. Some of their programming has included: Semesterly boat cruises Film-screenings Monthly socials Therapy animals for stress-relief LinkedIn photo shoots EGSC also welcomes recommendations. Join a student group to host your own event and have an impact on the Columbia Community! Annual Events In addition to all of the programming that GSA, EGSC and all of our student groups offer, we are proud of some of our annual signature events. These include: Orientation & Welcome Day Campus Life Fair Graduate Engineers Connect Engineering for Humanity Faculty Tech Talks SEAS Class Day GSA Newsletter Graduate Student Affairs sends out a weekly newsletter highlighting events happening on campus. If you would like your event to be added to an upcoming newsletter, please send an e-mail with the event information (Name, Date, Time, and Flyer in .jpg format) to [email protected] GSA Calendar Below is a calendar of all upcoming events hosted by the Graduate Student Affairs, including any EGSC and EGSC sub-group events. You may also use the calendar to keep up to date with Professional Leadership and Development workshops. Please click here to sync the SEAS GSA Events calendar with your LionMail account. IMPORTANT POLICY NOTICE (1) Students are only permitted to reserve 1 ticket. (2) Students MUST have their CUID with "EP" attached to it at all events. (3) Multiple tickets or tickets purchased by non-Columbia Engineering Graduate Students will be canceled. (4) You MUST register with your Columbia LionMail email address. Non @columbia.edu email address will be canceled. (5) You MUST be at least 21 years old to attend certain age-restricted events. A government-issued I.D. is required. Failure to adhere to University and Columbia Engineering policies may result in forfeiture of refund or in Code Conduct Proceeding. Any questions, please contact Asst. Dean Brookes Connect instagram facebook twitter MORE {{item.username}} | {{item.date}} Event Policies and Resources Students wishing to plan their own events will need to follow these policies, and might find the following resources helpful. Policies and Resources Engineering Student Handbook This student handbook contains most of the policies guiding your tenure as students at Columbia. You are responsible for knowing the contents and following all policies contained within. 2020 - 2021 Student Handbook COVID-19 Resources To learn more about policies on gatherings, returning to campus, please visit the Return to Campus page. Updates and Information HAVE AN EMERGENCY? Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Public Safety Resources Public Safety Lion Safe App Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University