Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Academics Faculty of Arts and Sciences Faculty of Arts and Sciences The Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Columbia University is the institutional home that comprises faculty from the social sciences, humanities, and natural sciences. All undergraduate liberal arts courses are taught by members of the Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The Faculty of Arts and Sciences includes five schools: Columbia College, the School of General Studies, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the School of the Arts, and the School of Professional Studies, as well as numerous institutes and centers. University Administration Lee Bollinger, J.D. President of the University Ira Katznelson, Ph.D. Interim Provost of the University Amy E. Hugerford Executive Vice President and Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The undergraduate curriculum at the School of General Studies is created and reviewed by the Columbia University Faculty of the Arts and Sciences through a set of committees common to both Columbia College and GS. Each committee is composed of faculty, administrators, and students from both schools. Expand all Collapse all Academic Committees The Joint Committee on Instruction (COI) The Joint Committee on Instruction reviews and approves all changes to School of General Studies and Columbia College curriculum and academic policies, including courses, programs, majors, and concentrations. Co-chaired by the Dean of the School of General Studies and the Dean of Columbia College, the COI consists of six to eight appointed faculty members, two student representatives from each school, and administrators from each school. The School of the Arts, Barnard College, and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences appoint representatives to the COI as well. Questions about the COI may be directed to [email protected]. The Committee on the Core (COC) The Committee on the Core is responsible for all matters regarding the Columbia Core Curriculum. The COC is composed of faculty and administrators, as well as a student representative from both CC and GS. Questions about the COC may be addressed to Toni Gunthorpe-Harding. The Committee on the Global Core (CGC) The Committee on the Global Core is responsible for all matters relating to the Global Core requirement, including determining which courses are approved to fulfill the requirement. The CGC is composed of faculty and administrators, together with a student representative from both CC and GS. Questions about the CGC may be addressed to [email protected]. The Committee on Science Instruction (COSI) The Committee on Science Instruction is responsible for all matters relating to the science requirement and for providing leadership on matters related to undergraduate science education. COSI is composed of faculty from the Columbia science departments and administrators, together with a student representative from CC and GS. The Educational Policy and Planning Committee (EPPC) The Educational Policy and Planning Committee coordinates educational policy across the schools that make up Arts and Sciences. Each semester, the EPPC sets its agenda in consultation with the Executive Committee of the Arts and Sciences, and summarizes the results of its deliberations to the faculty. The EPPC is advisory to the Executive Committee and also collaborates closely with the Policy and Planning Committee (PPC). The EPPC is composed of faculty, administrators, and a student representative from CC, GS, and GSAS. Questions about the EPPC may be addressed to Rose Razaghian. The Committee on Academic Standing (CAS) The Committee on Academic Standing enforces the academic policies of the School and handles administrative and disciplinary matters related to students within the School of General Studies, including students in the Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program. The Committee, chaired by the Associate Dean of Students, consists of the undergraduate and postbaccalaureate advising deans. Three broad categories of cases are reviewed by the Committee on Academic Standing: Student Petitions: for re-enrollment; incompletes on coursework, including deferred exams; exceptions to the rules; or other special petitions requiring approval of the CAS Academic review of student records at the end of each term, with action taken on all unsatisfactory records Reports on student status (e.g., leaves of absences, withdrawals, study abroad, etc.) The Committee is guided by the rules and policies of the School of General Studies, informed by University-wide standards as well as precedent, in reaching its decisions. Appeals to decisions of the Committee that pertain to special petitions or administrative matters should be made to the Dean of Students; appeals to the Committee's decisions to suspend or dismiss a student should be made to the Dean of the School of General Studies. All appeals must be submitted in writing no later than two weeks after official notification of the decision. About the Faculty of Arts and Sciences The Faculty of Arts and Sciences is the institutional home that comprises faculty from the social sciences, humanities, and natural sciences divisions in five different schools within Columbia University. Faculty Listing An A-Z list of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close