Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering (MSAE) Join the Nation’s No. 1 Supplier of Graduates to the Aerospace and Defense Industries Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Mechanical & Aerospace Engr 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Break Barriers With Aerospace Innovations That Take Off Ranked as one of the top programs in the nation by U.S. News & World Report, UCF’s Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering (MSAE) prepares students to work in the forefront of a growing industry. From advanced design to flight controls and engines to environmental considerations, the program’s coursework empowers students to make bold decisions that inspire more efficient and effective aeronautics projects. And with two ways to take courses — on campus or through the UCF Online aerospace engineering program — they will get first-hand experience from industry leaders in a learning format that works best for them. Aerospace engineer graduates can choose to work in a number of industries, including space, defense, air travel and sustainable energy. With a projected growth of four percent through 2028, many employers are already looking for the next generation of leaders. And as one of the top aerospace schools in the nation, UCF’s MSAE sets students on the path to success — taking their career to the next level. Space Systems Design and Engineering Track This track is geared toward students looking to focus their studies in the areas of controls and dynamics, space environment, instrumentation and communications, structures and materials, thermal analysis, and design. Thermofluid Aerodynamic Systems Design and Engineering Track A track for students to specialize in areas of controls and dynamics, aerodynamics, propulsion, thermal analysis and design. Accelerated Aerospace Engineering BS to MS Earn a bachelor’s and master’s degree in aerospace engineering in five years by taking graduate-level courses while simultaneously completing the baccalaureate program. Request Information Highlights No. 1 supplier of graduates to the aerospace and defense industries, including Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Northrup Grumman, SpaceX, Blue Origin, NASA Centers and DoD/DoE Research Laboratories 27% of Lockheed Martin employees in Orlando are UCF grads Projected job growth for aerospace engineers is 4% through 2028 Aerospace engineers have an annual median pay of $116K Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Mathematical Methods in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Explore topics including vector field theory, generalized coordinates and complex variables — contour integration, and Laplace and Fourier transforms and inversions — to solve problems in aerospace engineering. System Control Cover modern control theory and nonlinear systems; controllability and observability. This course emphasizes linear state feedback and state estimators, and compensator design. Intermediate Fluid Dynamics Discuss the kinematics of fluid motion and other concepts such as boundary layer flower, turbulence, circulation and vorticity, and solving for Navier-Stokes equations. Aerospace Skills You’ll Learn Identify, formulate and solve complex problems — using principles of engineering, science and mathematics Develop technologies for aerospace vehicle systems, ranging from aircraft and spacecraft to propulsion systems and satellites Conduct quality control inspections, evaluating the performance of a system and if it achieves the desired outcomes Career Opportunities Aerospace Engineer Compliance Officer Maintenance Engineer Manufacturing Systems Engineer Materials Engineer Mechanical Engineer Spacecraft Designer Admission Requirements UCF’s Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering program is designed for those with a bachelor’s degree in mechanical institution in mechanical or aerospace engineering, or a closely related field. Its curriculum provides advanced knowledge and skills in space systems design and thermofluid aerodynamics systems design — taking graduates’ careers to new heights. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: Resume Statement of objectives Request Information Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering (MSAE) News Check out more stories Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Science & Technology The Crawl Before The Launch Two UCF alums will play a major — albeit painstakingly slow — role in moving the NASA’s historic Space Launch System with Orion spaceship over… Colleges & Campus Aerospace Engineering Student is UCF’s First Matthew Isakowitz Fellow Loubensky Baine is one of 30 students selected from a pool of over 200 applicants for the honor, which is the second fellowship he’s earned… Colleges & Campus Graduation Marks Major Milestone for Student Veterans Three graduating student veterans — an engineer, an intelligence analyst and an electrician turned hospitality professional — share their journey of service and what commencement… UCF Continues Streak as Top Workforce Supplier to Aerospace, Defense Industries Fulfilling the demand for ‘critical, high-value jobs’ across the state, UCF graduates go on to work for industry partners such as Lockheed Martin, Siemens and NASA. Learn more about the success of our alumni Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Aerospace Engineering (MSAE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Aerospace Engineering (MSAE) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida