HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CORE Spring Break Trips 2022 Domestic Southwest Canyon Adventure: Paria Canyon Join CORE as we explore some of the best that the Southwest has the offer! We will spend the week touring the canyons of Arizona and sleeping under the stars as we embark on an adventure of a lifetime. Starting with a stop at the Grand Canyon, we will spend the first part of the trip at one of the most iconic national parks in the United States before heading to Paria Canyon Wilderness. The second half of our trip we will spend backpacking in the canyon walls along the banks of the Paria River. This trip is tailored to the beginner! With our experienced staff as your leaders, we will teach you everything you need to know. Backpacked before? This will still be an exciting trip as explore one highly sought after trails of Paria Canyon. Anticipated Itinerary: Friday afternoon-Sunday: Travel Sunday-Tuesday: Grand Canyon National Park Tuesday-Friday: Backpacking in Paria Canyon Wilderness Friday-Sunday: Travel back to Clemson Your registration fee covers: Group equipment (ex. tents, stoves) Personal equipment (ex. backpacking packs, sleeping bags, but NOT clothing) Transportation Food (overnight trips ONLY unless otherwise specified by your trip leader) Trained leaders Outdoor instruction You are more than welcome to bring your own equipment on a CORE trip. If you have questions about whether or not something would be appropriate for your activity, please contact your trip leader or the CORE office at outside@clemson.edu. PLEASE NOTE: *Mandatory pre-trip meeting: March 9th, 6:00-8:00pm at the Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center* CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster