In This Issue Laughter is the Best Medicine Blake Lynch ’14 is providing comic relief to nurses around the world. Out of Moves Orlando’s affordable housing is a game of chance. Mapping the World Drishtie Patel ’08 ’12MNM ﻿is part of a team mapping the world’s missing roads to provide life-saving resources to people in times of crisis. Dream Maker The recently opened Games and Interactive Media Maker Space fosters creativity and collaboration. Harnessing Power UCF’s Aphasia House and Knights on the Go Café is helping people like Larry Lentz Jr. improve their mobility, language and social skills. Industry Watchdog Since the 1960s, beloved Peanuts character Snoopy has been an icon for safety in the aerospace industry. A Look at the Updated John C. Hitt Library With new study spaces, technology and seating, the additions to the library are intended to help students focus on collaboration and studying. How to Hunt a Killer The work being done by researchers at UCF and Arecibo Observatory could help protect our planet from a fatal impact. Why I Ride a Bike There is a special kind of freedom one can experience only by riding a bicycle state line to state line. On Campus: Spring 2020 From a historic season for men’s soccer to the launch of Knights Pantry on the Rosen campus, here’s a look back at some of the big moments at UCF. The Dangers of Binge-Watching A study led by a UCF professor has found binge-watching could be deadly. Models for Success At the UCF 3D Print Lab, researchers are producing 3D models of patients that help doctors at Nemours Children’s Hospital navigate complex surgeries. Stylish and Sustainable This alum-led startup is taking a stand in the sand to offer more eco-friendly fashion. Helping Public School Teachers Earn Free Master’s Degree The Lockheed Martin/UCF Academy was developed to bolster STEM education and retaining current teachers while building the talent pipeline. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Harnessing Power UCF’s Aphasia House and Knights on the Go Café is helping people like Larry Lentz Jr. improve their mobility, language and social skills. Like "Harnessing Power" on Facebook Tweet "Harnessing Power" on Twitter Spring 2020 | By Camille Dolan ’98 Not all heroes wear capes. Sometimes, they wear harnesses. When Larry Lentz Jr. wears his harness in the Knights on the Go Café, he glides from cash register to refrigerator, serving customers sandwiches, pastries and cold drinks, garnished with a big smile. It’s more than purposeful work for Lentz Jr. — it’s physical therapy. The café harness, suspended from crisscrossed poles, offsets his bodyweight allowing him to wait on customers, but more importantly, helps strengthen his muscles, finetune his coordination, and increase his endurance. Larry Lentz Jr. completes a transaction with a customer at the Knights on the Go Cafe. (Photo by Kim Go) Lentz Jr. was in his late thirties when he received his commercial pilot’s license and soon after had a stroke. He lost not only his ability to fly, but also his ability to walk and talk. He has spent the past decade focused on regaining his speech and mobility with the help of programs offered by UCF, including the café and the UCF Communication Disorders Clinic. Lentz Jr. and his parents, Ruth and Larry Lentz Sr., appreciate the learning environment of UCF therapy services. In these programs, graduate clinicians work under the supervision of licensed therapists. “Larry really likes working with the students,” Ruth Lentz says. It’s a win-win for everybody: students receive supervised clinical hours as part of their curriculum and gain experience treating patients who have conditions that they might not be exposed to in other clinical settings. And the patients benefit from therapy that is innovative and cutting-edge. “Our graduate students are so thrilled to work with Larry,” says Jennifer Tucker, clinical assistant professor in the physical therapy program. “They have seen him make enormous strides in his mobility, and he is such an inspiration to be around.” In addition to the strides Lentz Jr. has made in physical therapy, he also is improving his communication through therapy at the UCF Aphasia House. Aphasia House offers intensive outpatient speech therapy for individuals with aphasia, a disorder that results from damage to parts of the brain and can cause impairment in all aspects of communication. Aphasia House graduate clinician Sean Grace (right) works with Larry Lentz Jr. (left) to complete an exercise for phonomotor treatment, which aims to strengthen Lentz’s ability to manipulate sounds and words. (Photo by Kim Go) While receiving therapy at Aphasia House, representatives from Canine Companions for Independence visited the clinic. Janet Whiteside, founder and director of Aphasia House, encouraged Lentz Jr. to apply for a service dog. The two-year process culminated in Lentz Jr. acquiring Bernie, who had learned 40 commands in preparation of meeting Lentz Jr. “After Larry got Bernie,” says Ruth Lentz, “Aphasia House clinicians worked with him to learn many of the commands Bernie had learned. They make a great team.” At every step of Lentz Jr.’s progress, his longtime friends Doug Etheredge and Stephen Wood have been alongside him. “He has such a natural, jovial, contagious, joking personality that you just want to be a part of his life,” Etheredge says. Lentz Jr. has changed a lot since the day of his injury. What hasn’t changed is his personality. “He has a big heart, big personality, big everything,” Wood says. “He is such a great person.” Lentz Jr. continues to advance in his speech and mobility, far beyond what experts expected during his early days of recovery. “In the past 10 years, we have seen so many new technologies and therapies,” says Lentz Sr. “We have hope that in the next 10 years, something else may come along that can help our son even more.” There is no quick fixes to help Lentz Jr., so he puts in the hard work to continue to improve. “His favorite thing to say if he gets frustrated is ‘One day,’” Lentz Sr. says. “We know he’s saying, ‘I can do this.’ ” “UCF has really been a blessing to us. Aphasia House was just amazing, and the café has helped him in so many ways. I have so much respect for all the therapists and graduate clinicians at UCF.” Ruth Lentz More UCF Stories Why I Ride a Bike There is a special kind of freedom one can experience only by riding a bicycle state line to state line. Models for Success At the UCF 3D Print Lab, researchers are producing 3D models of patients that help doctors at Nemours Children’s Hospital navigate complex surgeries. Out of Moves Orlando’s affordable housing is a game of chance. On Campus: Spring 2020 From a historic season for men’s soccer to the launch of Knights Pantry on the Rosen campus, here’s a look back at some of the big moments at UCF. A Look at the Updated John C. Hitt Library With new study spaces, technology and seating, the additions to the library are intended to help students focus on collaboration and studying. Helping Public School Teachers Earn Free Master’s Degree The Lockheed Martin/UCF Academy was developed to bolster STEM education and retaining current teachers while building the talent pipeline. Dream Maker The recently opened Games and Interactive Media Maker Space fosters creativity and collaboration. Mapping the World Drishtie Patel ’08 ’12MNM ﻿is part of a team mapping the world’s missing roads to provide life-saving resources to people in times of crisis. Stylish and Sustainable This alum-led startup is taking a stand in the sand to offer more eco-friendly fashion. Industry Watchdog Since the 1960s, beloved Peanuts character Snoopy has been an icon for safety in the aerospace industry. The Dangers of Binge-Watching A study led by a UCF professor has found binge-watching could be deadly. How to Hunt a Killer The work being done by researchers at UCF and Arecibo Observatory could help protect our planet from a fatal impact. Laughter is the Best Medicine Blake Lynch ’14 is providing comic relief to nurses around the world. A Look at the Updated John C. Hitt Library With new study spaces, technology and seating, the additions to the library are intended to help students focus on collaboration and studying. Industry Watchdog Since the 1960s, beloved Peanuts character Snoopy has been an icon for safety in the aerospace industry. Models for Success At the UCF 3D Print Lab, researchers are producing 3D models of patients that help doctors at Nemours Children’s Hospital navigate complex surgeries. Dream Maker The recently opened Games and Interactive Media Maker Space fosters creativity and collaboration. Helping Public School Teachers Earn Free Master’s Degree The Lockheed Martin/UCF Academy was developed to bolster STEM education and retaining current teachers while building the talent pipeline. Stylish and Sustainable This alum-led startup is taking a stand in the sand to offer more eco-friendly fashion. How to Hunt a Killer The work being done by researchers at UCF and Arecibo Observatory could help protect our planet from a fatal impact. The Dangers of Binge-Watching A study led by a UCF professor has found binge-watching could be deadly. On Campus: Spring 2020 From a historic season for men’s soccer to the launch of Knights Pantry on the Rosen campus, here’s a look back at some of the big moments at UCF. Laughter is the Best Medicine Blake Lynch ’14 is providing comic relief to nurses around the world. Harnessing Power UCF’s Aphasia House and Knights on the Go Café is helping people like Larry Lentz Jr. improve their mobility, language and social skills. Why I Ride a Bike There is a special kind of freedom one can experience only by riding a bicycle state line to state line. Out of Moves Orlando’s affordable housing is a game of chance. Mapping the World Drishtie Patel ’08 ’12MNM ﻿is part of a team mapping the world’s missing roads to provide life-saving resources to people in times of crisis. Back Forward Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816