Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Requirements for the Ed.L.D. degree involve three general stages: core coursework, elective coursework, and a third-year residency with one of the program’s partner organizations. Ed.L.D. candidates should read this section carefully and consult with their advisers and the Director for Doctoral Studies concerning any questions that may arise. Coursework and Residence Academic requirements include satisfactory completion of the L-100 course series and other required core coursework in the first year; at least 32 credits — including the required Year 2 L-200 course series — in the second year; and completion of the L-300 course series, the residency experience, and the Ed.L.D. Capstone in the third year. Ed.L.D. students have the option to enroll in How People Learn (HPL101) in the summer prior to beginning their program and are required to take Evidence (EVI101) in the summer following the first year of study. Students will coordinate enrollment with the Doctoral Programs Office. Enrollment in How People Learn and Evidence will be counted as part of the program requirements. Please note: at least 16 credits in Year 2 of the Ed.L.D. Program must be completed for a letter grade in order to assess satisfactory academic progress. Ed.L.D. students are expected to be in residence for the first two years of study. Transfer credit is not accepted. Annual Academic Progress Review HGSE requires that all Ed.L.D. students maintain academic standards and complete their degree within three years. In addition, the Ed.L.D. Program is intended to prepare leaders for complex systems and organizations. As such, students are expected to adhere to high standards of professional and ethical conduct while enrolled. Ed.L.D. students’ progress will be reviewed by the Ed.L.D. Steering Committee at least twice per academic year. Students who do not meet relevant early benchmarks or who demonstrate difficulty meeting the program’s academic and conduct standards — including the Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community outlined in this handbook — will be informed of the faculty’s concern about their progress. The purpose of this notification is to provide early warning and intervention for students who may be struggling in the program. If an Ed.L.D. student is determined to be making “unsatisfactory” progress following the program’s progress reviews, they will receive a letter from the Faculty Director explaining the reasons for the faculty’s concerns and specifying a probationary period. The student will have an opportunity to discuss the letter with the Director for Doctoral Studies and/or program Faculty Director and should work with their adviser to get the help needed to return to good standing. The student will be expected to report back to the faculty about their progress within the time specified in the letter. If there is insufficient evidence of adequate performance, or if there are serious concerns about a student’s conduct, behavior, or capacity to succeed, particularly in a third-year residency, the faculty may vote to terminate the student’s degree candidacy. The Ed.L.D. Program staff monitors and apprises the Ed.L.D. Steering Committee of all students’ academic progress within the degree program. Criteria for satisfactory performance in the Ed.L.D. Program include satisfactory performance and completion of required coursework and credits; maintenance of at least a B+ average with work of A caliber in Year 1 and Year 2 courses (see HGSE Grading System section of this handbook for an explanation of the grading system and how averages are calculated); a holistic assessment of the student’s readiness to fulfill the requirements of and complete the third-year residency (see above); and adherence to the Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community outlined in this handbook. Please note that a grade of “NCR” is not considered satisfactory academic performance in the Ed.L.D. Program. Ed.L.D. Residency and Capstone The Ed.L.D. residency is a required ten-month leadership development experience in which Ed.L.D. candidates lead a strategic project with an Ed.L.D. partner organization. The residency is an occasion to practice and demonstrate the skills of system-level leadership in a setting where actions matter: to the education of a developing leader; to the current performance and future potential of a particular educational organization; and to the learning of the American education sector as a whole. The Ed.L.D. Capstone is a descriptive, analytic, and reflective account of an Ed.L.D. student’s leadership of and contributions to a strategic project during residency. It is a demonstration of the student’s ability to diagnose challenges, develop strategies to successfully address the challenges, work towards a vision and goal, engage others, and learn from the results. The Capstone is composed of multiple written documents that form a sequential and iteratively constructed portfolio developed throughout the ten-month residency. The Capstone serves as an integral part of the third-year residency experience. Ed.L.D. candidates can find more information about residency and Capstone requirements in the Ed.L.D. Capstone Handbook, made available to third-year students on an annual basis. Co-Curricular Learning Opportunities Following completion of the Year 1 core curriculum, Ed.L.D. students become eligible to serve as Teaching Fellows (TFs), Research Assistants (RAs), and Professional Education facilitators at HGSE and other Harvard Schools. Due to the program’s unique academic demands, Ed.L.D. students are not eligible to serve as TFs, RAs, HGSE advisers, or Professional Education facilitators during Year 1 or Year 3 of the program. There are no exceptions to this policy. Year 2 Ed.L.D. students do not need program permission to serve as TFs, RAs, HGSE advisers, or Professional Education facilitators if the total time commitment (for the combination of all Harvard employment) is 20 or fewer hours per week during the academic year. This equates to to no more than two 1.0 TF “slots” per semester, as each 1.0 slot requires approximately 10 hours of work per week. All Ed.L.D. students must be in good academic standing in order to serve as a TF, RA, HGSE adviser, or Professional Education facilitator. Earning an Ed.M. Candidates for the Ed.L.D. degree are not eligible to receive an Ed.M. from HGSE. Students who withdraw or whose candidacy is terminated may be eligible for a terminal Ed.M. if they have completed the academic requirements. Students who are academically eligible for a terminal Ed.M. must apply for the degree within three years of their termination or withdrawal from the Ed.L.D. program. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice