Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>About>Give Give BAYLOR GIVE LIGHT CAMPAIGN The Give Light Campaign has a bold vision to establish the Honors Residential College (HRC) as a world-class residential learning facility. Having demonstrated the effectiveness of the living-learning model for over a decade, the HRC has the reputation and momentum to be one of the best honors facilities in the nation, serving Baylor by attracting some of the brightest young intellectuals both nationwide and globally. CLICK HERE to learn more about the HRC and its role within the Give Light Campaign. HONORS COLLEGE Your contribution to the Honors College and/or Honors College programs will ensure that students continue to receive the fine education for which the Honors College is committed to providing. You may direct your contribution to the: Honors College Excellence Fund What is an excellence fund? In contrast to an endowment, excellence funds are current funds that are used on an annual basis. The purpose of the excellence funds listed above is to aid Honors College students and faculty in the integration of learning and research. How will my contribution aid the Honors College? Contributions to the fund will provide for the following: Faculty-led mission trips for students in the United States and abroad Students attendance at professional conferences to present their own research Summer internships for students at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Lecture series featuring distinguished scholars and public intellectuals Advertising and promotional material for the recruitment of students Teaching grants to assist faculty in the development of new courses or to take fresh approaches to already-existing courses Library funds to purchase materials for the research and writing of senior thesis projects. The Honors College always is excited about sharing our students' and faculty achievements with others. So, updates regarding the allotment of funds will be shared with contributors. We're certain that you, too, will be proud of those who have chosen the pursuit of knowledge "with Honors." GIVING TO THE HONORS COLLEGE Donate Online You may submit a donation via the Web at www.baylor.edu/giving/honorscollege, and you may designate to which fund you would like to make your contribution. Donate by Mail If you would like to donate by mail, be sure to designate that your contribution is for the Honors College. Contributions may be sent to: Baylor University Office of Gift Accounting One Bear Place #97050 Waco, TX. 76798-7050 Matching Gifts Your company may have a matching gift program that could double or even triple your donation. Check with your Human Resource Department or office manager for forms and/or additional information. An Honorable Legacy If you are considering a substantial donation to the Honors College, there are several options: Planned gifts through wills, charitable trusts, life insurance, pooled income funds, or charitable gift annuities Immediate tax-deductible gifts of cash, stocks, or other assets In accordance with your personal interests, your donation can be made anonymously or with recognition. CONTACT Contact our chief development officer, David Cortes, to discuss donation methods that would work best for you. About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give