Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES HISTORY HISTORY OF AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HSTAFM 151 Africa in the Era of the Atlantic Slave Trade (5) I&S, DIV S. SMALLWOOD Explores the African past from c. 1400 through the end of the nineteenth century. Uses the emerging evidence of historical, linguistic, and archaeological analysis to think critically about lingering notions that Africa and its peoples are static and unchanging, primitive and simple, and best understood in terms of racial difference. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 151 HSTAFM 152 Introduction to African History, c. 1880 - Present (5) I&S, DIV Examines Africa's pasts from approximately 1880 to the present. Through the theme of the politics of wealth, explores the history of European colonization, African social and cultural life under colonial rule, anti-colonial movements and decolonization, and the changes and challenges of the post-colonial present. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 152 HSTAFM 161 Survey of the Muslim Near East (5) I&S The Middle East (the Arab countries, Israel, Turkey, Iran, and Afghanistan) from the emergence of Islam in AD 622 to the present: culture, economics, politics. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 161 HSTAFM 162 History of the Islamic World, Fifteenth-Eighteenth Centuries (5) I&S, DIV Eric W. Johnson Examines the history of the Islamic World during the age of mighty empires in Turkey, Persia, and South Asia. Highlights the powerful rulers, vibrant cultures, and human achievements of these states, while also exploring the region's ethnic, linguistic, religious, and sectarian diversity and conflicts. Uses political, social and cultural approaches to engage both the broad sweep and the personal stories of this history. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 162 HSTAFM 163 The Modern Middle East (5) I&S, DIV Provides an introduction the politics, society, and culture of the Middle East since the 19th century and through the present. Aims to foster an understanding of imperial power and anti-imperialism, ethnicity and sectarianism, religious and secular sociopolitical movements, authoritarianism, and the transformations wrought by modernity and economic development. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 163 HSTAFM 261 The Crusades: Middle Eastern Perspectives (5) I&S Examines the impact of European Christians on the Middle East, from the establishment of the County of Edessa (1097) to the fall of Accon (1291). Explores how Muslims understood, reacted, and adapted to the crusades and how the close encounter with the "Franks" transformed medieval Middle Eastern societies. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 261 HSTAFM 263 Identity and Politics in the Modern Middle East (5) I&S, DIV Arbella Bet-Shlimon Explores how people in the modern Middle East think about nation, religion, ethnicity, and the role of identity in politics. Examines topics in the social and political history of the modern Middle East, including Islamism, Zionism, anticolonialism, pan-Arab nationalism, Middle Eastern encounters with the West, resistance to authoritarianism, and oil modernity. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 263 HSTAFM 268 Wars in the Modern Middle East (5) I&S Examines the political, social, and cultural impact of war on Middle Eastern societies. Focuses on how the preparation for, conduct of, and aftermath of wars have affected the region. Examines the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, the Algerian War of Independence, the Lebanese Civil War, and the First Gulf War (1991). View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 268 HSTAFM 278 Modern North Africa (5) I&S, DIV History of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya since the seventeenth century. Includes imperialism and local responses, development of national identities, the evolving role of Islam in politics and society, experiences of religious and ethnic minorities, impact of and on French culture, North African diaspora communities, and connections with the rest of Africa and the Middle East. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 278 HSTAFM 288 Introduction to the Horn of Africa (5) I&S, DIV Joel T Walker, Hamza M. Zafer Explores history, culture, and peoples of the Horn of the Africa. By placing Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Somalia at the center of inquiry, invites reconsideration of standard narratives of world history that all too often ignore or marginalize the region. Includes a broad range of assignments examining art, literature, and societies of the Horn, including vibrant Diaspora communities in America. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 288; A. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 288 HSTAFM 314 History of Modern Israel/Palestine (5) I&S, DIV Cultural, social, and political histories of Palestine, the Land of Israel, and the State of Israel; Zionist and Palestinian nationalist movements, in their larger regional, transnational, and global contexts. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 314. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 314 HSTAFM 361 Middle Eastern History, 1453-1800 (5) I&S Schwarz Introduction to the early modern period in the Middle East, including an exploration of the political, economic, and cultural dominance of the Ottoman Empire and Safavid Iran. Explores the political and social dynamics and economic transformations of the two empires. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 361 HSTAFM 451 Eastern and Central Africa Since 1500 (5) I&S Explores the history of Eastern and Central Africa from the period prior to the slave trade through European colonialism to the post-colonial present. Focuses on political, economic, and social change and continuity. Emphasis on understanding how various historical actors and historians have interpreted these processes. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 451 HSTAFM 452 Southern Africa Since 1500 (5) I&S, DIV Explores the history of Southern Africa from pre-colonial social institutions through European colonialism and industrialization to the post-apartheid present. Focuses on the interplay between race, class, ethnicity, and gender in the structuring of political relations. Emphasis on understanding how various historical actors and historians have interpreted these processes. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 452 HSTAFM 453 Health and Illness in Africa (5) I&S Explores health and illness in Africa from the nineteenth century to the present. Focuses on the influence of colonial and post colonial history on patterns of health and health care in sub-Saharan Africa. Analyzes Western representations of health and illness in Africa. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 453 HSTAFM 459 History of Jewish-Muslim Relations (5) I&S, DIV Topics include Jews' and Muslims' linked encounters with empire, westernization, and nationalism; Jewish culture and identity in Islamic contexts migration and diasporic identities; the impact of Zionism, European Jewish settlement in Palestine, and the State of Israel on Jewish-Muslim relations in the Middle East and beyond; Islamophobia and antisemitism. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 459. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 459 HSTAFM 461 History of the Middle East: 622-1300 (5) I&S Political and economic analysis of the period circa AD 600, preliminary to rise of Islam, to arrival of the Turks. Muhammad's teaching and impact; Islamization and Arabization. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 461 HSTAFM 462 History of the Middle East: 1258-1798 (5) I&S Conquests by successors of Ghengis Khan; creation in Egypt, Syria, and Iran of cavalry-based states; domination of political, social, and economic history by Ottoman and Safavid empires. The Napoleonic invasion. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 462 HSTAFM 463 Modern Persian Gulf (5) I&S, DIV A. Bet-Shlimon Introduction to the histories of Arabian Peninsula states, Iraq, Iran, and their linkages since the eighteenth century. Topics to be covered include imperialism and its legacies, political economy of oil, governmental structures and political transitions, identify formation, political ideologies, urbanization, and relations with the broader Middle East and Indian Ocean. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 463 HSTAFM 465 Iran, Afghanistan and Central Asia, 1750-2001 (5) I&S Introduction to the modern history of the Islamic republics of Iran and Afghanistan and the secular republics of Central Asia from 1750 to 2001. Includes discussion of colonialism, the role of the U.S., and diaspora and exile in these predominantly Muslim societies. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 465 HSTAFM 490 Topics in African and Middle Eastern History (5) I&S Examines special topics in African and Middle Eastern history. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 490 HSTAFM 552 Field Course in African History (5) Methodological and conceptual issues in African historiography, focusing on 1500 to the present. Examines topics including pre-colonial politics and economics, slavery and the slave trades, European conquest and colonization, resistance movements and nationalist politics, and post-colonial debates and dilemmas. Special attention to issues of gender, race, ethnicity, and class. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 552 HSTAFM 559 History of Jewish-Muslim Relations (5) Topics include Jews' and Muslims' linked encounters with empire, westernization, and nationalism; Jewish culture and identity in Islamic contexts migration and diasporic identities; the impact of Zionism, European Jewish settlement in Palestine, and the State of Israel on Jewish-Muslim relations in the Middle East and beyond; Islamophobia and antisemitism. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 559. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 559 HSTAFM 561 Islamic History (3-6, max. 6) Field course. Introduction to advanced study in the major periods and problems of Islam. Bibliographical guidance is stressed. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 561 HSTAFM 562 Ottoman History (3-6, max. 6) Field course. Introduction to the major periods and problems of Ottoman history, 1300-1914, by acquainting the student with the major works in at least two languages. An attempt is made to teach some use of Ottoman materials. A minor problem is investigated in detail by every student. Prerequisite: knowledge of at least one major language besides English (French, German, Russian, or other). View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 562 HSTAFM 563 Modern Near East (3-6, max. 6) Field course introducing the student to the major periods and problems of Near Eastern history, 1798 to the present. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 563 HSTAFM 570 Readings in Israel/Palestine Studies (5) Survey of significant scholarly texts on Israel and Palestine during the 19th-21st centuries. Topics may include: Jewish and Middle East context; medical and environmental history; economic history; intellectual history of Zionism and Palestinian nationalism; cultural history. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 570. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 570 HSTAFM 590 Seminar on Special Topics and Middle Eastern and African History (5, max. 15) Seminar on selected topics in the history of the Middle East and Africa. View course details in MyPlan: HSTAFM 590 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022