COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. Celebrating women who have helped build Shocker Nation March 1, 2022 — From its early days as Fairmount College, Wichita State University has celebrated a rich history of women who have worked to build a better community and a better world. In commemoration of Women’s History Month, we’ve compiled a list of just a few of the women who have contributed to the greatness of Shocker Nation. Adelante Scholar talks about her journey to WSU Jan. 24, 2022 — Valeria Paunetto, originally from Puerto Rico, won the Adelante Scholarship in 2021, which has helped her pursue a degree in social work at Wichita State. College of Applied Studies appoints assistant dean for diversity and outreach Jan. 10, 2022 — Dr. Bobby Berry has been named assistant dean for diversity and outreach for the College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University. WSU announces new esports director Dec. 7, 2021 — The College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University announced today that Travis Yang has been hired as the new director of varsity esports. First-gen student receives life-changing scholarship -- here's how he did it Nov. 24, 2021 – It was a bright and sunny afternoon in August 2021 when Pedro Piña-Guerrero received a call that would change his life: He had won the Adelante Scholarship to attend Wichita State University. Widener Global Leaders Program announces advisory board Oct. 7, 2021 -- The Widener Global Leaders Program, a new, year-long, interdisciplinary program housed in the W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University, has compiled a dynamic and diverse group to serve on its industry advisory board. Wichita State Cherokee class helps students broaden their worldview Oct. 1, 2021 — Before he could even walk, JW Webster could do something only a handful of other people in the world could do: speak the Cherokee language. Today Webster is one of only 1,200 people who can fluently read, write and speak the indigenous language — which is ranked as one of the most difficult languages to learn. In August, Webster’s sacred knowledge became part of Wichita State University’s applied linguistics program through a new class, Elementary Cherokee I (LING 590). Wichita State, WSU Tech announce fall enrollment numbers Sept. 30, 2021 -- Enrollment for fall 2021 at Wichita State University and WSU Tech is showing strong growth despite a decline in 2020 caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of thousands of local jobs. Men of Color: Educators of Tomorrow program launched at Wichita State Sept. 16, 2021— The Wichita State University College of Applied Studies announced today the launch of Men of Color: Educators of Tomorrow, a new mentor education program for young men of color interested in pursuing careers in teaching and other education-related paths. Widener Global Leaders Program to transform Wichita State students Sept. 8, 2021 — A new, yearlong, interdisciplinary program focused on developing women leaders with a global, innovative mindset will start this fall at the W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University. The Widener Global Leaders Program, made possible by a gift from Peri Widener, is designed to create a transformational experience and foster an inclusive community for women majoring in business, communication or fine arts. WSU researcher awarded $100K from NEH for accessibility app Aug. 26, 2021 — The National Endowment for Humanities (NEH) has awarded a Wichita State University researcher $100,000 for his work on developing an app that allows visually impaired people to read comic books and graphic novels. Shocker Promise will cover tuition and fees for eligible Sedgwick County freshmen Aug. 19, 2021 -- Starting fall 2022, any qualified high school senior who is a resident of Sedgwick County will be eligible to receive a scholarship covering unmet tuition and fee costs to attend Wichita State University. Scholarship aimed at underrepresented students welcomes inaugural class Aug. 19, 2021 — As the fall 2021 semester begins, the 21 students in the inaugural class of Adelante Scholars have begun their careers as Wichita State University students. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©