Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Home Academics Research Outreach Patient Care Careers About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors School of Health Professions Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions Academics Academics The School of Health Professions is comprised of eight academic units, combining to offer more than 25 programs at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, in addition to several certificate programs. Departments Programs Admissions & Aid Interprofessional Education International Experiences Clinical Education KU Core Student Handbook Accreditation Research Research The School of Health Professions is recognized for its highly ranked programs where faculty conduct cutting-edge research and instill in their students a curiosity for scientific inquiry. Lab Groups Research Resources Pilot Grant Program KU Experts Outreach Patient Care Patient Care Learn alongside health care leaders at one of the top academic medical centers in the country. Clinics Faculty Practice and Community Partnerships Rural Faculty Practice Careers Careers The School of Health Professions is comprised of eight academic units, combining to offer more than 25 programs at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, in addition to several certificate programs. Job Placement Career Paths Resources for Students About About The School of Health Professions is comprised of eight academic units, combining to offer more than 25 programs at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, in addition to several certificate programs. Leadership Board of Advocates Our Faculty Faculty Committees and Meetings Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News & Events Campus Life History Contact Us Make a Gift 25+ health care programs. One mission of excellence. That's KU School of Health Professions. Explore Our Programs Research Areas In-Demand Careers 5 graduate programs ranked in the top 15 nationally 25+ Undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs provide career options Health care professions are projected to grow by 15% from 2019 to 2029 School of Health Professions Explore myriad opportunities in health care at KU School of Health Professions. Our students build rewarding careers in clinics, labs and classrooms, and in rural, urban and international venues—anywhere their skills take them. Discover how KU School of Health Professions is investigating the challenges of health care. Research Research Our faculty members provide care in the community while teaching the next generation of health care providers. Patient Care Patient Care We’re committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive campus that nurtures personal and professional development. Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Latest News Kindergarteners benefit from bike program initiated by KU Medical Center faculty. 2022 hooding and recognition ceremonies return to in-person event at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall on May 14. Program to create health science learning opportunities for underserved Kansas high school students. Older adults who are regular avocado consumers have better cognitive abilities. See all news Latest News Class of 2022 enjoys a return to in-person graduation ceremonies Read more Contact Us Questions about the School of Health Professions? We'll be happy to help. Contact Us KU School of Health Professions KU School of Health Professions KU Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Blvd Mailstop 2007 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5235 • 711 TTY healthprofessions@kumc.edu KU Health Professions Facebook KU Medical Center School of Medicine School of Nursing Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.