Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Transfer Credit Academics Academic Programs Colleges Credit by Exam Transfer Credit Course Equivalency Guides Reverse Credit Transfer Supplementary Course List Transfer Plans Transferology TRANSIT Soar in 4 Honors Program Learning Communities You deserve some credit. Nice job being proactive and starting your academic adventure early! If you are looking to transfer credits, you’re not alone. We help students like you every day. Nearly 73 percent of first-year students come here with credit, and 16 percent of our student body is made up of transfer students. Will Your Credits Transfer? Taking a course from a regionally accredited post-secondary institution will normally transfer to Iowa State if they are comparable to courses offered for academic credit here or would earn academic credit if they were offered. A general rule of thumb, college-level courses where you have passing grades are acceptable for transfer. Some departments may require at least a "C" grade for a specific course to be applied to the degree program. For information on military credit, go to the Veteran and Military Students page. How Will Your Credits Transfer? Evaluation of transfer credit is a two-step process: When you apply, we will review the coursework you took at another institution to determine whether it’s acceptable for transfer. You’ll receive information on how to view your Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) form in AccessPlus. The TCE will tell you which courses have been accepted for transfer. Reach out to your college representative as soon as possible after receiving the TCE to discuss how the credits accepted for transfer apply to your degree program. Each of Iowa State's colleges determines which transfer credits meet requirements for its degrees. For example, a chemistry course that counts toward the graduation requirement for a chemistry major in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences may not fulfill a graduation requirement for majors in the College of Engineering. Learn More About Transferring Credits How to read your TCE Additional Transfer Options Current Iowa State Students If you are a current Iowa State student and you're looking to complete courses to transfer back to Iowa State, please go to the Registrar's Office website for additional information. Project Lead the Way (PLTW) College Credit Have you taken a PLTW course and received college credit from another institution? All you have to do is request that your transcript be transferred to us to review. Learn More Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...