Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Admissions U.S. Military Veterans U.S. Military Veterans The School of General Studies has been educating military veterans for more than 70 years. Since World War II, GS has served veterans who interrupted their educations to serve their country. Like most of the more than 2,000 students at GS, these military service members have, for personal or professional reasons, interrupted their education, never attended college, or are only able to attend part time. They bring a wealth of life experience to the classroom, and contribute in a unique way to the diversity and cultural richness of the University. GS is a proud participant of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Yellow Ribbon Program. The scope of benefits provided by the Post 9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program helps make a traditional Columbia education accessible to eligible veterans, regardless of socioeconomic status, who wish to pursue a rigorous undergraduate degree program. Expand all Collapse all Veterans Benefits Prospective and admitted GS students should consult the Financial Aid for U.S. Military Veterans page for more information. If you or one of your family members are a military veteran, you may obtain information regarding educational opportunities, the GI Bill®, and the Veterans Educational Assistance Program by consulting the GI Bill website, the education office at the nearest base, or the Department of Veterans Affairs Regional Office, P.O. Box 4616, Buffalo, NY 14140; (888) 442-4551. For information on veterans benefits for New York State residents, contact Nedra Gordon, Office of the Registrar, 210 Kent Hall, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027; (212) 854-2515. If you have never received any VA education benefits, you must bring a copy of your DD214 form (photocopies are acceptable) to the Office of the Registrar, 210 Kent Hall. The Office of the Registrar will fill out a VA 22-1999 form and send it to the Veterans Benefit office. Reserves or National Guard If you have never received any VA education benefits, you must bring a copy of your Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE) form (photocopies are acceptable) to the Office of the Registrar, 210 Kent. The Office of the Registrar will fill out VA form 22-1999 and send it to the Veterans Benefit office. Dependent of a Veteran If you already have a VA file number and information stating that you are eligible for benefits, you should bring all your information to the Office of the Registrar in 210 Kent Hall. If you have not already received a file number and eligibility information from VA, please contact the regional office for information. Many questions may be answered by visiting the VA website. Transitioning Out of Military Service Transitioning Out of Military Service ROTC Columbia participates in the Army, Air Force, and Naval ROTC programs. These programs include students from schools throughout the New York City area. The New York City Army ROTC program is based at Fordham University. The New York City Air Force ROTC program is based at Manhattan College. The New York City Naval ROTC program is based at SUNY Maritime College in the Bronx. History of the Military at GS The School of General Studies traces its origins back to the mid-19th century when it was called Extension Teaching. Extension Teaching enrolled part-time students, professionals, and the general public in a "Literary and Scientific Course" offered in the evenings. Eventually renamed University Extension, the school began granting the Bachelor of Science degree in 1921. In 1947, to meet the needs of thousands of military personnel returning from World War II, University Extension was restructured and designated the School of General Studies. The new college's mission was to educate adults who, in addition to having an average of 5 to 10 years of life experience, had career demands and/or family responsibilities while pursuing their educations. The college began awarding Bachelor of Arts degrees in 1969. Today, GS serves top-quality, degree-seeking undergraduates who have had a break of one year or more in their educations. Red, White, & Light Blue: A Brief History of the Military at Columbia The following originally appeared in the Spring 2008 issue of The Owl During the American Revolution, the fate of Columbia University, like the fate of the United States itself, hung in the balance. Although some King’s College students fought for the colonies—such as Alexander Hamilton, who spent his mornings drilling with a volunteer militia before classes—most professors and students were Loyalists, including British spy John Vardill and College President Myles Cooper, who was driven out of his home and back to England by a Revolutionary lynch mob. An interim president briefly took over, but after classes were suspended from 1776-1784 and College Hall used as a hospital by occupying British forces, the postwar viability of the young school was in doubt, until a new charter and a name change offered a fresh start. Columbia participated far more modestly in the U.S.’s 19th-century wars, including, somewhat surprisingly, the Civil War, which claimed the lives of two percent of the nation’s population. Columbia students enlisted at rates far below those of students at other colleges, and less than a dozen alumni died in battle. By 1917 a more prominent, more diverse University was able to present a more comprehensive response to World War I with Extension Teaching offering classes in trench warfare and vegetable gardening (for victory gardens), among numerous other topics. The University also hosted a branch of the SATC (Student Army Training Corps, the forerunner to the ROTC) and mandated drilling for all undergraduates in the fall of 1918. Columbia’s response to World War I—and, three decades later, World War II—helped lay the foundation for the modern University. The first Core Curriculum course, Contemporary Civilization, began in the fall of 1918 as “War Aims,” a current-events class for SATC members. The aftermath of World War II brought not only Supreme Allied Commander Dwight D. Eisenhower to Morningside Heights, but also the GI Bill®, a financial blessing for the University, which was still reeling from the Depression. In the years following WWII, half of Columbia’s students were veterans, most in the extension program, which, as its director noted in 1946, “found places for more than three thousand veterans, and it may be said that no veteran qualified to do work on the college level was turned away.” In 1947, partly to meet the needs of returning veterans, including women from the WACS (Women’s Army Corps) and WAVES (Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service), the extension program was reorganized into an undergraduate college, the School of General Studies. Since its founding, GS students have served in all of America’s conflicts and participated on all sides of the debates surrounding them. Sixty years later, servicemembers no longer constitute the majority of the student body, but the school’s commitment remains unchanged: GS continues to be a place where veterans—of other countries’ armed services as well as of the United States—can begin the next chapter of their lives in a supportive community. Photos 1. Dwight D. Eisenhower served as Columbia University's President from 1948 to 1953. 2. Army Air Corps on-campus recruiting event, May 1942. Related Content Financial Aid for Military Veterans The Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Contact Information VA Certifying Official Columbia University School of General Studies Office of Admissions and Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Fax: (212) 854-6316 [email protected] To be added to recipient list for the GS Student Veteran News & Announcements email, complete the GS Student Veteran Newsletter Request Form. University Military and Veteran Affairs Website Veterans Affairs Regional Office U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs Regional Office P.O. Box 4616 Buffalo, New York 14140 Phone: (888) 442-4551 Veterans Readiness and Employment (formerly Vocational Rehabilitation) U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs Regional Office 245 West Houston Street New York, NY 10014 Phone: (800) 827-1000; (212) 807-7229 Fax: (212) 807-4024 GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close