By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Student Experience Shannon Hope Takes in the Full Student Experience The public relations major welcomes every opportunity to engage with her Syracuse University community—at home and abroad. No one can accuse Shannon Hope of not taking advantage of every opportunity Syracuse University has given her. In her time at Syracuse, she’s been an orientation leader, participated in the OttoTHON dance marathon, sang with the a cappella group Main Squeeze, held numerous internships, studied abroad, and participated in an immersion program in D.C. where she interacted with alumni in the area. If it’s tiring reading about it, just imagine how she feels. “I’m a paper planner! I’m very focused and good at time management,” says the California native. It’s a good thing, too. In addition to her busy academic schedule as a public relations major , she’s juggling duties on the executive board of OttoTHON, the Forever Orange Student Alumni Council and as president of Main Squeeze. Hope’s “best semester ever” was when she studied abroad in London , including a trip to Lockerbie, Scotland, which she described as quaint and quiet. There, she and other students visited Lockerbie Academy. “It was one of my most memorable experiences. We came together because of tragedy but there was a sense of community,” she says. Post-graduation, Shannon would like to work in travel and tourism public relations, an area she became interested in during her internships with Princess Cruises and later with an advertising and marketing agency. There, she was able to work on several projects at once, sharing ideas, writing press releases and pitching stories to the media. “That internship really solidified what it is I want to do.” In fact, when the owner of the agency, an alumnus, recently came back to campus, Hope made a point of introducing herself and telling him how much she learned interning for his company. The two later connected on LinkedIn. As she started her senior year, Shannon went back to the start in a way. She was an orientation leader, familiarizing incoming freshmen to the University. “I loved welcoming the new class as both my legacy and as my goodbye to Syracuse,” she says. “Sharing my passion for Syracuse is something I try to do every day. Coming here was the best decision I ever made.” Also of Interest Link Syracuse Abroad Link Take your education global with one of the most established and highly respected international study programs in the nation. Choose your own academic adventure and plunge into hands-on learning, immersive community engagement, unique internships, real-world research and unforgettable experiences. OttoTHON Link In our first year, OttoTHON raised over $152,000 dollars for the kids of Upstate Golisano Children's Hospital in Syracuse, NY. We made ourselves heard and are now the largest student philanthropy in Syracuse University history. Going into our fourth year, the future's looking even brighter and we want you to be a part of it. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy