Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Student Guide Research Research GSAS students engage in innovative research that advances knowledge in the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences. Your professional apprenticeship under a Columbia faculty member and the experience of conducting scholarly research are foundational elements of your graduate education. The university has developed institutional policies regarding research at Columbia and offers a number of resources that will facilitate your research endeavors. Key Contacts Office of Student Affairs 107 Low Library, MC 4304 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4932 [email protected] Research Toolkit GSAS Resources Academic Integrity and Responsible Conduct of Research Graduate students are expected to exhibit the high level of personal and academic integrity and honesty. Institutional Review Regarding Human Subjects Research Columbia University maintains a Federalwide Assurance that regulates our ability to conduct research involving human subjects. External Fellowships Applying for external fellowships can aid both in clarifying the aims of a research project and in the cultivation of grant-writing skills. Conducting Research Abroad Columbia students conducting research abroad must register with International SOS, an emergency services program. Internal Fellowships The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences administers a number of fellowships internally. Library Resources Research Support Columbia University Libraries/Information Services offers many ways to support your research. Digital Humanities Center DHC is a research and instructional facility designed to help faculty and students incorporate computer-based textual, bibliographic, image, and video information. Digital Science Center DSC in the Science & Engineering Library fulfills the vision of Columbia Libraries to consolidate and redefine library spaces for the twenty-first century. Digital Social Science Center DSSC, located in Lehman Library, provides a wide range of information and technology assistance for students and faculty. Global Studies The Global Studies division develops collections from and about many regions of the world in a wide range of languages. Center for Digital Research and Scholarship CDRS works with faculty, students, and staff to increase the utility and impact of their research and scholarship. Scholarly Communication Program SCP supports and raises awareness about new tools, initiatives, and services that may help faculty, students, and staff more effectively communicate the results of their research and scholarship. Library Workshops View a calendar of upcoming workshops on software and methods to support research. Services for Graduate Students In addition to collections, Columbia University Libraries/Information Services provides many services to support discipline-specific technology needs. University Offices Office of the Executive Vice President for Research The Executive Vice President for Research, reporting directly to the President of the University, has overall responsibility for the university's research enterprise. Columbia Technology Ventures CTV’s core mission is to facilitate the transfer of inventions from academic research labs to the market for the benefit of society on a local, national, and global basis. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close