Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Cornell University: Glorious to View Posted on June 18, 2016 Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER 1: Coming here, sometimes you think you know everything. Cornell quickly teaches you that you don't. And I think it's a beautiful struggle we have as human beings, wanting to know so much about the world around us. To be hungry for knowledge. SPEAKER 2: Being a critical thinker, knowing what questions to ask, knowing how to write a story, those are all skills that I honed at Cornell. SPEAKER 3: As Cornell said, I would found an institution where any person can receive instruction in any study, is something that is very much alive day to day here. SPEAKER 4: Being in a classroom environment where you get all of those different perspectives. SPEAKER 5: When we teach, we are enabling rather than teaching facts. SPEAKER 6: I'm walking around this campus. And while I'm studying philosophy or creative writing, there's somebody taking an industrial labor relations class. There's somebody doing veterinarian medicine. There's somebody working on architecture. All right here. SPEAKER 7: When I teach, one of the things that I hope my students get is this curiosity that drives us. SPEAKER 8: The difficult questions, those are the ones that are most worth pursuing. SPEAKER 9: I met people from all over the world, people of all different backgrounds. SPEAKER 10: The gorges, the waterfalls. To me, the campus is a metaphor for never-ending processes of evolution, transformation. Novelty is always around the corner. SPEAKER 11: It's an elite school, but it's an inclusive school at the same time. And it lacks the sort of pretentious air of other elite institutions. And I think really gives it a distinctive identity, a distinctive culture that I find very appealing. SPEAKER 12: This is a very tightly knit community of collaborative, interacting people. SPEAKER 13: Cornell gave me the tools to be able to develop a career based off of something that you really, really love and be successful at that. That's really the best. It's like, what else could you ask for? SPEAKER 14: There's always an opportunity to challenge oneself physically, socially, or intellectually. SPEAKER 15: What we learn here, and what we do here, and what we discover here is much bigger than ourselves. SPEAKER 16: Everywhere you turn, you find people doing stuff that's just at the cutting edge of what humanity is achieving. SPEAKER 17: There's a special connection between me and every single student on campus. Because they're a part of the Cornell family. And that's what I'm a part of. SPEAKER 18: That kind of learning that combines the world and the best of the Academy is truly exciting and transformative. SPEAKER 19: I'm thinking of all these Cornell experiences, meeting and making some of the best friends in my life. SPEAKER 20: I'm always going to be a Cornellian. And that's something really special. SPEAKER 21: Elite and egalitarian. I'm just so proud to be part of the Cornell story. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Experience the beauty and energy of Cornell's Ithaca campus, and learn what makes the university so special – its breadth and depth of academics, spirit of inclusiveness, and commitment to serving the public good. Watch the full version (18 mins) More About cornell history campus life sesquicentennial What to watch next 1:26 MyPlaylist History of Willard Straight Hall 0:55 MyPlaylist History of the Cornell Chimes 4:43 MyPlaylist Firing the Canon: The Cornell Casts and their Discontents surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×