Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Report it About Meet the staff Values Students Making a report Student Conduct Code Student conduct process Academic misconduct Student rights Student resources Faculty/Staff Academic misconduct Report academic misconduct Who to contact Sanctions and grading Tips for preventing academic misconduct Disruptive students Living off campus Community resources Landlord-Tenant Act Respondent Resources Parent & Family FAQ Community Standards & Student Conduct Community Standards & Student Conduct North of 45th Committee Husky Neighborhood Interns Husky Neighborhood Interns What do Husky Neighborhood Interns do? Bring people together & develop community: Interns plan events that help students get to know the people living around them and meet their neighbors. Provide information and resource referral: Interns will help students in the neighborhood know about resources available to address landlord issues, or safety concerns, and let students know about resources both on campus and off campus. Cultivate a student voice: Over 3000 students live in the North of 45th neighborhood. Only those students really know what it’s like to live there, and what students need to be successful academically and personally. Husky Neighborhood Interns act as liaisons between their neighbors and the the University to find solutions to address problems in their neighborhood. Promote civic engagement: As UW students move off campus to the neighborhoods surrounding campus, they have a an opportunity to positively impact their neighborhoods and beyond. Husky Neighborhood Interns plan service projects to help improve the community. Home Husky Neighborhood Interns Living off campus Safety posters Landlord-Tenant Act The Bark Community resources Party planning Contacting the CSSC Team You may reach us between 9:00am – 4:00pm by phone at 206-685-6194. Staff emails can be found here. All other inquiries should be directed to cssc@uw.edu. CSSC and the Student Conduct Code https://uw-s3-cdn.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/32/2022/03/01193759/GMT20220226-002502_Recording_1600x900.mp4 Contact Community Standards & Student Conduct Schmitz 447 Box 355836 206-685-6194 cssc@uw.edu Report It To report an alleged incident of student misconduct, use our Report It tool here. A CSSC staff member will process the report and contact you for further details once the report is received. Quick Links Division of Student Life Health & Wellness Counseling Center UW Police Department For Staff Symplicity Logon University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA