More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar Enrollment Transcript Registration ORC/Catalog Calendars Faculty About Us Request a Transcript View Term Calendar Registration Schedule Final Exam Schedule Related Sites Timetable Change Link Change Link Office of the Registrar Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar 6014 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755-3541 Phone: (603) 646-2246 Fax: (603) 646-2247 Email: registrar@Dartmouth.EDU Registration Registration Schedule Course Priorities Quicklinks DartHub Banner Forms Guides Course Assessment Timetable of Class Meetings Transfer Terms Glossary of Dartmouth Terminology Annual Report Fast Facts about Dartmouth Home > Registration Course Election Reference Guides Instructions for using Dartmouth's course election and registration system, including FAQs. Course Enrollment Priorities Description of the priority system for limited enrollment courses. Credits & Exemptions - Definitions Definitions of how Dartmouth awards Credit on Entrance (prematriculation credit) and Course Credit. Degree and General Education Requirements Graphic of Undergraduate Degree and General Education Requirements. Departments/Programs Using Banner Prerequisite Checking A list of those department/programs using Banner to check prerequisites. Please note that some departments/programs list prerequisites in the Catalog only. In either case, the student is required to meet the prerequisites listed. Expanded Course Numbering System Description of the course numbering system used for special topics courses, and certain other courses related to each other. Individual Instruction Program (IIP) Guide Language Requirement – Effective for the Class of 2026 and later Registration Schedule 2021-2022 2022-2023 Dates and times for course election, course changes and add/drop. Timetable of Class Meetings The most up-to-date source of information regarding courses for a term, especially for distributive and world culture requirements. Writing Courses and First-Year Seminars First-Year Seminar and Humanities 001-002 Descriptions Writing 5 Descriptions Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 3/31/22