Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary THE INFORMATION SCHOOL THE INFORMATION SCHOOL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ITA 340 Introduction to Web Publishing (3) Introduction to markup languages and publishing web content. Students gain understanding of HTML coding and extensions, image manipulation, information architecture, and web site publishing. Other topics include: the Web Accessibility Initiative, survey of Graphical User Interface (GUI) HTML editors, online privacy and security, and eXtensible Markup Language (XML). View course details in MyPlan: ITA 340 ITA 341 Client-side Scripting and Design (3) Introduction to web browser design environment, scripting languages, JavaScript, Document Object Model (DOM), and creation of dynamic HTML web pages (DHTML) in combination with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). Other topics include: client-server architecture and web design principles in the contexts of technical feasibility, usability, and accessibility. Prerequisite: ITA 340. View course details in MyPlan: ITA 341 ITA 342 Introduction to SQL and Data Storage Technologies (3) Fundamentals of database design in a client-server architecture useful for web applications. Subsequent topics build upon foundation by introducing the Structured Query Language (SQL), open source tools MySQL and PHP for database processing, security issues in database applications, and XML as a alternate database storage technology. Prerequisite: ITA 341 View course details in MyPlan: ITA 342 ITA 343 Server-Side Programming and Web-data Integration (3) Provides framework to integrate server-side programming concepts and techniques, database technologies, and client-side scripting to design and implement dynamic web applications. Examines techniques using PHP, design and implementation of database (MySQL) connections, web application security, and XML data publication. Prerequisite: ITA 342. View course details in MyPlan: ITA 343 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022