Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × For International Students Overview Undergraduate Applicants Graduate Applicants Resources for International Students Davis International Center Overview Princeton welcomes applications from students around the world. Tips for international students applying for undergraduate degrees are available on the Office of Undergraduate Admission website. International students considering applying to a master's or Ph.D. degree program can learn more on the Graduate School website. Princeton considers U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens alike in the admission and financial process. In fact, Princeton is one of only a handful of schools in the country that do not limit financial aid for international undergraduates, treating international and U.S. students the same in the financial aid process. Undergraduate Applicants The Office of Undergraduate Admission reviews all applications in the same manner, regardless of citizenship or country of residence. For undergraduate admission, you apply to Princeton and not to a particular department or school. Tips for international students are available on the undergraduate admission website. Photo by Nick Barberio, Office of Communications Financial Aid The full need of all admitted international students is met the same as it is for students from the United States. Your family's ability to pay for your university education is not a factor in our admission decision. Our financial aid program is entirely based on need. Princeton does not offer academic or athletic merit scholarships. English Proficiency If English is not your native language and you are attending a school where English is not the language of instruction, you must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System Academic (IELTS Academic) or the Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic), in addition to the SAT or ACT. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Application and Test Requirements We encourage you to visit the Office of Undergraduate Admission website for a helpful application checklist for undergraduates, as well as information about standardized test requirements and deadlines. Tips for International Undergraduate Applicants Undergraduate Application Checklist Testing Requirements for Undergraduate Applicants Financial Aid for Undergraduates Graduate Applicants Students from around the world are encouraged to apply for graduate admission to Princeton. More than 40 percent of Graduate School students are citizens of other countries. The application to a master's or Ph.D. program is the same for U.S. citizens, permanent residents or international applicants. More information about graduate admission is available on the Graduate School website. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Admission Process Graduate admission decisions at Princeton are made by faculty in your proposed field of study. The Graduate School coordinates the admission process and establishes minimum requirements for admission. You can learn more about the application process on the Graduate School website. English Language Tests Graduate students must demonstrate a level of oral proficiency in the English language sufficient to participate successfully in all the activities that comprise a graduate education, including classwork, research, presentations, project teamwork and the teaching of undergraduates. You can learn more about the Graduate School's English Language Proficiency Policy and get answers to your questions about English language testing for graduate admission. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Costs and Funding Princeton guarantees funding for its regularly enrolled, degree-seeking Ph.D. candidates for all years of regular program enrollment, contingent upon satisfactory academic performance. The funding for master's candidates varies by department. Graduate Admission Process Graduate Application FAQ English Requirements for Graduate Students Costs and Funding for Graduate Students Resources for International Students If you are admitted to Princeton, you can take advantage of the many resources on campus that support international undergraduate and graduate students. During your first days of campus, you also will participate in an orientation program to welcome you to the United States and the University. Visas The Davis International Center helps international students with all aspects of the visa process in order to study Princeton. You can learn more about obtaining and maintaining a visa on the Davis Center's website. English Language and Other Resources Once on campus, you can participate in a variety of social, cultural and adjustment programs that focus on enhancing the well-being of international students, scholars and their families. The Davis International Center and McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning also offers English language classes and tutoring. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Davis International Center Photo by Nick Donnoli, Office of Communications The Davis International Center offers specialized support for international students and scholars to help you adjust to your life at Princeton. Dedicated advisers can assist you with questions about your immigration status and your practical adjustment to the United States. You will have an opportunity to develop social connections and gather information that will help you as you settle into the U.S. culture. Admission & Aid Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice