COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. Meet a Shocker: Emily Crawford May 12, 2022 — Emily Crawford earned her elementary education degree by way of the Teacher Apprentice Program while working full-time and raising five children. Credit Union of America pledges $250,000 gift, recognized as Champion for College of Applied Studies May 2, 2022 — Credit Union of America was recognized today as a 2022 Champion for Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies, honoring its ongoing engagement and financial support of the future educators of Kansas. CUA has pledged an additional $250,000 to the college to continue funding the Corbin Connect program, ongoing technology needs, scholarships, and programming for CAS students. Meet a Shocker: Chonnor Ludolph May 5, 2022 — Chonnor Ludolph was named Mr. Shocker at the athletic department’s Gold Carpet Awards in April, given to a senior who displays excellence in athletics, academics, character, service, and personal development. Ludolph finished third in the American Athletic Conference decathlon in 2021. Chonnor is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Two Wichita State alumni win U.S. Presidential Awards for Excellence April 7, 2022 — Two Wichita-area teachers who graduated from Wichita State University’s School of Education were recently recognized for their outstanding work in the classroom by the White House with the Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. Wichita State students learn backstage at NCAA's basketball showcase March 24, 2022 — Around 12-15 Wichita State students are volunteering for the practices and events surrounding the NCAA women's basketball Sweet 16 and Elite Eight games. Their responsibilities range from organizing practice schedules to decorating locker rooms with NCAA and school logos to working with media members on credentialing and seating. Some will run statistics. For those planning on a career in athletics, the applied learning experience adds to their resume and gives them experience working a nationally recognized event with large crowds and a television audience. Two high school seniors win Wichita State's Klose Scholarship Feb. 18, 2022 — Kelsey Mosiman of Leavenworth and Joel Reyes of Wichita have been named the 2022 Doris and Ralph Klose Scholarship worth approximately $19,000. The two high school seniors competed in a scholarship competition at Corbin Education Center in November 2021, and they will begin their Wichita State education in fall 2022. Catching up with Klose recipient Juan Aguilar Feb. 7, 2022 — Four years ago, Juan Aguilar made a decision that is about to make his last two years in college a whole lot more affordable. College of Applied Studies appoints assistant dean for diversity and outreach Jan. 10, 2022 — Dr. Bobby Berry has been named assistant dean for diversity and outreach for the College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Kennedy Stamm Dec. 8, 2021— Kennedy Stamm was led to Wichita State because she liked the Wichita School District. Now, she will start her teaching job in August after receiving a degree in elementary education. Stamm is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. Meet a Shocker: Valeria Esparza Dec. 8, 2021— Valeria Esparza’s dream was to attend college as a first-generation student. She is now guaranteed a position to teach elementary education as her future job following graduation. Esparza is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. Meet a Shocker: Merry Kirkpatrick Dec. 8, 2021— Merry Kirkpatrick learned how to balance family life and school while earning a degree in the early childhood unified program. She plans to continue working at WSU’s Childhood Development Center following graduation. Kirkpatrick is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. WSU announces new esports director Dec. 7, 2021 — The College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University announced today that Travis Yang has been hired as the new director of varsity esports. Meet a Shocker: Caitlin Nolen December 6, 2021 — Caitlin Nolen, a first-generation student from Edmond, OK, found that getting connected on campus makes being a new student a lot less intimidating. Nolen is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©