Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School People Governance: Graduate Council Graduate School Skip to Navigation Governance: Graduate Council The faculty delegates certain powers with respect to graduate education to the Graduate Council. The Graduate Council consists of the dean of the Graduate School, chair; the associate dean for Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies in the Division of Biology and Medicine; the associate dean of Public Health for Academic Affairs; non-voting; the University librarian; the associate deans of the Graduate School, non-voting, ex-officio; eight other members of the faculty; and four graduate students appointed by the Graduate Student Council. The Graduate Council’s duties are to set policy for the Graduate School subject to the approval of the faculty and the Board of Fellows. Such policy includes the conditions for admission and the procedures for the award of graduate fellowships and scholarships, the supervision of degree requirements, the approval process for new courses and other modifications of existing degree programs, and approval and recommendations to the faculty regarding new degree programs. At least once every five years, the Graduate Council also reviews graduate programs in consultation with the departments and makes annual reports to the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) and the faculty of its activities during the preceding year. Graduate Council Review of Graduate Programs As part of its regular review of graduate programs, the Graduate Council review is tied to the external review schedule. The Graduate Council conducts its review within the two years following a department’s external review. The aim is not to subject programs to repeat scrutiny, but rather to look forward. The Graduate Council asks programs to summarize the results of the self-study, the external review report and the departmental response to the report, as those documents pertain to the graduate program. The Graduate Council will then want to discuss the changes envisioned for the graduate program as a response to the external review. Programs can expect advance notice from the Graduate Council regarding the exact materials that should be provided to the Council as a part of the program review. Home About the Graduate School People Dean's Message Directors of Graduate Study Governance: Graduate Council Presidential Fellows Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants