Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni About Clemson History Traditions Military Heritage Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close About Clemson History Traditions Military Heritage Clemson Home About Clemson Current: Traditions Clemson Traditions Join the Clemson Family, and you join a tradition of tremendous impact. Discover the humble beginnings, ambitious mission and heartfelt connection that Tigers feel each time they take part in one of the University's rituals. Clemson traditions celebrate determined spirit. SOLID ORANGE Every Friday, Clemson students, faculty, staff and alumni everywhere can be found wearing Clemson orange in a show of unity and pride! $2 Bills In 1977, Georgia Tech decided to stop playing football against Clemson. In a show of protest, students and alumni stamped $2 bills with Tiger Paws and used them in Atlanta to illustrate the money Tiger fans spent at athletic events. Today, Clemson fans still use $2 bills when attending away games to show the impact of the Clemson Family across the country. Running Down The Hill Known as the most exciting 25 seconds in college football, running down The Hill began out of practicality. The football team dressed at Fike Field House and ran from there to the gate and down the grassy hill onto the field at the start of each game. Howard’s Rock The rock, originally from Death Valley, California, was first placed on a pedestal at the top of The Hill in 1966, but it did not become tradition until just before a football game against Wake Forest on September 23, 1967. Legendary coach Frank Howard told his players if they gave 110%, they could receive the privilege of rubbing the rock. The team won, and now football players rub it for luck as they run down The Hill to the cheers of thousands of Clemson fans. Alma Mater Salute During Clemson’s early military days, freshmen wore rat caps and waved them in the air during every football game. Today, at the conclusion of singing the alma mater, students and alumni still wave their hands in the air with thumbs folded underneath as though holding a cap. First Friday Parade Since 1974, the First Friday Parade has heralded in each new football season. Students, fans and alumni gather for the parade on the Friday afternoon before the first home football game. “Tiger Rag” In 1942, student band director Dean Ross found the sheet music for “Tiger Rag” in an Atlanta music store and brought it back to campus to play at football games. “Tiger Fanfare” by band director Mark Spede was added in 2003, and today, the band has more than 15 ways to play what’s known as “the song that shakes the Southland!” Clemson Traditions Foster Relationships That Last a Lifetime. The Clemson Ring Since 1896, Clemson graduates have taken pride in wearing their Clemson rings. Clemson rings are designed to honor the land-grant mission, military heritage and connection that ties all Clemson alumni together with the motto, “Who shall separate us now?” Gathering on Bowman Field Named for baseball coach R.T.V. Bowman, the coach of Clemson’s first sports team, the wide field separating campus from the town of Clemson originally served as the traditional parade ground for Clemson cadets, and it is still an unmistakable part of student life. ROTC cadets still conduct drills on Bowman Field throughout the year, and students gather on Bowman Field to relax, play and celebrate special events. Homecoming and Tigerama The excitement, spirit and enthusiasm of Homecoming celebrations have been a Clemson tradition since 1914. During the week preceding the game, Clemson alumni from across the country return to campus. Student organizations build Homecoming displays and construct a house for Habitat for Humanity on Bowman Field. The last event is Tigerama, one of the nation’s largest student-run pep rallies. Tigerama began in 1957 and has drawn a crowd of Tiger fans ever since for skits, fireworks and the crowning of Miss Homecoming. Lover’s Lane Campus legend is that couples who walk hand-in-hand through President’s Park will marry. Clemson Traditions Honor Key University Contributors. Founder's Day Clemson University founder Thomas Green Clemson died on April 6, 1888. To commemorate his contribution to the University, a Founder’s Day ceremony is held each year that includes a prayer service at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in nearby Pendleton, where he is buried. Senior Sidewalks Walk around campus and you’ll see names engraved on the sidewalks underfoot. In the 1950s, graduating seniors began raising money to build sidewalks, imprinting their names and, thereby, their legacy in them. Today, the names of more than 53,000 alumni have been engraved. Clemson Traditions Make Life Sweet. Clemson Blue Cheese Clemson Blue Cheese was first cured in the Stumphouse Tunnel outside Walhalla in 1941 by a Clemson dairy professor who recognized the tunnel’s perfect conditions for curing. In 1958, the curing process was moved to the Agricultural Center in Newman Hall. Today, you can buy the blue cheese at the ’55 Exchange store on campus, in local grocery stores and online. Clemson Ice Cream In the 1920s, Clemson’s then-departments of dairy science and animal husbandry began making the famously delicious Clemson ice cream. Today, the student-run ’55 Exchange store on campus scoops world-renown, student-made Clemson ice cream. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson