Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Communication Menu About Us Faculty Profiles Ashley Barrett Blair Browning John Cunningham Jane Damron Hank DeHay Richard Edwards Jacob S. Ford Jessica L. Ford Matt Gerber Paige Gloeckner Leslie A. Hahner Lacy McNamee Kayla Rhidenour Raechel Russell Hank Sanderson David W. Schlueter Scott Varda Luke Winslow News Events Contact Us Undergraduate Majors Minors Secondary Majors Graduate Masters Program Degree Paths and Coursework Funding and Assistantships How to Apply Joint BA/MA Program Eligibility Requirements Degree Requirements How to Apply Research & Engagement Debate Program History of the Program Prospective Debaters Coaches Debate Alumni Public Debates Summer High School Debate Workshop Debate FAQs Community Engagement and Public Scholarship Student Experience What Students Say Lambda Pi Eta How to Apply Study Abroad Opportunities Alumni Alumni Information Form Department of Communication We are committed to helping our students find their voices so that they can care for themselves and others. Together, we are shaping a better world as authentic, articulate, and persuasive rhetors, organizational members, and storytellers. Explore Undergraduate Programs A Bachelor of Arts degree seeks to provide students with a broad-based understanding of the processes of human communication and the importance of these communication processes in our society. Read More Joint Bachelors and Masters Program The B.A. / M.A. degree in Communication is a traditional 36-hour B.A. degree combined with a 30-hour M.A. degree, enabling high-performing CSS majors on the Corporate Communication track to earn a Bachelor’s and Master’s degree in 5 years. Read More Graduate Masters Program The MA in Communication program at Baylor University aims to develop innovative, articulate, and ethical leaders in multiple fields related to communication and media. Read More Research Our faculty publish in top-tier journals, write books, and produce other forms of engaged research that address the communicative dimensions of leadership, organizing, relationships, technology, media, and public culture. As scholar-teachers, we also share a commitment to cultivate skills in humanistic and social scientific inquiry in our undergraduate and graduate students so that they can productively intervene in the problems and complexities of our social world. Research & Engagement Scholarships Debate Program Baylor in London Faculty News Read More News Dec. 3, 2021 Lambda Pi Eta Holds Ceremony for 32 New Inductees Lambda Pi Eta (the official honor society for Communication) recently held a ceremony for their new inductees. Read More Nov. 8, 2021 Communication Alumni Panel The department hosted an alumni panel where current students asked Communication alumni questions about their career paths. Read More Jun. 26, 2021 Baylor Debate's Proud History Almost from the time when Baylor University began classroom instruction in May 1846, Baylor students have honed their abilities to reason, research and defend ideas and policies through meeting their peers in formal debates. Read More Jun. 26, 2021 Seeing Both Sides For more than a century, Baylor debaters have successfully examined the important issues facing society Read More Events See More Events Department of Communication One Bear Place #97368 Waco,TX 76798-7368 (254) 710-1621 Melanie_Ferguson@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Faculty Profiles Ashley Barrett Blair Browning John Cunningham Jane Damron Hank DeHay Richard Edwards Jacob S. Ford Jessica L. Ford Matt Gerber Paige Gloeckner Leslie A. Hahner Lacy McNamee Kayla Rhidenour Raechel Russell Hank Sanderson David W. Schlueter Scott Varda Luke Winslow News Events Contact Us Undergraduate Majors Minors Secondary Majors Graduate Masters Program Degree Paths and Coursework Funding and Assistantships How to Apply Joint BA/MA Program Eligibility Requirements Degree Requirements How to Apply Research & Engagement Debate Program History of the Program Prospective Debaters Coaches Debate Alumni Public Debates Summer High School Debate Workshop Debate FAQs Community Engagement and Public Scholarship Student Experience What Students Say Lambda Pi Eta How to Apply Study Abroad Opportunities Alumni Alumni Information Form