Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Sponsored Programs Coronavirus Updates Sponsored Programs Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Coronavirus Updates FAQ Updated 5/29/2020 NIH and NSF Accommodations during the COVID-19 Pandemic Applications 3/27/2020 Update NIH just issued notice NOT-OD-20-091 https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-20-091.html to update its policy on late applications. NIH has made a decision to allow applications with due dates between March 9, 2020 and May 1, 2020 to be accepted through May 1, 2020. Institutions need not ask for permission nor write cover letters to submit proposals late as long as they are submitted by the May 1st deadline. Funding opportunity announcements (FOA) that expire prior to May 1st will be extended for an additional 90 days. Deadlines that occur after May 1st will follow standard procedures. 3/24/2020 Update Per NIH Notice NOT-OD-20-082 https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-20-082.html, late applications will be accepted if the applicant organization is officially closed or unable to submit due to complications of the virus. Acceptance will be on a case by case basis. Late applications must be accompanied with a letter detailing the reason for the delay and the application must be submitted as soon as possible after reopening. NSF has already made some changes to deadline dates. The link to review the changes to the solicitations is https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/covid19/covid19_deadlines.pdf . Please check this periodically as NSF will be updating this regularly. OSP will be fully operational during this time. In light of this, late proposals are not anticipated. NIH and NSF Accommodations to Active Awardees In accordance with NIH Notice NOT-OD-20-086 https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-20-086.html, and NSF Implementation Notice https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/covid19/covid19_nsfombimplementation.pdf the following flexibilities will be granted: Pre-Award Costs Will be allowed from January 20, 2020 prior to the date of the federal award. This means that if you have an expected award with a June 1 start date, pre-award costs can be incurred from January 20th through May 30th. You can make use of the Advanced Account form for new awards and for continuing awards, you can work with your OSP Pre-award representative to extend your project dates. Reporting Research Progress Performance Reports can be submitted late due to the effects of COVID-19. You must inform your program official to let them know. The late reports will be accepted, but keep in mind that the grant awards will not be issued until the reports have been received and accepted. Prior Approvals Re-budgeting does not require prior approval unless it constitutes a change in scope. For those NIH awards not under SNAP, you will be allowed to automatically carryover unobligated funds for activities affected by COVID-19. In addition to carryover, awards not under snap can have a one-year extension. The grants officer just needs to be notified of this action. NSF allows a one-time grantee-initiated extension. This can be exercised should it be necessary. Cost Flexibilities Stipends for fellows and trainees can continued to be charged to grants for those individuals who may not be able to work. The grants specialist needs to be notified. Non-refundable travel costs incurred due to COVID-19 cancellations may be charged to the grant that would have supported the travel. This also includes conference registration fees. Closeouts Completion of closeout requirements – technical and financial reports, have been extended for up to an additional year. Grants specialists must be notified. Please work with your OSP Pre-award representative who will help you navigate these changes and will work with you to communicate with your sponsor. Links to other Agency COVID-19 Guidance and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Department of Energy: Memorandum for Applicants and Awardees DOE-NNSA Implementation of OMB Memorandum M-20-17 Department of Defense: Frequently Asked Questions for DOD Research Proposers and Awardees Impacted by the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Department of Justice: Guidance to Award Recipients Impacted by COVID-19: Short Term Relief for Various Administrative, Financial Management, and Audit Requirements Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College