Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioinnovation Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioinnovation Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Bioinnovation Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate Learn the business and science behind new biomedical and biotechnological projects with the Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate from Temple’s College of Science and Technology and the Fox School of Business. The program is intended for those interested in earning practical training in the business side of science. The certificate will prepare you to advance in your career or shift into expanding fields such as biotechnology, pharmaceutical science, public health, technology transfer and science information. Developed with input from an external advisory board of bioinnovation leaders, the program is designed for you to meet the growing demand for cross-trained employees in biology and business. For this certificate, you will focus on the identification, commercialization and dissemination of novel biological concepts, models and technologies. In addition, you will gain the management skills to navigate situations that arise from innovation, such as acquiring funding, creating startups and protecting intellectual property. As this is a relatively small program with limited class sizes, you will receive individualized attention from faculty in both the College of Science and Technology and the Fox School of Business. You will also work closely with peers on small group exercises and projects to strengthen your communication, problem-solving and team-management skills. Over the course of your studies, you will learn how to comfortably interact with clinicians and researchers as well as managers in finance, law, marketing and other fields. Choosing Between the Bioinnovation PSM and the Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate The only university to offer the certificate, Temple's Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate program is tailored for working professionals who cannot commit to the Professional Science Master’s (PSM) due to financial, time and/or other constraints. The 12-credit-hour certificate can be earned over one to two semesters, while the 30-credit-hour PSM takes four to five semesters to complete. Classes & Curriculum Some of the courses in this 12-credit-hour program include Biomarkers and Biotargets: Research and Commercialization; Dissemination of Biodiscoveries and Virtual Reality in Medicine; Epigenetics and Genetics: Applications in Drug Design and Drug Response; Ethics, Regulation and Policy; and Innovative BioModels and Concepts. Learn more about required courses for the Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Bioengineering MS * Bioengineering PhD * Bioinnovation PSM Biology MS Biology PhD Biomedical Sciences MS Biomedical Sciences PhD Biotechnology PSM Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Certificate *College of Engineering Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Department of Biology and the assistant director of the PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Antonio Giordano is a professor in the Department of Biology and the director of the Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-9521 or 215-204-9520 Email: giordano@temple.edu Marcella Macaluso is an associate professor in the Department of Biology and the academic advisor for the Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-9523 Email: macaluso@temple.edu Program Contact Seema Freer, associate professor in the Department of Biology, is the program contact for the Bioinnovation Graduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOI-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioinnovation Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info