Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth News & Events News & Events News & Events Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us UofM Lambuth News and Community Events M. D. Anderson Planetarium News Upcoming Shows Tuesday, May 31, 5:30 AND 6:30 p.m., public show: Two Small Pieces of Glass Friday, June 3, 1:30 p.m., public show: Two Small Pieces of Glass Tuesday, June 7, 5:30 p.m., public show: Hubble Vision Friday, June 10, 1:30 p.m., public show: Hubble Vision Friday, June 10, 3:45 p.m., Summer Afternoon Planetarium Show: Two Small Pieces of Glass Tuesday, June 14, 5:30 p.m., public show: Light Years from Andromeda Doors open 15 minutes before showtime. For safety reasons, there is no seating once the IN USE lights are on. No food or drink is allowed in the auditorium. For more information, call 731.425.7368 or email planetarium@memphis.edu. Facemasks are currently recommended for patrons on the University of Memphis Lambuth campus. Don't forget to LIKE us on Facebook and follow us on twitter, and check for daily posts and tweets, as well as online activities! Two New Scholarships Announced John Edwin Yarbrough Scholarship UofM Lambuth establishes John Yarbrough Scholarship for students in health science. The University of Memphis Lambuth has established the John Edwin Yarbrough Scholarship to benefit students in health sciences/services – the first scholarship in health sciences for UofM Lambuth. Yarbrough is retired from West Tennessee Healthcare where he served as executive director of Physical Therapy. He made sure the Physical Therapy Department set a model of care for the region. "We are thrilled to learn of this new scholarship to support students studying in the areas of health sciences/health services," said Dr. Rick Bloomer, dean of the School of Health Studies. "With a rapidly growing undergraduate program in Health Sciences, as well as plans to add graduate programs in health-specific disciplines, this scholarship is timely and most welcome." To read more about this scholarship from the official media release, click here. G.G. Bray Scholarship P.E.O. Sisterhood endows scholarship in honor of G.G. Bray at UofM Lambuth. The Tennessee Chapter Y of P.E.O. International Sisterhood in Jackson, Tenn., has endowed the G.G. Bray Scholarship for women majoring in education at UofM Lambuth. "We are very excited about PEO's investment in education students at the Lambuth campus," said Niles Reddick, dean of the Lambuth Campus. "This scholarship is particularly meaningful because it honors the much loved G.G. Bray, who was a staff member at Lambuth for many years along with her husband, former athletic director Dr. Charles 'Pepper' Bray." Applicants must be women pursuing a degree in education at UofM Lambuth. One or more scholarships per year may be granted. The amount of each is to be determined by the number of qualified applicants and the amount available in the fund. "We would like to extend our sincere gratitude and appreciation to P.E.O. International Sisterhood for its kind generosity and support as we work to recruit and prepare the next generation of teachers," said Dr. Kandi Hill-Clarke, dean of the College of Education. To read more about this scholarship from the official media release, click here. Arboretum Map UofM Lambuth is a Level 2 Certified Arboretum as designated by the Tennessee Urban Forestry Council. Take a tour with our map. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.