Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Library Departments Library Departments For other Libraries, please visit our libraries page. To contact specific staff, please visit our staff directory. Administration Administration The Library is administered by the Dean of Libraries with the Senior Leadership Team. Assessment: Library Research & Statistics FSU Libraries use data to drive its decision making to improve access, services, and collections for the FSU population. Facilities Facilities Management at The Florida State University Libraries effectively and efficiently provides maintenance and operational services that support the faculty, staff and students in pursuit of excellence in their individual and institutional academic research and community objectives. Financial Services Business Administration oversees the fiscal management of the Libraries as directed by the Dean. This includes everything from planning the budget to closing out expenditures at the end of each fiscal year. Human Resources The Human Resources Team administers human resource activities and functions for the University Libraries and serves as the liaison to the University’s Department of Human Resources and to the Dean of Faculties Human Resources. Marketing and Communications The FSU Libraries Marketing Team is committed to producing high-quality branded materials and content to better engage FSU students, faculty, staff, and the entire scholarly community. We aim to tell the story of the FSU Libraries. Security Library Security staff are responsible for ensuring the safety and protection of all individuals, their belongings and University property. Research and Learning Services Access Services and Delivery maintains and makes accessible the entirety of circulating materials for Strozier, Dirac, and The College of Engineering. Distance LearningWhether you are Off-Campus or in the Library, the Office of Distance Library Services is here to help! Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities SSAH is an interdisciplinary team ready to support scholars across the social sciences, arts, and humanities. STEM Libraries STEM Libraries are a group of librarians and staff that engage STEM scholars across the research, learning, and teaching lifecycles. Teaching, Learning, & Engagement The TLE team champions the success of the FSU community by leading creative collaborations and providing inclusive spaces and services that enhance teaching, enrich learning, and foster student engagement. Technology Center The Technology Center offers the use of its facilities and collections to FSU’s students with the goal of supporting classroom assignments, instruction, and the general support of the university's mission. We offer equipment checkout, media help, technology troubleshooting, and appointment or walk-in assistance at all hours Strozier, Dirac, and FAMU-FSU Engineering Libraries are open. Resource Management and Discovery Services AcquisitionsThe Acquisitions Units coordinate with Subject Librarians and Vendors to purchase materials to be added to the Library Collections. Electronic Resources Management Electronic Resources is responsible for acquiring, maintaining, and providing access to the library's online materials, including research databases, online journals, and ebooks. Discovery Data ServicesThe Discovery Data Services Department supports the mission and vision of FSU Libraries by providing organized access to quality information in all formats and is responsible for the management and integrity of catalog records, the inclusion and accuracy of metadata for electronic and digitized resources, and the reporting and visualization of library collections. Original and Adaptive Cataloging Original and Adaptive Cataloging provides metadata for new books, rare and special collections, gift materials, and non-book formats. We catalog materials in all languages. We collaborate with Discovery Data Services in providing metadata services to all of the University Libraries collections. Interlibrary LoanIf FSU Libraries doesn't have something available for you directly, Interlibrary Loan can have it delivered, usually within days. Special Collections and Archives Heritage & University Archives The mission of Heritage & University Archives is to locate, identify, record, assist in the preservation of, and promote knowledge about the history of Florida State University and its predecessor institutions. Technology and Digital Scholarship Office of Digital Research and Scholarship We offer collaborative partnerships and consulting for technology-inflected research in the areas of digital humanities, academic publishing, and instruction. We focus on connecting people to people and providing tools and content for new forms of scholarship. Digital Infrastructure (Support of Technology Environment)The Systems Department is located on the ground floor of Strozier library. The Department is responsible for maintaining library technology and computers. Web DevelopmentWebDev maintains the website and other library systems which includes content, accessibility, and UX issues. About Us Dean's Welcome Library Hours Staff Directory Departments Giving to the Libraries Visiting the Libraries Facts & Figures Values Advancement Board Collection Strategies Faculty Assembly & Committees About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!