The Department of Philosophy at The University of Houston - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Philosophy About the Department About the Department Affiliated Groups and Programs People People Teaching Assistants Graduate Students Graduate Program Graduate Program Program Requirements and Regulations Applying to the Program Admissions Requirements Financial Support Placement Record Past Graduate Courses Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Program Past Undergraduate Courses Majoring in Philosophy - FAQ Events Events Past Speakers Giving Department News Department News Archive News UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of Philosophy University of Houston Agnes Arnold Hall 3553 Cullen Boulevard, Room 513 Houston, TX 77204-3004 Phone: 713.743.3010 Fax: 713.743.5162 Related Links Affiliated Groups & Programs Philosophy Links Philosophy Why should I major in philosophy? Click here for some answers. The mission of the UH philosophy department includes the education of both M.A. students and undergraduate majors, and many undergraduates take courses in our department to satisfy the University's core requirements. Spring 2022 course descriptions can now be found here. Dr. Yau Wins Prestigious FellowshipClaudia Yau, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, has been awarded a Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship at Harvard University for the 2022-23 academic year. The award supports her monograph project, Wisdom in Plato and Aristotle. Learn More Dr. Oliveira wins Research AwardAssistant Professor Luis Oliveira has won an Award for Excellence in Research, Scholarship and Creative Activity for the 2021-2022 academic year. Only two awards are awarded across the entire UH-main campus at the Assistant Professor level, and this is the third time that members of the Philosophy department have won this award in the last seven years. Learn More University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies