Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Master's Degree Program Foundations The HGSE Ed.M. is built on a strong foundation of comprehensive knowledge that will give you the capacity to drive change across the education sector. Through our four Foundations courses — How People Learn; Evidence; Equity and Opportunity; and Leading Change — you will gain core skills central to the profession of education. With innovative instructional approaches and tools, these foundational courses will foster discussion and analysis of complex education issues and enable you to apply your learning to real-world scenarios. You will build on these foundational experiences as you progress toward your master’s degree and develop personal and professional pathways that align with your chosen area of impact. Through our Foundations, you'll build knowledge in critical areas in education, insights from developmental self-work, and interpersonal skills that will help you communicate, collaborate, and engage in dialogue with fellow cohort members who bring different backgrounds and perspectives to HGSE. Timing and Credits All students working toward an HGSE Ed.M. degree are required to take Foundations courses, which supply 14 of the 42 credits needed to graduate. All Ed.M. students will commence their foundational studies with How People Learn (4 credits), an online course that runs June–July and requires a time commitment of 10-15 hours per week. For residential Ed.M. students, Foundations will continue with Leading Change (2 credits), Evidence (4 credits), and Equity and Opportunity (2 credits) on campus in August. Students enrolling in the residential Ed.M. program should plan to be in the Cambridge area by August 1 to attend these required classes. Students enrolling in the online Ed.M. program will participate in the remaining Foundations courses throughout the two-year program. For all Ed.M. students, the final component of Foundations is an Equity and Opportunity (2+ credits) elective, which will take place during terms when electives are available. Widen Layout: wide How People Learn Education is not “one size fits all” — namely, what works for one age, one type of learner, and one context does not necessarily work in another setting. Our first foundation course, How People Learn, explores the core concept of education, including how people develop through their lifespan; how learners understand and make sense of material; and how you can successfully design, lead, and create systems to support learning and growth.   How People Learn is HGSE’s first “born-digital” class, meaning the experience takes full advantage of all that digital learning has to offer. Complete with multimedia experiences, digital conversations, and individualized content, the course is fully online and can be completed at a distance during June and July of your enrollment year. It is grounded in field studies — authentic problems of practice drawn from international and U.S. sites — that relate to learners of various ages, from early childhood to adulthood. Based on your professional interests and expertise, you can choose which field studies to pursue and how you would like to explore the specific problem of practice they present. Faculty Leads Matthew Miller Eric Shed Catherine Snow Widen Layout: wide Evidence The second in our foundations sequence, Evidence, builds from the competencies developed in How People Learn and turns to critical questions you will face in the field: In a landscape where studies emerge each day, how do we become critical consumers of new information and distinguish myth from fact? How do we make decisions that generate the best possible outcomes for our learners? At HGSE, we believe you need to understand how to gather evidence, how to evaluate evidence, and how to best deploy it in service of improving learner outcomes. While Evidence is not a statistics course, ideas such as using descriptive data and causal data are introduced, along with fundamental questions about what “counts” as data at all. The course focuses on the analysis of evidence, which requires you to understand how to: Organize evidence by questions, use, and research paradigms Learn frameworks for assessing the quality of evidence Apply these frameworks in case-based discussions Faculty Leads James Kim Carrie Conaway Widen Layout: wide Equity and Opportunity Our third foundational offering focuses on Equity and Opportunity. You will start by taking Equity and Opportunity: Identity in Context, which will immerse you in academically and personally rigorous inquiry about one of the following dimensions of social identity: race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, class, language, dis/ability, or citizenship and nationality. You will engage deeply with key concepts around equity, systems of power and oppression, cycles of socialization, identity, and transformation within the context of education. You will also have the opportunity to build meaningful relationships with others, while reflecting on your own educational experiences and actions across cultures and contexts. You will continue your personalized Equity and Opportunity learning by selecting one or more “Special Topics in Educational Equity and Opportunity” courses that align with your program, concentration, or professional work. By the end of the yearlong learning arc, you will have developed core knowledge and skills to advance educational equity and opportunity in diverse contexts across the United States and around the globe. Faculty Leads Meira Levinson Aaliyah El-Amin Widen Layout: wide Leading Change  In order for you to lead teams, champion initiatives, and move critical work forward to improve outcomes for all learners, you must understand how organizations and systems work — and how to generate change within them. Whether you are interested in working in a school, a school district, a nonprofit organization, a university, an entrepreneurial venture, a technology firm, or the national government, Leading Change will provide you with powerful learning experiences, concepts, and tools for leading and managing change. Building on learning from How People Learn, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity, you will learn how to move initiatives forward at the individual, group, and systems level. Since change is rarely accomplished in isolation, Leading Change will focus on techniques designed to build effective teams and cultivate a better understanding of organizational behavior. Faculty Leads Monica Higgins Uche Amaechi Widen Layout: wide In this section Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Master's Degree Program Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice