Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Graduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Incorporate intersectional feminist and queer methods of research and analysis into your scholarly and pedagogical pursuits with the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Graduate Certificate in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. In this 12-credit certificate program, students investigate and develop research about the personal, professional and global impact gender and sexuality has on women and queer communities. Join an intimate and diverse community of students and faculty committed to rigorous academic inquiry into the cultural, economic and social forces shaping our understanding of gender and sexuality. Develop methodological and theoretical expertise in this interdisciplinary field, and build a path toward an academic or professional career in fields such as counseling, education, media, politics and more. This part-time graduate certificate is tailored so students can earn the certificate while also enrolled in a full-time graduate degree program at Temple or another institution. The Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Graduate Certificate can also be taken as a freestanding certificate by those who are not currently enrolled in a Temple University graduate program. Program Format & Curriculum Classes are held at Temple’s Main Campus and students have three years to complete the requirements for the 12-credit Graduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies. Required coursework introduces students to theories and practices of feminist and queer pedagogy. All students complete the following courses. Feminist and Queer Studies, in which students receive an advanced introduction to the interdisciplinary field of gender, sexuality and women’s studies as well as in applying feminist and queer methods of research, analysis and practice in their own disciplines. Research Seminar, in which students present research on topics related to feminist and/or queer issues and/or identities. This is an advanced writing course, and students build a foundation of research skills and perform critical reflection and analysis of the subject matter. Students choose two elective courses that may include the following. Anthropology of Sexuality and Gender Gender and Body Sex and the Political Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies. Careers Contemporary institutions and organizations committed to diversity and inclusion often seek leaders who understand the ways in which gender and sexuality impact our world. The Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Graduate) program can serve as a pathway to doctoral studies, and recent alumni have secured positions in counseling, education, media and communication, nonprofits, politics, psychology, and public relations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Graduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies, contact the following staff members. Barbara Thornbury is the director of the Department of Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies. Email: bthor@temple.edu LaTasha Goodman is the manager of administration within the College of Liberal Arts. Email: lgoodman@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8516 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GSWS-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info