Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Frequently Asked Questions You are here Home About Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Learn more about the Data Vertification Unit (DVU), our process and answers to important questions. Contact If you have questions, contact the DVU at 215-204-5248 or dvunit@temple.edu. What services are included in Service Expectations? DVU will be responsible for the following activities. Validating the accuracy and completeness of data within scope, which includes any factual statement containing statistical, demographic or numerically descriptive data, including, but not limited to, statements made for purposes of encouraging attendance at or donations to the university; and any data submitted to accreditation bodies, government entities or rankings organizations. Providing feedback to the school, college or unit based on verification process. Educating the Temple community on data integrity. Providing tools, templates and resources to support data verification. Maintaining final copies of submissions provided by schools, colleges and units. What services are not included in Service Expectations? DVU will not be responsible for designing queries, pulling correct data, and creating accurate reports and statements. Schools, colleges and units retain the responsibility for the creation of accurate data and statements. How will services be delivered? Schools, colleges and units in need of verification services must submit completed draft requests and provide supporting documentation via an email to dvunit@temple.edu at least three weeks prior to the submission due date. Incomplete submissions* and submissions without supporting documentation will be returned to the requestor for completion before verification will commence. Exceptions to the three-week lead review time will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. If DVU makes attempts to follow up with requestor and a response is not received within four weeks, the request will drop off the list of active reviews. *There may be some circumstances in which partially complete submissions will be accepted (e.g., large multipart accreditation reports that require additional time to verify). These exceptions will be determined on a case-by-case basis. What are the hours of operation? DVU’s regular hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, when the university is open and operating on a normal schedule. Learn more about contacting the DVU. What is the response time for inquiries and requests? Data submitters who submit completed requests for verification services to the dvunit@temple.edu email inbox will receive an initial acknowledgement email within two business days of submission. The initial acknowledgement email will identify the DVU team member to whom the verification has been assigned. The full review and verification process may take up to three weeks, depending on the nature of the submission and how comprehensive it is. How is work prioritized? Submissions be will be addressed in the order in which they are submitted to DVU, subject to the prioritization of critical time-sensitive items as determined by the chief compliance officer on a case-by-case basis. The dvunit@temple.edu email inbox is checked by DVU team members at least three times each business day at 9 a.m., 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. New materials submitted after 4 p.m. will be acknowledged or addressed on the next business day. Who is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of submissions to the DVU? The dean or managerial lead of the school, college or unit is responsible for ensuring the submission of accurate and fully completed requests. The submitter will be required to certify that the dean or the designated representative has reviewed the submission before a submission request can be reviewed. Who is responsible for ensuring DVU work quality? The chief compliance officer is responsible for ensuring the quality of work performed by DVU team members. Go back to AboutMore in Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.