Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Essential Resources » Housing and Dining Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Housing and Dining Options Find your new home in your new home town. As a student at the University of Cincinnati, you have many living and dining options. You can live conveniently on campus or choose from a variety of off-campus rentals. Meal plans to accommodate many diets and budgets offer you on-campus simplicity, and Cincinnati's markets and restaurants add a wide variety of foods to the table, including tastes from home. UC's University Housing office has many resources to help you choose your living and dining options. The Graduate School and some student organizations have also put together useful guides. Here are some places to get started. Finding housing It can be difficult to decide where you will live when you are making your decisions from half a world away. If you are an undergraduate, consider living on campus. It's a good way to feel like part of the Bearcat community. Talk to your advisors and people in your program. They can't give you advice about specific businesses, but they can tell you about their own experiences on and around campus. Don't rely on for-profit or non-local websites that can be misleading, misguided or out of date in their descriptions of Cincinnati neighborhoods. Temporary housing for students right arrow down arrow Plan to arrive as close as possible to your scheduled orientation dates at the beginning of the term so that you will not have to make additional housing arrangements, because UC does not offer temporary housing. If you have a fall housing assignment at UC, you may be able to get into your residence hall early (not more than a month) for a fee. Contact University Housing for more information. To find other temporary housing options, try contacting student organizations from your country—for example, the Indian Students Association. You can search for others through CampusLink. Or you can try businesses like the following. UC does not endorse specific businesses. Rental broker: AirBnB Hotels within walking distance: Fairfield Inn & Suites (Uptown/University Area) Kingsgate Marriott Hampton Inn and Suites (Cincinnati/Uptown-University Area) Nearby hotels: Spring Hill Suites Cincinnati Midtown Courtyard by Marriott Cincinnati, Midtown/Rookwood Residence Inn by Marriott Cincinnati, Midtown/Rookwood Nearby bed and breakfasts: The Clifton House Gaslight Bed & Breakfast On-campus housing right arrow down arrow UC has a variety of residence halls. Most first-year students choose to live on campus for the easy walk to class, to recreation centers and other campus amenities and to the shops, businesses and nightlife that surround the campus. Residence halls also have resident advisors (RAs) who can help out with problems as you get used to campus life. A new option this year is the Bearcats Abroad Living-Learning Community, a block of the University Park Apartments for students who share an interest in global travel, cultures and citizenship. Both US and international students can apply to live in the LLC. Explore on-campus housing Contact Housing Apply for housing Living/Learning Communities Off-campus housing right arrow down arrow Off-campus housing portal The UC Student Government contracts with a listing service to provide a portal students can search for nearby apartments meeting certain eligibility requirements. Virtual tours are available for some properties. Neither UC nor the Student Government endorses the listed properties, so check information carefully before you sign a lease. The renter resources compiled by the Graduate Housing office may also be helpful to you. Search listings Graduate and family housing The Graduate Housing office maintains three apartment communities with studio to three-bedroom options. They also keep a listing of nearby apartments available from private landlords. The university does not endorse the listed properties, so check information carefully before you sign a lease. The Graduate Housing office has compiled several helpful resources for renters, including the Tenant Information Program run by volunteers at the Law School, a list of basic utilities providers in Cincinnati, questions to ask prospective landlords and more. See graduate apartment options Search private listings Explore renter resources Dining and food shopping It won't take you long to find your favorite spots for dinner, coffee or a bite on the go, but don't miss Cincinnati's many food treasures, from hydroponic farm produce at winter markets to mom and pop diners to huge international supermarkets. Campus dining options right arrow down arrow Meal plans are available for both on- and off-campus resident students, and the campus dining centers offer vegan, gluten-free and allergy-sensitive options. There are also two small convenience stores and several coffee shops and quick food stops on campus. Nearby restaurant districts right arrow down arrow Cincinnati is a restaurant town with options for all budgets and tastes. Cincinnati Magazine and Cincinnati.com (the online site for the Cincinnati Enquirer newspaper) include dining sections and best-of features, and of course popular online review sites like Yelp, Zagat and many others let you search by cuisine and neighborhood. These are some neighborhoods with restaurant options that are near campus or easily accessible. Clifton Ludlow/Gaslight District Northside Corryville/Short Vine Over the Rhine Downtown The Graduate School's Get to Know Cincinnati guide offers specific restaurant suggestions in some of these neighborhoods Cincinnati food markets right arrow down arrow You will probably do most of your food shopping in local supermarkets, but Cincinnati has many specialty and international markets that can be worth a special trip. International markets There are two very large international supermarkets in Greater Cincinnati, Jungle Jim’s (two huge locations, all nationalities and food cultures) CAM (Cincinnati Asian Market) and many smaller ethnic markets in Cincinnati, including several Mexican markets, and Mediterranean, Chinese, Japanese, Indian, southeast Asian, central Asian, east European, Russian, African, Latin American and halal markets. Farmers' markets and organic markets These are among the markets closest to campus. Farmers' markets can be seasonal, so double-check their hours before you go. Findlay Market (Tuesday-Friday), Cincinnati's oldest marketplace Northside Farmers Market (Wednesday) Covington Farmers Market (Saturday) Hyde Park Farmers Market (Sunday) Two chains and a local store are popular options for organic food. Trader Joe's Whole Foods Clifton Natural Foods Local and ethnic food festivals right arrow down arrow Local communities and churches host festivals throughout the year and serve some amazing homemade food. Though the pandemic has limited gatherings this fall, watch for these annual foodie traditions: Taste of Cincinnati, the longest-running city restaurant sampling festival Asian Food Fest Germania Society Christkindlmarkt Twice-annual Italian dinner from Sacred Heart Church Oktoberfest Panegyri Greek Festival, Holy Trinity/St. Nicholas Churches Russian Festival, St. George Orthodox Church Taste of Lebanon, St. Anthony of Padua Maronite Church as well as dozens of Friday-night church fish fries during Lent and many more events. Have you tried these Cincinnati specialties? You can hardly say you're a Cincinnatian unless you've tried (and debated!) local dishes like Graeter's or Aglamesis ice cream Cincinnati chili, a spicy-sweet meat or bean chili (from rival chains Skyline, Gold Star, Camp Washington and others) served over spaghetti or a hot dog and topped with bright orange shredded cheddar cheese and optional toppings up to a "five-way" Goetta, a German-American beef- or pork- and oat breakfast sausage fried till crispy Ask your friends about other tastes that mean Cincinnati to them. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top