Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Research SMU Home Research and Fellowships Creating new solutions through research. Research is a top priority for Dedman College, and we promote academic discovery with innovation and collaboration. Students and faculty work together in labs, on research fields, and in academic forums to address issues of local, national, and global importance. Are you interested in developing new cancer therapies, exploring countries in search of dinosaurs, learning how to predict earthquakes, or writing the next great novel? The research opportunities are endless within Dedman College. Faculty Research Student Research Fellowships and Awards Institutes and Centers Research opportunities from day one. Undergraduate and graduate students are encouraged to work with award-winning faculty on research projects from day one. Roll up your sleeves, get involved, and make a difference. Department Research Areas Anthropology Biological Sciences Chemistry Earth Sciences Economics English History Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Religious Studies Sociology Statistical Science World Languages and Literatures Faculty Research in the News Read More Student Fellowships and Awards Dean’s Research Council Explore Institutes and Centers Institute for the Study of Earth and Man Collaborative research hub promoting and supporting the study of people, Earth, and the environment. Read more John Goodwin Tower Center for Political Studies The future of politics, today. Read more Center for Research Computing Educating the next generation of computational scientists and engineers. Read more William P. Clements Center for Southwest Studies Exploring and researching Texas, the American Southwest, and the U.S.-Mexico borderlands. Read more Previous Next pause play hide show Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube