COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy May 05, 2022Talent PipelineInformation TechnologyGraduate ProfilesAccess and AffordabilityManagement Information SystemsW. Frank Barton School of Business Meet a Shocker: Joshua Watts By Sara Ornelas, Marketing Content Strategist Joshua Watts came to Wichita State from Oklahoma City because he was impressed with the university’s facilities and amenities. Joshua is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Oklahoma City Degree Information Technology and Management Information Systems What made you want to attend Wichita State? There were a few different factors that influenced my decision to attend WSU. Scholarship Opportunities:I’m the 2018-2019 Clay Barton Scholarship Recipient. It is an honor and privilege to carry that title and have the financial burden of college alleviated. The affordable cost of tuition:I’m an out-of-state student from Oklahoma City. The Shocker City Partnership made WSU an easy pick. Lots of amenities and campus innovations:WSU’s campus amenities are pretty much unmatched. The flats and suites are definitely some of the nicest campus housing around. The new Woolsey Hall, engineering building, and Innovation Campus are huge developments. I spent a lot of time at the new Steve Clark YMCA, the creative media labs over at Shocker Studios, and grabbing food at Shocker Dining, the RSC, or the Groundhouse. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I’m feeling confident and excited for the future! I believe my time at WSU has enabled me to build a dynamic skillset and strong foundation to be successful in my career path. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? My biggest challenge was finding a good school-work-life balance. Thankfully I had a lot of help from the different campus resources and student success teams. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? Working with the Office of Career and Professional Development was extremely helpful in my time here at WSU. They provided so many resources, workshops, networking opportunities, internships, and jobs. I’m extremely thankful for the Shocker Career Accelerator and Professional Edge Program. What are your plans after graduation? I plan to continue developing my business Watt-age working as an independent contractor for live events and in logistics and business development and consulting. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? The pandemic really tested my abilities to battle adversity and be resilient. Facing challenges such as switching from classrooms to Zoom calls, entire industries of work coming to a complete stop, moving multiple times, and mental and physical health. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? There will always be an excuse for you to keep waiting for the perfect set of circumstances to appear in your life. If you are going to be a dream-chaser, start chasing your dreams now. Information Technology and Management Information Systems The Bachelor of Business Administration in information technology and management information systems from Wichita State's Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. Learn more about Information Technology and Management Information Systems Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©