Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Cornell researchers work toward an antiviral solution to COVID-19 Posted on March 24, 2020 By Baker Institute for Animal Health, College of Veterinary Medicine, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X LUIS SCHANG: The issue is with the urgency of the situation, that people are starting to make tremendous efforts to try to do their best to curtail the epidemic. But people are literally being affected on a day-to-day life, beyond whether they are infected or not. So our area of interest is therapeutics, which is basically cures, or medicines to be used on the sick people. In general, for any viral infection, the two approaches are try to prevent with vaccine or, if people get infected, try to treat it with antivirals. For example, we have good vaccines against polio virus, so the virus doesn't exist anymore. We don't have good vaccines against HIV, but we have drugs that control the disease. In either case, we can either prevent or, if we cannot prevent, we can treat, cure, or at least manage the disease. The molecules that we work with, by definition, by design, they are active against a variety of unrelated viruses. What we are switching is we are stopping the work with all the other viruses and testing them exclusively in the coronavirus. We are growing two human coronaviruses which are endemic, are common in the human population-- they produce common cold-- that we are going to use to prescreen our molecules. And then the ones that are active are going to be tested against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, in a biosafety level 3 facility that is in a separate building. Gary Whittaker has been working with coronaviruses for a long time. He was originally working with animal coronaviruses. Many years ago, there was another coronavirus that came into the human population, which is called SARS. Later on, it was a second one, which is called MERS. So Gary started working with those viruses, as well. So we are complementing each other. He has the expertise in the coronavirus, we bring the expertise on a small molecule with antiviral effects. So the question that we're asking is, can we target this virus with any of these molecules that are active against several other viruses. Most likely, some will in culture. And then it starts a very lengthy process to test whether they are actually potential antivirals or not. But yeah, everything takes time. There is no magic solution that is going to be available in one month. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Luis Schang, professor of chemical virology at the Baker Institute for Animal Health, is one of many researchers at Cornell University working on an antiviral solution to the COVID-19 pandemic. Related Links COVID-19 working group gears up (Cornell Chronicle) More About higher education COVID-19 research virology infectious disease coronavirus medicine health care What to watch next 1:46 MyPlaylist Spring tweaks to COVID-19 plan are based on fall’s lessons 1:38 MyPlaylist Cornell COVID-19 lab to process up to 7K tests per day 2:19 MyPlaylist Vaccine safety: Cornell experts answer community questions surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×