Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Home UW Research MyResearch Project Lifecycle Setup Financials UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Financials Close Menu Home Setup Sponsor Requirements Federal Non-Federal Internal Sponsors Industry Clinical Trials Agreement Considerations Facilities and Resources Financials Program Income Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Human Subjects Research Animal Use Export Control Measures Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Environmental Health & Safety Information Privacy and Security Classified Research Faculty Effort Certification Audit Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Agreement Types Sharing Information and Data Sharing Material Consultants Subawards Data Collection Information Privacy and Security Contents Award Receipt Award Status and Holds Funding Action Compliance Holds Budget Number Setup Subawards Sub-Budgets Payroll Equipment Fabrication Budget Cost Share Program Income Award Receipt The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) reviews, negotiates and accepts all sponsored program funding on behalf of the UW. When OSP receives an award from a sponsor a SAGE funding action (FA) is created. Have an award with an approved eGC1 in SAGE? Forward the award and all attachments to osp@uw.edu, include the PI name and eGC1# in the subject line. If you do not have an approved eGC1 in SAGE for an award, you will need to submit an eGC1 and mark After the Fact (ATF). Review ATF eGC1s for Agreements & Awards for more information. Award Status and Holds Use the SAGE eGC1 or Funding Action (FA) numbers to track award status in MyResearch. Award information can be viewed in SAGE. Based on information in the eGC1, HOLDs are automatically placed on an FA to allow necessary compliance review. FA’s placed on “HOLD” cannot be released for budget set up until the HOLD reason has been resolved. In addition to automatic hold reasons outlined below, OSP reviews agreements for consistency with UW agreement considerations and principles, policies, state law, and other Federal requirements that may impact the project. OSP reviewers may place a manual hold on an FA. Funding Action (FA) Compliance Holds Review Automatic FA Hold Guidance Based on a preparer’s response to questions on an eGC1, Automatic System Holds are placed on a Funding Action (FA) to allow compliance review. Compliance Area eGC1 Question Why Hold Placed / Review areas More Information & Guidance Budget & Fiscal F&A F-1 Outstanding questions on the use of F&A rates in the budget. Review information on Applying F&A Rates from GIM 13 Budget & Fiscal Administrative Support F-2 OSP is confirming costs described & justified in proposal & that award does not disallow. Review: Proposal Budget Development-Administrative & Clerical Salaries Budget Justification Budget & Fiscal Cost Share F-3 OSP is requesting or reviewing a Cost Share Addendum. Review: Cost Share Guidance Cost Share Addendum GIM 21: Cost Share on Sponsored Programs Human Subjects HS-1 OSP must be able to verify related IRB protocol approvals or exempt status information. Questions about Human Subjects Research at the UW? Contact Human Subjects Division via email: hsdinfo@uw.edu Animal Use AU-1 OSP is verifying IACUC protocol information related to the project. Contact OAW for guidance on animal use in research Equipment & Materials E-2 OSP is reviewing terms of the award to determine if further review or licensing is required. Review Equipment Fabrication guidance. Contact eio@uw.edu with questions If University-owned biological materials will be provided to non-UW parties. Review Material Transfer Agreement FAQs If your project involves sharing or shipping items to or from foreign locations or with foreign nationals: Review Export Control Measures Contact exports@uw.edu with questions Data & Technology D-1 thru D-4 OSP is reviewing to determine if further review or licensing is required. Review more information on: Export Control Measures Export Control Information Privacy and Security Questions about export control? Email exports@uw.edu SFI/FCOI SFI/FCOI Up to date OSP is ensuring all disclosures are made by Investigators, and that an FCOI review is complete. One or more investigators on PI, Personnel & Organizations page lists SFI of “Yes” or “Unknown” PHS Training PHS Training OSP is confirming PHS training is up to date. One or more investigators on the PI, Personnel, & Organizations of a PHS sponsored eGC1 has either not done the FCOI training or it has expired Review Manual FA Hold Guidance OSP reviewers may also place manual holds on a Funding Action for various reasons. Type of Hold What does OSP need to release funding? For Check A copy of a check award. (The original check goes to Grant and Contract Accounting) Pending Fully Executed Agreement OSP is waiting for sponsor signature. Revised Budget Dept. needs to submit a revised budget that matches the award amount and allowed costs. Other (Campus) Department needs to submit PI confirmation, back-up documentation or other necessary information to complete a Funding Action. OR OSP is waiting for information from another central office. Other (Sponsor) Revisions or additional info needed from the sponsor. PI Signature PI Signature needed. Pending Notice to Process/Activation Notice For fellowship award: OSP is waiting on activation notice to determine the start date. Budget Number Setup After HOLD reasons are addressed, OSP sends the Funding Action (FA) to Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA). GCA uses the FA and attachments (award documents, budget, eGC1, etc.) to set up the award budget in the UW Financial Systems and assigns a UW budget number. GCA notifies the PI and department contacts listed on the eGC1 in SAGE once a budget number has been assigned. Review more information on the GCA budget set up process. One day after budget set up notification, campus can view the UW budget information in MyFinancial Desktop, and Grant Tracker. Review the proposal documents attached to the FA and award information that was set up in the UW financial systems. Take note of sponsor requirements and deadlines. Prepare for award closeout upon receipt of the award and keep in mind the budget’s final action date. Questions about your award? Contact your OSP reviewer. Questions about the UW budget set up? Contact GCA via GCA’s Grant Tracker. Request or Review the following if applicable: Subawards If part of your award includes outgoing subawards, review process and guidance for requesting subawards. Sub-Budgets Request sub-budgets using a TRANSPASU to help track or separate funds. Some reasons to separate funds include when funds are restricted within a grant for a specific purpose (e.g. participant support costs or funds that are only for salaries and supplies, pilot studies on Center grants) or multiple UW department project involvement. Payroll Review UW Payroll guidance for hiring employees and setting up salary in the UW payroll system. Payroll also provides a payroll coordinator’s guide and training options. Equipment Fabrication Budgets If equipment fabrication was in the proposal budget, use a TRANSPASU to request an equipment fabrication sub-budget from GCA. Cost Share If your award has cost share commitments, provide your OSP reviewer with a copy of the Cost Share Addendum. OSP will attach these to the FA so GCA can use it to set up the cost share commitments in UW systems. Review Cost Share procedures and guidance. Program Income Certain kinds of income generated by a Federal Award may need to be reported as Program Income. Program Income Procedures provide guidance on the types of income, accounting, set-up management and spending of Program Income. Forms, Tools, and Resources SAGE Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) GCA: Program Income Guidelines Institutional Facts & Rates PAFC: Award Calendar GCA: GrantTracker Financial Reporting: Internal Controls PAFC: Award Management GCA: Cost Share After-the-Fact eGC1s What is an “award”? GCA: Cost Share Addendum & Instructions Subrecipient, Contractor/Vendor, Consultant? Policy, Regulation, and Guidance GIM 02 – Acceptance of Sponsored Program Awards and Fiscal… GIM 10 – Financial Conflict of Interest Policy GIM 23 – Sponsored Program Costing Policy GIM 21 – Cost Share on Sponsored Programs GIM 13 – Facilities and Administrative (F&A) Rates Related Announcements October 6, 2020 Update: F&A and Fringe Benefit Rate Agreement April 16, 2019 Executive Level II Salary Cap Increase All Announcements Related FAQs Department of Defense (DoD) Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) FAQs Subrecipient, Contractor/Vendor, Consultant? Home Setup Sponsor Requirements Federal Non-Federal Internal Sponsors Industry Clinical Trials Agreement Considerations Facilities and Resources Financials Program Income Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Human Subjects Research Animal Use Export Control Measures Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Environmental Health & Safety Information Privacy and Security Classified Research Faculty Effort Certification Audit Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Agreement Types Sharing Information and Data Sharing Material Consultants Subawards Data Collection Information Privacy and Security University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA