Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Activities Office Leadership Awards Student Activities Office Leadership Awards Students make significant and lasting impacts on Brown. Each year, various offices solicit nominations for awards to recognize the efforts of students - including the Student Activities Office. Student Activities Office Leadership Awards The Student Activities Office is pleased to announce that nominations are now open for the SAO Leadership Awards 2022! Nominate exceptional student leaders, advisors, organizations, and/or events here through Sunday, April 10 at 11:59 pm. More information:At the end of each academic year, the Student Activities Office Awards Program recognizes the accomplishments of student leadership in the context of recognized student organizations. By the time they are seniors, many student leaders often have put in hundreds of hours as members of student groups; some students even go into careers based on their group memberships. The Leadership Awards recognize the value that student contributions have at Brown. For 2022, the six categories and ten different awards are: Student Leadership Student Leader of the Year Award - Awarded to the member of a student group who best demonstrates the qualities of outstanding leadership and membership, such as dependability, dedication, trustworthiness, loyalty, and helpfulness. Emerging Leadership Emerging Student Leader Award - Awarded to a new student leader on campus (first-year student, transfer student, or a student who has never had any prior involvement until this academic year.) This student has shown involvement, dependability, and concern for others. “The Emerging Student Leader” is someone who shows great potential for future service to the Brown University community. New Student Group of the Year Award - Awarded to a new student group that was founded within the last two years. This group has demonstrated a dedication to positive engagement within the Brown community and has strived to standards of leadership, growth, and impact. Student Groups Performance Group of the Year Award - Awarded for a student performance group that has demonstrated a mastery of their art. Nominated groups may be asked to perform at the awards ceremony. Student Group of the Year Award (Non-Performance) - For a student group that has exemplified exceptional leadership, through campus programs, building community, and impactful initiatives. Engaging Community Collaboration Award - Awarded to multiple student groups who demonstrated successful collaboration through the planning and implementation of a campus event or initiative. Community Impact Award - Awarded to an individual or group that works to positively impact and inspire the local, national or international community by demonstrating a clear purpose of activism, advocacy, or raising awareness for a social, political, environmental, or economic issue. Co-Curricular Award - For a student leader or group that connects academics and co-curricular endeavors through sponsored events and initiatives. The recipient works to extend learning far beyond the reaches of the classroom experience. Events Event of the Year Award - This award is given for an event that exemplifies exceptional teamwork through student leadership. The event demonstrated effective planning and implementation to bring about a successful program/event. Advisor Advisor of the Year Award - Awarded for a staff or faculty member who has provided exceptional service and.or has made a significant impact to benefit a student group through their supportive efforts, dedication, assistance, and encouragement. Below there is a listing of the student groups and leaders honored in past years: Note: The SAO Leadership Awards were not held in 2020 or 2021 due to COVID-19. 2022 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Advisor Dean Lindsay Garcia Anne Marie Ponte Jennifer Casasanto Je-Shawna Wholley Co-Curricular Brown Asian Sisters Empowered (BASE) Chelse Steele of Mosaic+ Natalie Asalgado & Kimberley Charles MedTalk Brown (Minority Association of Premedical Students) Collaboration Class Coordinating Board, [email protected], Underground Thursdays oSTEM & Graduate Students of Color in STEM Impulse Dance Company & BRYTE Campus of Consent Bill (Sexual Assault Peer Education, SAPE program & Undergraduate Council of Students, UCS) Latin American Student Organization (LASO) & El Movimiento Estudiantil [email protected] de Aztlan (M.E.Ch.A.) The F.L.A.M.E Conference (Feminists @ Brown) Community Impact Students for Saving Mothers Sunrise RI (Formerly RI Student Climate Coalition) Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere (HOPE), Arely Diaz-Loza Native Americans at Brown “Prospects for Peace after Gaza” (J Street U) Event TEDxBrownU:Detours Black Student Union: Black Convocation AfriSA’s Annual Culture Show HOPE’s Evicted in Providence Annual Culture Show sponsored by African Students’ Association (AfriSA) East Coast Taiko Conference (Gendo Taiko) & Pride Prom (Queer Alliance) The Brain Fair sponsored by Brown Brain Bee A Night on College Hall (Class Coordinating Boards & Greek Council) New Student Leader Glennie LeBaron, Kelly Wei, Madu Subramanian Savannah Doelfel Ben Martel & Ashleigh LoVette Isabel Thornton & Sonia Sachar Drashti Brahmbhatt & Renata Mauriz New Student Group Brown Public Speaking Initiative & Black StarJournal Disability Justice at Brown (DJAB) Bias E-Learning Project, & the School of Public Health Womxn of Color Collective Students for Life Student Leader Emma Rosenkranz, Charles Wang, Mia McKinney Jennifer Xinyue Xu Gabe Zimmerman & Diem-Khanh (Nini) Nguyen Yun Gao, Eren Ileri, & Madeline DiGiovanni Emma Dickson, Lauren Galvan, & Christine Mullen Sophia Dalce & Samuel Kase Performance Group Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Shakespeare on the Green Mariachi de Brown Student Group [email protected] & Brown Esports Brown Refugee Youth Tutoring & Enrichment (BRYTE) & Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere (HOPE) Project LETS, Black Student Union, & SoBear Activities Club Black Student Union & Project LETS Students for Samaritans Ivy Film Festival Home About Spring Weekend Policies for Student Groups Student Group Resources Hazing Prevention Leadership Awards Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center News Print this Page Share this Page Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center (Faunce House) Brown University Box 1930 75 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2341 Fax 401-863-1155 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Links Brown Outdoor Leadership Training Brown Student Agencies Liber Brunensis (Yearbook) Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Undergraduate Council of Students Undergraduate Orientation Resources 25Live Space Reservation Brown Space Reservation Catering Menus Dignitary Notification Form Event Support Services Media Services Request Form