Skip to main content Cornell University Library Search Cornell University Library Support Teaching Learning Research I am... Off-Campus/Study Abroad A Faculty member/Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student New to Cornell An Alum A Visitor Staff Help Trouble Connecting Search Tips: Articles Search Tips: Catalog COVID-19 updates Search Search Search this site About Us Inside the Library News Events Collections Visitor Information Staff Partnerships and Initiatives Public Policies Libraries Textbooks Tools for Instructors Contact Reserves Staff Student Textbook Request Form Research Citation Management Current Awareness Introduction to Research Research Guides Meet with a Librarian Services Borrow, Renew, Return Policies Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan (ILL) and Material Requests Copyright and Digitization Disability Services Evidence Synthesis Service Instruction and Workshops Library Liaisons Library Spaces OverDrive Passkey and Library Apps Privacy Services Research Data Management Services Scholarly Publishing, Repositories, and Open Access Streaming Video Visiting Partner Libraries Ask a Librarian Chat Email Meet with a Librarian Reference Desk Directory My Account Teaching & Course Support Resources & Support for Learning Research COVID-19 updates Home Off Campus & Studying Abroad Off Campus & Studying Abroad How to use the Library’s e-resources from anywhere When you’re off-campus, start your search at the library home page for full access to all databases, online journals, article texts, and other resources requiring a Cornell subscription. When you click on subscription-only resources, you’ll be prompted for your NetID and password to begin two-factor authentication. When you don’t start at the library’s homepage, use Passkey for electronic access. Drag the Passkey icon to the top of your browser. Whenever you hit a paywall or a “forbidden” message, click the Passkey tab on your browser. If the Library has a subscription to the resource you’re trying to access, you’ll then be prompted for your NetID. While traveling, also consider installing software to connect to Cornell via VPN (Virtual Private Network) which adds secure access to Cornell campus networks and is usually not blocked by firewalls. Be aware that some countries might restrict or ban the use of VPNs. How to get research help E-mail - library staff will respond as soon as possible, often within 24 hours. 24/7 chat - we offer this service with a wide network of partner libraries. How to get instructional help Librarians are available to teach via Zoom or other online platforms. We can also work with you to integrate library research into your class. Contact your instruction coordinator or library liaison with questions or to schedule a library session. How to get scans of articles and chapter Use ScanIt to get electronic scans of articles and book chapters from material held by the Library. If the article you need is from a journal to which Cornell does not currently subscribe, request a scan of the article via this form. Including the article’s DOI (Digital Object Identifier found in databases and references) will auto-populate the request form and provide a link to an open-access version of the article, if available. How to get books Below are some options for accessing physical materials from our partner libraries you might be close to. Check ahead with the desired location. Columbia University in New York City has a reciprocal relationship with Cornell which includes library access and borrowing privileges. Borrow Direct Plus libraries provide on-site reciprocal borrowing privileges. Many research libraries participate in the SHARES program which supports on-site access to collections and services. In addition, a small number of SHARES libraries are offering the opportunity to create a library account and check out materials through the SHARES On-Site Borrowing Pilot Program. Local college or university libraries might allow visitors to use their collections on site. Check for visitor policy pages before traveling in case an application ahead of time is required. New York Public Library provides library cards free of charge to any person who lives, works, attends school, or pays property taxes in New York State. Local or hometown public libraries may have the items that you need and usually provide interlibrary loan services for their patrons, which may include borrowing books. Working or studying abroad? This guide provides a wealth of helpful information: Study Abroad: Cornell Library Services. And if you have questions, be sure to Ask a Librarian on the phone, via email or online chat. I am... Off Campus & Studying Abroad A Faculty member/Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student An Alum A Visitor Staff News Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! More news » Events Radical Desire: Making On Our Backs Magazine at Kroch Library More events » | Book Talks » Library Insider Staff Profile: Reanna Karim Esmail More Library Insider » Spotlight Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! Menu Library Home About Us Libraries Textbooks Research Services Ask a Librarian My Account Cornell Cornell.edu CUinfo Search Cornell Help Trouble Connecting Search Tips: Articles Search Tips: Catalog Resources Search Catalog Articles & Full Text Databases E-journal Titles Images I am... Off Campus & Studying Abroad A Faculty member &/or Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student An Alum A Visitor Staff Library Staff Staff login Send us feedback Give to the Library ©2021 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | (607) 255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance Facebook Twitter Instagram