Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish Major Apply Visit Request More Info Spanish Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Spanish Study the cultures and languages of Spain, Latin America and the Luso-Brazilian world with the Bachelor of Arts in Spanish in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Explore the defining works of literature of various Spanish-speaking cultures, and gain a competitive edge in the global job market by honing your Spanish language proficiency. In this 123-credit bachelor's degree program, you'll develop several skills essential to navigating the international workforce, including written and oral communication skills, as well as critical thinking and problem-solving skills. You'll also access robust internship opportunities and study abroad opportunities in Spain and Latin America to help you build real-world work and language experience. Spanish majors advance to professional work in a wide range of industries, including business, education, government, public health and social services. Curriculum Tracks You can tailor your degree to your professional and academic goals by choosing one of the following curriculum tracks. The Language, Literature and Linguistics track embodies the curriculum of a foundational liberal arts program. Skills in analysis, cultural competencies, information literacy, research, and written and oral discourse are honed, along with language proficiency through direct language instruction and courses in literature and linguistics. Learn more about the BA in Spanish: Language, Literature and Linguistics. The Language and Professional Studies track is designed for students who wish to develop language and professional skills, as well as an awareness of Hispanic culture. Courses in business, criminal justice, medicine and translation form the foundation of this track. Learn more about the BA in Spanish and Professional Studies. The Spanish for Education track not only prepares students with linguistic expertise for their future careers as educators, but also fulfills the College of Education and Human Development’s Spanish requirements for certification in Spanish for secondary education. Learn more about the BA in Spanish for Education. Spanish and Portuguese Minors Develop your skills in Spanish or Portuguese with an 18-credit (minimum) minor and increase your job credentials. Acquire fluency through language, cultural and elective courses. Spanish Minor Portuguese Minor Classes & Curriculum The Bachelor of Arts in Spanish can be completed within four years of full-time study. Courses offered in this program include the following. Composition and Conversation Cultures of Latin America Hispanic Literature through Art Introduction to Spanish Linguistics Latinx Studies Spanish for Business Professions Spanish for Health Professions Spanish for Professionals in Criminal Justice and Social Services Spanish Sociolinguistics Topics in Hispanic Popular Culture Translation Skills A writing capstone is also required under the Advanced Analysis and Writing Skills course. Learn more about required courses for the Spanish Major. Online Courses Advance your studies on your own time, anywhere in the world. Our online courses provide the same quality and educational content as traditional classrooms, with a flexibility that is compatible with virtually any schedule. Coursework emphasizes interactive teaching and learning, and our students demonstrate marked progress that leads to the use of Spanish in real-world situations. Explore options for online courses in the Spanish Major program. Related Graduate Degrees Spanish MA Spanish PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact With questions regarding the Spanish Major, contact the following staff member. Augusto Lorenzino is the undergraduate chair in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Email: galorenz@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Spanish Department. Montserrat Piera is the chair. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: mpiera01@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu Annette Vega is the coordinator. Phone: 215-204-2877 Email: avega1@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. Club de Español is a student organization, and its principal goal is to promote the practice of speaking Spanish. This is achieved through weekly conversation tables, which allow students to practice their conversation skills in a relaxed environment. Hispanic culture is celebrated all year through different student activities. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in one of the Spanish and Portuguese department’s many study away programs. Students can choose to spend their junior year abroad, or they can choose one of the following study away opportunities. The Latin American Studies Semester (LASS) is a 17-credit immersion program that includes intensive study of Spanish language, an exploration of Latin American culture and a three-week trip to Ecuador. The Spring in Spain program places students with families in Oviedo, Spain, where they will attend classes at the University of Oviedo. An initial weeklong orientation is held in Madrid. Courses focus on Spanish language, culture and literature. The Summer Abroad in Spain: Spanish Language and Culture in Oviedo is a five-week program that immerses students in the language and culture of Spain. Students may enroll for a total of six credits. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SPAN-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info