Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs School of Medicine Salina Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Student Affairs Counseling and Support Services Personal Counseling Services Salina medical students have three options for obtaining confidential personal counseling services: Local personal counseling services are available to Salina school of medicine students through: Veridian Behavioral Health 501 S. Santa Fe, Suite 300 To make an appointment, contact: Peggy Allred, 785-452-4930 KU Medical Center Counseling and Educational Support Services offers psychiatric services and psychological services. Students are welcome to travel to Kansas City for an appointment. Additionally, counseling personnel travel to the Salina campus 1-2 times each semester to meet individually with students. Please contact Lucy Kollhoff for upcoming dates. KU Medical Center Counseling and Education Support Services offers personal counseling through secure ITV connections, which can be arranged through Mike Kollhoff at 785-822-0405. A free online mental health screening program for KUMC students can be accessed at http://www.mentalhealthscreening.org/screening/KUMC. For urgent assistance, please contact KUMC Counseling and Educational Support Services at 913-588-6580. Educational Support Services Mike Kollhoff, Medical Education Instruction Specialist on the Salina campus, is available to help students develop the practices they need to be successful lifelong learners, including study and time management skills, learning and test-taking strategies and learning style counseling. For more in-depth or topic-specific supports, he can connect you with the appropriate content expert or other resources. Additional Programs: Question Groups - students will receive 1 USMLE-style question by email each day through a web-based quiz program. These multiple-choice questions offer text boxes for students to provide the rationale behind the selection. KUMC-based learning specialists - Students may also engage with any of the learning specialists based on the Kansas City campus via secure ITV. Contact edsupport@kumc.edu with questions or go to https://medconsult.kumc.edu to schedule an appointment. Student-to-Student Assistance - If a specific tutoring need is identified, the school can assist in connecting a student with another who has mastered that content area. Contact Mike Kollhoff for assistance. Online Resources - Multiple PDF handouts and learning strategies are available on the Counseling and Educational Support Services Resources page. Topic categories include "Study Smarter, Not Harder;" "Improve your Test Tasking Strategy;" and "Take Control of your Time." Student Organizations - There are over 80 student organizations covering a broad range of topics. See a complete listing here: https://kumc.campuslabs.com/engage/organizations. KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.