Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Bands Menu Main Nav BC Bands Contact Us Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Sebastian Bonaiuto David P. Healey, Ph.D. Kara Robbins Tim Leonelli Karen Sayward Brian Shanbrun Andre Sonner Band Alumni Rental and Repairs Ensembles Overview Marching Band University Wind Ensemble BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Symphonic Band: SymBa Pep Band Dance Team Sights & Sounds Get Involved Contact Us Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Home Ensembles BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Ensembles Marching Band University Wind Ensemble BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Symphonic Band: SymBa Pep Band Dance Team Have the time of your musical life performing instrumental and vocal jazz with BC bOp! This exciting and versatile ensemble performs every variety of jazz imaginable from traditional big band charts to modern. BC bOp!’s instrumental and vocal resources allow the ensemble to create a broad and engaging variety of sound to please everyone from the casual listener to the jazz connoisseur. Membership in BC bOp! is determined by competitive auditions, held in the first week of the academic year. We perform big band standards, contemporary jazz, Latin charts, funk tunes, and pop hits up to 10 times each year and never on the same stage! Special events include an annual (sold-out) showcase, area jazz nights, a Christmas Concert, and a jazz immersion trip. Instrumentalists rehearse on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:15–6:30 p.m. Vocalists rehearse on Wednesdays from 7:00–9:00 p.m., Thursdays from 4:15–6:30 p.m., and Fridays from 4:00–6:00 p.m. Vocalists receive a small stipend. Contact Seb Bonaiuto Director of Bands For more information, email bonaiuto@bc.edu. Karen Sayward Vocal Director For more information, email saywardt@bc.edu. Register here Events Calendar 2021-2022 Auditions Info Session Monday, August 30 at 6:00 p.m. Instrumentalist Auditions Mandatory Reading Session Tuesday, August 31 from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. Individual Auditions Sunday, September 5 from 4:30 to 7:30 p.m. Vocalist Auditions Thursday, September 2, 4:30 pm - Solo Audition Friday, September 3, 4:00 pm - Call Back Rehearsal Sunday, September 5 - 4:30 pm Final Audition Wednesday, September 8 - 7:00 pm First Rehearsal All sessions are held in the Band Room in Conte Forum, Gate C Frequently Asked Questions What should instrumentalists prepare for the audition? Instrumentalists have nothing to prepare in advance of the audition. The audition music will be distributed at the reading session. The audition music consists of an excerpt from a piece that we rehearse at the reading session. Students will take the music to practice for the individual audition. What should vocalists prepare for the audition? Vocalists should prepare a solo of their choice for the solo audition. Vocal candidates may select a standard jazz solo, a musical theater selection or a popular song. Vocalists who are called back prepare a few short excerpts of ensemble songs. What is the time commitment? BC bOp! Instrumentalists rehearse on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:15 pm to 6:30 pm. Instrumental full ensemble rehearsals add up to of 4 hours per week. BC bOp! Vocalists rehearse on Wednesdays from 7:00 pm to 9:00 pm; Thursdays from 4:15 pm to 5:30 pm (with the instrumentalists); and Fridays from 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm. All members (instrumentalists and vocalists) are expected to practice outside of rehearsals to prepare the music. Individual practice time will vary for each member. When are rehearsals? BC bOp! Instrumentalists rehearse on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:15 pm to 6:30 pm. BC bOp! Vocalists rehearse on Wednesdays from 7:00 pm to 9:00 pm; Thursdays from 4:15 pm to 6:30 pm (with the instrumentalists); and Fridays from 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm. When and where are concerts typically held? BC bOp! typically performs 3-4 times per semester. Most performances take place on campus. Occasionally, an off-campus performance is scheduled. A short trip in the spring semester will include one or two performances. BC bOp! performs twice during the Boston College Arts Festival at the end of April. I do not own an instrument. Can I loan one from the Bands Program? Yes. The Boston College Bands Program maintains an inventory of high-quality instruments that we loan to students who play in our ensembles at no cost. Contact the Bands Office to arrange an instrument loan. What is the audition process? The audition process for BC bOp! instrumentalists consists of a reading session and an individual audition. The reading session is just like a typical rehearsal where everyone plays together. Everyone is required to attend the reading session. The audition music is distributed at the reading session and is for the student to take to practice for the individual audition. The audition process for BC bOp! vocalists is a solo audition, a callback rehearsal and a ﬁnal audition. Candidates select a song of their own choice for the solo audition. For the solo audition, vocalists may select a standard jazz solo, a musical theater selection or a popular song. Vocal candidates are provided with short musical excerpts to learn for the callback rehearsal. Nate Victor of BC bOp! performs at the Robsham Theater. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Bands Program Conte Forum 213 617-552-3018 bands@bc.edu About Ensembles Sights & Sounds Get Involved Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College