Skip To Main Content Department of Residence Search the website Open Search Box Housing Portal Login Open Mobile Menu Housing Portal Login Search the website Open Search Box Live Res Life! On campus. On the dean's list. Spring Move Out New Student? Live on campus! Live Here Next YearGo COVID-19: ISOLATION & QUARANTINE HOUSINGGo Room assignments for new students start May 25Go Why Live Res Life? Previous Slide 38% faster path to success Students who live on campus graduate faster than those who don’t. 45% more likely to stay First-year students who live on campus are more likely to stay at Iowa State. Less stress means more fun On campus, students are less stressed about time management and taking care of themselves – and, they have more social connections! Next Slide Learn More Important Dates View All No events found. News View All Best Room on Campus Contest is On! Who’s Got the Best Room on Campus? Think you have the best looking room on campus? Enter our Best Room on Campus contest and prove it! To enter just take pictures and submit them on this link. Top entries will go head-to-head and the winner (and their roommate) will get a $300 gift card! Entries are due by… New Location for Campus Life DEI Office The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for Campus Life is now located in the Multicultural Center within the Memorial Union. You can schedule time to meet with Joseph Ballard II, Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for Campus Life to learn more about his role and the Office’s programs/services/initiatives. With the Office’s move to the Multicultural Center, Joseph,… Conference Service Manager Position: Application Date Extended Looking for a great opportunity? Consider working as a Conference Manager for the Department of Residence! We’re looking for enthusiastic, customer-oriented, and dedicated staff to manage housing accommodations, related services, and student staffing for summer conference groups living in ISU residence halls and apartments. This is great experience for all majors, especially those in Event… Connect With Us Need more info? Let's chat. Can't find an answer on our web site? Contact our friendly and helpful staff at housing@iastate.edu or at 515-294-2900. Get in touch Contact Department of Residence 2419 Friley Hall Ames, IA 50012 E: housing@iastate.edu P: 515-294-2900 Quick Links ISU Dining Conference Services Guest Housing Intranet Staff IT Request Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link Youtube Link Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.