Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs K12geo: Exploring World Cultures K-12 Geo FAQ's Where do I find information regarding program choices? The K-12 Global Education Outreach [GEO] programs are designed to provide culturally relevant experiences for public, private, and home-school classrooms as well as community groups and organizations. Program information is located under the PROGRAMOPTIONS tab. This page provides a list of program descriptions and schedules. After reading the descriptions, simply click on a program name and it will redirect you to the online reservation calendar and form. How do I know if the program is appropriate for my students? All K-12 programming has been aligned with state standards [TEKS]. The K-12 team has studied the language of the standards and will make adjustments to programming based on the grade level and needs of your students. Each K-12 program has a menu of basic options that are used to adjust the language of instruction and activities to meet the needs of various grade levels. What are the basic features of your programs? Programs might contain some of the following basic features: Introduction to physical and human geography using our 10'x12' floor maps of the continent or region and standards based vocabulary [grade level appropriate] Hands-on examination of artifacts from featured countries Families Video Series for featured countries Hands-on culturally relevant activities and crafts Cultural traditions and celebrations *Special Guests: Interaction with international students, traditional music, and dance performances. [*Performances based on availability of international students or special guests.] Guest lecturers Exhibits Demonstrations How do I schedule a program? All programs SHOULD be scheduled at least 2 weeks in advance. You can schedule a program by: Completing the online reservation form found on the website. Go to the PROGRAM RESERVATIONS tab on the website. This page provides a list of program descriptions. Programs are offered during certain months of the year. After reading the descriptions, simply click on a program name and it will redirect you to the online reservation calendar and form. Choose a date, complete the form, and hit submit. The form will schedule your reservation in the system. Upon receipt of your reservation request, the K-12 GEO team will discuss your program and will contact you via email to confirm your reservation. (If you do not receive the confirmation email within one week, please contact our office.) If you need to make changes to your reservation [time, # of students attending, etc.], please contact us as soon as possible. A minimum of 15 students is required for scheduling a program. If you have more than 125 students, K-12 GEO will need to make special arrangements for your program reservation. K-12 GEO offers several options to accommodate larger groups: splitting groups into morning and afternoon sessions for programming, rotating larger groups between the K-12 GEO/ICC program and a program with the NRHC or MOTTU by splitting into smaller groups, or splitting the program into multiple days, etc. K-12 GEO staff will do everything possible to work with you and accommodate the needs of your campus. What happens if I need to cancel my program? If there are extenuating circumstances and you must cancel your reservation, please notify us immediately by calling (806) 742-3667 and ask for K-12 GEO reservations. We will make every effort to reschedule your program. However, please be aware that many of our programs include special guests and performances that might not be able to reschedule for a later date. We will do our best to accommodate your requests. Where are the programs offered? K-12 programs are offered at the International Cultural Center on the campus of Texas Tech University. We are located at 601 Indiana Avenue [4th and Indiana] - just behind the TTU Museum and across the street from UMC. We also offer many of our programs through our "On the Road Adventures" for schools that cannot visit the ICC, though we highly recommend bringing your students to our beautiful building for the full cultural experience. *Note: Some of our programming choices are not offered for "On the Road Adventures". Special Guests and performances are not part of the basic programming choices for "On the Road Adventures". Participation and scheduling will be based on their availability. [Map to ICC] When are programs offered? K-12 GEO programs are offered throughout the academic year (September-May). K-12 GEO does not offer after hours or weekend programming at this time. Typical program times range from 1 ½ to 2 hours long. Choose either a morning or afternoon time for regular programs. Though our online reservation form offers specific program times for scheduling, timing can be adjusted to meet your needs. Seasonal programming for special cultural events and celebrations is offered throughout the year. These programs are scheduled at specific times in the morning and afternoon to accommodate large audiences and/or multiple K-12 campuses at once. Students will be divided into groups to rotate through the program activities. Every effort is made to keep campuses/groups together. We do ask that teachers and parents help to chaperone these groups as they move through the program stations. Do we need chaperones for the program? One chaperone or teacher is required for every fifteen (15) students attending the program. *Note: In addition to being a learning center, the ICC is also a working office building and art gallery. We ask that teachers and chaperones be responsible for monitoring student behavior during programs and when entering and leaving the ICC building. ICC Building Rules: -No running. -No climbing or hanging on rails or exhibits. -Please do not touch the exhibits or artwork. Do not run hands along the walls when walking through the galleries. -Do not touch the globe. Does K-12 GEO charge a fee for programming? We are pleased to offer our programs FREE of charge to all K-12 audiences as of November 2016. K-12 GEO does charge a small fee of $3.00 / person for college and community group programming. If you have questions regarding these fees, please feel free to contact our office @ 806-742-3667. Our programs are supported by grant funding and donations. If you would like to help support our K-12 GEO mission, there is a DONATE to K-12 button at the bottom of our HOME page. All donations received are processed through the Texas Tech Institutional Advancement office and will be used to support K-12 GEO programming. How do we pay for programs? The cost of your program is based on the number of people in attendance.There is no charge for K-12 programs. There is a $3.00/person charge for college and community group programs. We accept checks, debit cards, or purchase orders. NO CASH! Payment can be mailed prior to your program to: Office of International Affairs,Attn: ICC/K-12 GEO, 601 Indiana Ave., Lubbock, Texas 79409-5004 or you may pay upon arrival. Payments must be for the exact amount of the program. Make checks and PO's payable to: OIA/K-12 GEO Programs. Can you accommodate people with special needs? Yes, accommodations can be made for persons with disabilities or special needs when you make your reservation or by contacting the office one week in advance of scheduled programming. ADA entrances for the building are located on the North and South sides of the building. If you have additional questions, please feel free to contact us: 806.742.3667. Do you allow students on field trips to eat lunch on site? No, the ICC does not allow students to eat lunch on site. The building does not have space-inside or outside- to accommodate students for lunch or snacks. Also, we are not allowed to have students running, playing, or eating outside on the building grounds. Students must be monitored by teachers and chaperones when exiting the building, waiting for buses, and/or lining up to load buses after programming. Do you create customized programs upon request? Due to our high volume of requests and schedule, we cannot customize programming at this time. We offer a wide variety of programs and our basic menu of options allows some flexibility in creating a program that will meet your needs. Do you offer Travel Trunks for your programs? K12 GEO no longer offers Travel Trunks. Our "On the Road Adventures" replaces the need for Travel Trunks. These "adventures" offer many of the same program choices as seen at the ICC, but are delivered in your classroom instead. "On the Road Adventures"are denoted with OTR in the program descriptions on our PROGRAM OPTIONS page. Do you loan out items from the K-12 GEO Program for classrooms? The majority of our items are donated artifacts from foreign countries that are both fragile and irreplaceable. Therefore, K-12 does not loan or check out any of its items. Do you offer programs in the summer? K-12 GEO offers programming from September - August each academic year. You can access specific programming information under the PROGRAM OPTIONS OR PROGRAM RESERVATIONS tab on the website. K-12 GEO has only four staff members- two of which are part-time and do not work during the summer. Therefore, the summer months are used to develop new curriculum and programs for the upcoming academic year. K-12 GEO also offers professional development workshops for educators in Region 17 throughout the year. How do I volunteer? We are always in need of volunteers for our programming. If you are interested in volunteering, please contact our office @ 806-742-3667. Volunteers are required to complete a background check through Texas Tech University and a volunteer application prior to participation in any of our programs. Do you offer scholarships or funding for schools/students who can't afford the cost of participating in your programs? K-12 GEO programs are free of charge to students in grades K-12. There is a small fee of $3.00 per person for college/adult/community program requests. K-12 GEO programming is funded completely by grants and support from local foundations and donors. We do have a DONATE to K-12 button at the bottom of our HOME page. These funds are processed through the Texas Tech Institutional Advancement office and will be used to fund the following (unless otherwise requested by the donor): new program development and resources, traveling artists, performers, and guest speakers. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 9, 2022 8:24 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index