Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Undergraduate The School of Engineering offers courses and programs leading to either a Bachelor of Science (Sc.B.) or Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) degree. Combined Sc.B./A.B. degrees and Sc.B./Sc.M. programs are also available. Sub Navigation In This Section ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Concentrations View the undergraduate programs of study and concentration options. Learn More Undergraduate The School of Engineering offers courses and programs leading to either a Bachelor of Science (Sc.B.) or Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) degree. Combined Sc.B./A.B. degrees and Sc.B./Sc.M. programs are also available. The School of Engineering offers degree programs in Biomedical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Engineering/Physics, Environmental Engineering, Materials Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. An engineering degree program at Brown will provide you with a broad knowledge of all fields of engineering, as well as specialized training in your discipline. By collaborating with faculty and students in research and design projects both within and alongside the formal curriculum, you will learn how to put theory into practice. Combining your study of engineering with Brown's renowned 'open' curriculum in the liberal arts will help you to put your engineering skills to the best possible use. Whether your interests are in basic research, engineering practice, entrepreneurship, or you are hoping to use your knowledge of engineering in another field, Brown's engineering program will provide you not only with the technical skills necessary to practice your profession, but also with a vision and perspective that will guide you throughout your life and career. Undergraduate Concentrations View the undergraduate programs of study and concentration options. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Open details for Undergraduate Bookmark this Page