Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Illuminate About Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Health Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light Academic Strategic Plan • 2018 - 2022 “…where research discoveries illuminate solutions to significant challenges confronting our world and where creative endeavors reflect the breadth of God’s creation.” Explore Five Signature Academic Initiatives Five interdisciplinary areas of focus will strengthen scholarship, deepen learning and improve teaching as Baylor continues to pursue excellence in undergraduate education and growth in graduate education. Health Research and collaboration in this area will span all schools and colleges across the University as we focus on environmental determinants of health, family and community determinants of health, biomedical research, health policy, law, leadership and ethics, and undergraduate health and medical education. Data Sciences Data Sciences is a rapidly advancing, interdisciplinary field that relies on techniques and theories drawn from machine learning, data mining, scalable data storage, and digital communication, as well as the disciplines of statistics, mathematics, and library sciences. Materials Science Materials Science is a cutting-edge field with high market demand for graduates and vast extramural funding. Investments in Materials Science will position Baylor University as a leader in technologies that make products faster, stronger, and lighter, providing solutions for enhanced quality of life. Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor University will be a recognized leader in understanding the conditions by which humans, communities, and societies flourish. To quote noted scholar John DelHousaye, “Human flourishing is not conjured from man-made programs, but emerges from image-bearers of God working creatively and interacting with others for the individual and common good.” Baylor in Latin America The Baylor in Latin America initiative reflects the University motto “Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana” and provides the opportunity for engagement by Baylor faculty, students, staff, and alumni in multiple avenues of the Quality Enhancement Plan, Global Baylor. Four Pillars That Are Foundational to Illuminate Pillars - Christian Environment Pillars - Transformational Education Pillars - Research and Scholarship Pillars - Arts and Athletics Baylor University’s vision, Pro Futuris, was adopted in 2012. Pro Futuris serves as a compass for the University’s future and provides principal direction defined by five aspirational statements. The aspirations illuminate a future filled with promise for promoting human flourishing and offering hope to ... Learn More Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Academic Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life, from academics and athletics to student life and global engagement. Learn More about Give Light About Back Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Back Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Back Health Back Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Back Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678