Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Alumni Association GIVE NOW Activities and events Virtual engagement Upcoming events On-demand events Alumni Tours Rent event space Ohio State Alumni Awards 2022 Alumni Awards: Call for Nominations Membership Your membership Become a life donor Career Management Official ring Communities Alumnifire Alumni clubs and societies Find a club Find a society BuckeyeBuzz submission form Resources Buckeye Advocates Buckeye Room Classmates Current students Recent graduates Student-Alumni Council Student-Alumni Council Beat Tees Young Alumni Academy Pay forward Alumni Scholars Program Volunteer opportunities Scholarships Student recruitment Team Buckeye The Oval Collection Wines Buckeyes Helping Buckeyes News Ohio State Alumni Magazine Advertising Issues In Memoriam Go Buckeyes! Buckeye Football Ticket Process Ohio State Athletics Game Watch Game Watch Abroad About About us Contact info Staff directory Video collection The Engagement Center The Engagement Center Team The Bill and Susan Lhota Office of Alumni Career Management Index of available resources We provide virtual career programming and resources for Buckeyes in job search or seeking professional development. Our Job Club, career fairs, online networking community, or the many on-demand tools and resources can assist you in planning your next career move. Get help I'm looking for... Job search assistance Professional development Career growth resources Job board Career Roadmaps Congratulations to Ohio State's Class of 2022 – welcome to the alumni family! We put together a customized roadmap for you to follow as you launch your career. Not a recent grad? No worries! There are multiple roadmaps for you to explore. Explore now Upcoming career management events HireOhio Multi-University Alumni Career Fair Thursday, June 9, 2022 - 11:00 am Columbus, OH Meet with recruiters from leading employers and network with area alumni at the HireOhio Career Fair, hosted by The Ohio State University. Details and registration Past webinars Alumni Career Management Job Club Are you in a job search or considering a job transition? Click below to view recent Job Club recordings. View webinars Our extensive library of webinars is a great resource for you to advance your career from home. Learn how to tackle the tough issues in an interview, get tips for managing up, master the job search and more. View webinar archives AlumniFire Connect with other Buckeyes for networking, mentoring, or job opportunities by joining Ohio State’s online community. Join AlumniFire Career Corner Our official blog space. Here you'll find links to resources and advice from our professional career consultants in the form of a weekly column. Visit Career Corner Our office was established in 2012 thanks to the generous support of Bill and Susan Lhota. © 2022 The Ohio State University Alumni Association Longaberger Alumni House | 2200 Olentangy River Road, Columbus, OH 43210 Contact: 614-292-2200 or 800-678-6355 | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | Nondiscrimination notice Ohio State Alumni Assoc. The Ohio State University