Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equity & Inclusion » Services Set Navigation title in component Community Education & Workshops Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services Services Request Form Services Climate Assessment Working in partnership with units across campus, the Office of Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact designs, implements, and analyzes assessments of the working and/or learning environment within a given space. Working collaboratively with unit leadership, we use that data to create a plan for enhancing inclusive excellence within that environment. Complaint Resolution Allegations of discrimination, harassment, and sexual misconduct submitted by students, faculty and/or staff are investigated and resolved through the Office of Equal Opportunity & Access and the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. Don't Cancel Class! For faculty members/instructors, scheduling personal appointments or professional development opportunities can mean having to miss time in class. Our training team offers educational sessions covering a wide range of topics. These workshops are full of activities designed to make learning about diversity, equity and inclusion both fun and informative. Experiential Learning Experiential learning refers to the process of raising awareness and building skills through participation in cross-cultural simulation followed by guided processing and reflection. Previous cultural simulation facilitated by the Office of Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact found statistically significant increase in cultural sensitivity, evidenced in paired samples t-tests. Group Level Assessment (GLA) GLA is a community-based, participatory, and collaborative research method that leads to the generation of data and subsequent action plans. Unlike traditional focus groups, GLA acknowledges the expertise of stakeholders. Working collaboratively with team members, the Office of Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact will develop prompts relevant to the needs of the group - facilitating the process of creating a common data set and plan of action. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top