Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Academics Research Patient Care Outreach Community Programs Student Life About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Outreach KU School of Medicine-Wichita and the city of Wichita provide a wide variety of opportunities for students, residents, faculty and staff to participate in outreach programs. These opportunities provide real-word education and training for our learners while providing multiple benefits for our community. From a 20-plus-year partnership with a local elementary school to programs focusing on COVID-19 to specialized programs for parents, children and families, we develop programs for the community and we participate and partner with existing community programs to better serve those who need us. Our faculty, staff, students and resident physicians are dedicated to helping our community. Here are just a few examples: Park Elementary School - We've proudly partnered with Park Elementary and Wichita USD 259 for more than 20 years, hosting holiday events at the medical school each year for the elementary students and donating school supplies to our friends at Park Elementary. Student Orientation - Our students' commitment to a lifetime of service starts when they first arrive on campus. Every year, the new class of medical students at KU School of Medicine-Wichita spend time volunteering at sites across Wichita. Their service projects have included assisting the Medical Loan Closet of Wichita, Habitat for Humanity, Salvation Army, Kansas Food Bank. the United Methodist Open Door food ministry and more. Operation Holiday - We're proud to assist the annual Operation Holiday effort by collecting non-perishable food, gifts for teens, warm-weather gear and pet food for those in need. Our staff members also volunteer in the warehouse, sorting and distributing donations. For more information, contact our Office of Public Affairs at 316-293-2643. You can also learn more about our outreach efforts on our Community Programs page. KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.