Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content APW Undergraduate Undergraduate UG Concentrations Minors Course Descriptions How to Apply UG Academic Records and Advising UG Concentrations UG Concentrations Applied Physiology and Health Management Undergraduate Specialization Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Minors Minors Applied Physiology Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership Master's Degrees Master's Degrees M.S. in Health Promotion Management M.S. in Sport Management Ph.D. in Education Ph.D. in Education Research Wellness Wellness Wellness PRW1 and PRW 2 Wellness Course Descriptions Wellness Class Schedules Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Facebook Page ☰ Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration B.S. Applied Physiology and Sport Management B.S. in Applied Physiology and Sport Management Concentrations-APHM, SM, SPL Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Coaching and Leadership for Performance Our undergraduate program in Sport Performance Leadership develops the academic and practical skills necessary for the leadership and instruction of sport in elementary, secondary, and collegiate settings; in elite-level settings; and through private-practice coaching. The Sport Performance Leadership (SPL) program is a concentration within the undergraduate major of Applied Physiology and Sport Management (APSM) housed in the Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development. This program’s mission is to provide students with academic and experiential training pertinent to the leadership and instruction of sport. The required introductory class for students interested in applying for the SPL concentration is APSM 2340- Coaching and Leadership for Performance. Academic coursework, addressing coach and leadership development, and the experiential learning opportunities within this program will prepare students for a variety of possible career paths including youth, high school, collegiate, elite-level, or even private practice coaching. Credit Hour Summary Core Applied Physiology and Sport Management Major Curriculum - 12 Credit Hours Course Number Course Title Credit Hours Prerequisites APSM 3311 Applied Exercise Physiology 3 3322 APSM 3322 Functional Biomechanics 3 2340 APSM 3321 Legal and Ethical Aspects of Fitness and Sport 3 2340 APSM 4315 Senior Project (No STAT prerequisite) 3 90+ hrs Sport Performance Leadership Concentration Curriculum - 9 Credit Hours Course Number Course Title Credit Hours Prerequisites APSM 2340 Coaching and Leadership for Performance 3 less than 90 hrs APSM 4X90 Experiential Learning Labs 3 60+ hrs APSM 4385 Exercise Program Design 3 Choose seven (minimum of two 4000 level or higher) - 21 Credit Hours Course Number Course Title Credit Hours Prerequisites APSM 3301 Rules and Regulations of Sport 3 APSM 3315 Communication in Sport 3 APSM 3333 Coaching Team Sports 3 APSM 3351 Nutrition 3 APSM 3371 Diversity and Inclusion in Sport 3 APSM 4300 Advanced Coaching & Leadership for Performance 3 APSM 4310 Psychology of Sport 3 APSM 4370 Coaching Seminar: Special Topics 3 APSM 4380 Technology & Sport 3 60+ hrs Core and Sport Performance Leadership Concentration Total: 42 hours *Required Gateway course for SPL majors Minor in Sport Performance Leadership Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Events Minor Tweets by APSMSPL Upcoming Events Contact Sport Performance Leadership Contact Us 214-768-1810 dbertrand@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Boulevard, Suite 306 Dallas, Texas 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter