Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Home Contact Us SMU Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Live Studio SMU Research ☰ Seven ways business owners can prepare for adversity SMU super-entrepreneur shares what he’s learned from creating something from nothing Carl Dorvil started his first business as an SMU junior. He offers this simple advice to business owners during COVID-19: “Adapt if you can, do something else if you can’t.” Read More Coaching kids through the pandemic New Orleans Saints punter talks about tackling adversity Thomas Morstead ’09 has raised millions for sick children through his What You Give Will Grow charity. Now he’s sharing big life lessons with little ones in the new The Middle School Rules book about him. Read More When in-person seminars became impossible, Candice Bledsoe found a way to inspire students, families Three hundred students, parents and teachers tuned in to learn leadership strategies, problem solving and design from local scholars and leaders. Read More Law school launches helpline for COVID-19 legal issues Those needing legal assistance related to COVID-19 housing, immigration and consumer protection issues can receive assistance through SMU legal clinics or referral to local law firms and attorneys providing free services. Read More COVID-19 challenge: Be kind What started as a blood drive for members of the SMU women's soccer team became an acts of kindness challenge, resulting in 156 kind acts and inspiring the NCAA Soccer United Against Hunger national food drive. Read More Caring for vulnerable patients A new funding lifeline for a free clinic fighting the pandemic As unemployment and COVID-19 cases rise, the Agape Clinic’s medical services are more vital than ever. And SMU alumna Mary Ann Scott ’65 aims to ensure the nonprofit’s healthy future. Read More Previous Next pause play hide show SMU News Latest News COVID-19 Mustangs Keep Going One thing we’ve learned during the COVID-19 pandemic – the SMU community is even more collaborative and creative than we had imagined. We’re extending a virtual helping hand to anyone who needs it during these uncertain times by offering assistance ranging from free services, to tips for parents, to kid-focused activities. Meanwhile, our alumni across the globe are stepping up to help keep their communities safe and healthy. Here, we’ll share expertise from and great stories about our Mustang family. Message from President Turner on SMU Fall Operations Plan August 07, 2020 As we prepare to welcome our students back for the upcoming semester, SMU's Emergency Operations Center (EOC) team has finalized and posted the Fall 2020 Operations Plan, designed to ensure the safety of our campus and minimize the spread of COVID-19. Student uses the power of art to find his voice Advertising major asks, "If I don't speak out, who will?" July 31, 2020 Ra-Sun Kazadi never thought of himself as an activist, until he found the power of art. Human rights education key to cultural change An understanding of human rights is the foundation necessary to identify problems and find the paths to solve them July 31, 2020 SMU is one of just seven universities offering a major in human rights, which is not enough, says Human Rights Program Director Rick Halperin. The problem with teaching kids not to see color Instead, teach children to recognize racism and advocate for their friends July 31, 2020 Maria Dixon Hall, senior adviser to the SMU president on cultural intelligence initiatives, says, "Even in our silence we are shaping our kids." Dr. Turner Updates Faculty and Staff on Options for Working Families With Children in School July 24, 2020 We understand the difficult choices that parents face during these uncertain times – in particular as you attempt both to care for your children and fulfill your professional responsibilities. Law school launches helpline for COVID-19 legal issues Call 214-SMU-COVD (214-768-2683) for free legal assistance for COVID-19 issues July 22, 2020 Those needing legal assistance related to COVID-19 housing, immigration and consumer protection issues can receive assistance through SMU legal clinics or referral to local law firms and attorneys providing free services. SMU paleontologist's Alaskan discovery yields new insight on dinosaur migration More than 20 years of Arctic exploration yields rich rewards for paleontologist July 22, 2020 SMU paleontologist Anthony Fiorillo's research in Alaska was grounded by COVID-19 this year; he was planning to study dinosaur tracks in Aniakchak National Monument, the most remote national park in the country. Mitigating the pandemic's economic impact New partnership to provide tech training scholarships for underserved students July 16, 2020 A partnership with 2U will fund scholarships to SMU Global and Online to be used toward online tech boot camps in fields including coding, data analytics, cybersecurity, fintech and digital marketing. Black executives leading change SMU law grads among first Black women to hold top roles with influential civic groups July 08, 2020 Texas Women’s Foundation Board Chair A. Shonn Brown ’95, ’98 and Junior League of Dallas President-elect Christa Brown-Sanford ’04 step up and speak out for equity and inclusion. Forbes features wise words from SMU grad Entrepreneur shares her insight on tackling difficult subjects – start with your family, she says July 02, 2020 Neha Husein ’19, founder of the Just Drive app, and eight other entrepreneurs and influencers were selected to be part of Warm Robots’ inaugural “Council of Courage” by offering their own experiences and definitions of a courageous conversation. New York City Ballet veteran embraces new role In a New York Times profile, Silas Farley outlines new path July 02, 2020 At just 26, dancer Silas Farley is transitioning from performance to leadership. Meadows School of Arts is the first step on his journey. Law professor analyzes long history of false narratives by white supremacists Attacks on black freedom began shortly after 13th Amendment was ratified July 02, 2020 In this Washington Post analysis, law professor Jessica Dixon Weaver demonstrates that events like the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre have long been a deadly part of American history SMU creative writing professor shines spotlight on Black authors Author leads movement to fill bestseller lists with titles by Black authors July 02, 2020 Sanderia Faye is the author of Mourner’s Bench, a story about 8-year-old Sarah Jones coming to terms with the traditions of her community in 1960s Arkansas and the progressive nature of her mother, who is involved with the civil rights movement. Couple donates stimulus check Retirees moved by business owner’s commitment to employees July 01, 2020 Richard Hawkins, SMU professor emeritus of sociology, and his wife gave a combined $2,400 to help a Plano costume shop struggling to meet its payroll. Seven ways business owners can prepare for adversity SMU super-entrepreneur shares what he’s learned from creating something from nothing June 25, 2020 Carl Dorvil started his first business as an SMU junior. He offers this simple advice to business owners during COVID-19: “Adapt if you can, do something else if you can’t.” Coaching kids through the pandemic New Orleans Saints punter talks about tackling adversity June 25, 2020 Thomas Morstead ’09 has raised millions for sick children through his What You Give Will Grow charity. Now he’s sharing big life lessons with little ones in the new The Middle School Rules book about him. Caring for vulnerable patients A new funding lifeline for a free clinic fighting the pandemic June 24, 2020 As unemployment and COVID-19 cases rise, the Agape Clinic’s medical services are more vital than ever. And SMU alumna Mary Ann Scott ’65 aims to ensure the nonprofit’s healthy future. COVID-19 challenge: Be kind SMU women's soccer kindness challenge inspires an NCAA campaign June 17, 2020 What started as a blood drive for members of the SMU women's soccer team became an acts of kindness challenge, resulting in 156 kind acts and inspiring the NCAA Soccer United Against Hunger national food drive. Simmons professor changes course to offer summit to minority families When in-person seminars became impossible, Candice Bledsoe found a way to inspire students, families June 17, 2020 Three hundred students, parents and teachers tuned in to learn leadership strategies, problem solving and design from local scholars and leaders. Plans unfolding for SMU's fall semester 2020 will be guided by science, common-sense expectations, and the traditional Mustang spirit June 16, 2020 Perkins professor finds meditation brings dignity and purpose to COVID-19 world "Take a minute and sit still," says Perkins world religions professor Ruben Habito June 10, 2020 Christian centering prayer, mindfulness meditation and Zen meditation can help one live with inner peace, quiet joy and gratitude during challenging times. Today Show followed these students from kindergarten to high school graduation Incoming SMU student Eileen Garcia one of 20 students followed for 13 years June 09, 2020 Eileen was born the year after 9-11 and graduated from high school in the midst of a pandemic. She'll share a unique bond with other members of SMU's Class of 2024. Cybersecurity tips for working remotely SMU chief security officer shares best practices to keep devices and data safe June 08, 2020 Cybercriminals are targeting people working remotely; these steps can help your personal and work information stay secure. Victory in a garden box SMU collaborators help community nonprofit pivot to e-commerce May 27, 2020 When outdoor markets shut down, Restorative Farms had to retool its efforts quickly to stay afloat. It’s now selling seedlings online as GroBoxes. Two SMU student teams win grants to prepare for safe return to campus RevTech presents $5,000 to each team to implement proposals for safe student return in COVID-19 world May 26, 2020 Student teams propose symptom-tracker apps, wellness recovery rooms, hands-free door-opening devices and an app for contact-free transactions. Three days, 22 hours, 85 concerts Alum band director plays Plano High fight song for each of his seniors May 26, 2020 Jason Lewis ’04 and his assistant band directors traveled 168 miles and played in sunshine and pouring rain to show their appreciation to each band graduate. SMU prof tracks the sound of silence Noise levels in DFW down 30% during pandemic May 26, 2020 It’s not your imagination – we’ve been generating a lot less noise during the pandemic, says SMU seismologist Stephen Arrowsmith. Maguire Public Service Fellows to help at-risk communities Students’ efforts will focus on research and programs related to the COVID-19 pandemic May 22, 2020 This summer, 10 SMU undergraduate and graduate students will serve as Maguire Public Service Fellows, with much of their work focused on research and programs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. A final project tailored to this time Students reach out to Italians to learn about their lives during the pandemic May 22, 2020 In a video that’s heartwarming, funny and even musical, SMU students demonstrate fluency in empathy and awareness as they converse with new friends in hard-hit Italy. Picuris Pueblo near SMU-in-Taos fights COVID-19 Native American community embraces extraordinary isolation measures May 22, 2020 The pueblo of just 200 members has had several close brushes with annihilation, says SMU archaeologist and director of SMU-in-Taos Mike Adler. Smallpox reduced the population from 2,500 to 500 in the 1600s. Music therapy students deliver telehealth services Improvising with kitchen utensil instruments and writing original songs May 22, 2020 Meadows School students are using HIPAA-compliant Zoom accounts to tune in weekly with clients, aiding their physical and mental health via live music, talking, singing, playing instruments and movement. Alum's film debuts on Amazon Prime The Girls of Summer is a coming-of-age story with ‘lots of improv moments’ May 22, 2020 Tori Titmas ’15 wrote, produced and stars in the movie she made with members of her real-life family and her “adopted grandfather,” director John D. Hancock. Creating the ultimate gaming challenge Could crowdsourcing the video game community crack COVID-19? May 15, 2020 A citizen science effort launched by BALANCED Media|Technology and Complexity Gaming deploys the HEWMEN Cell app to test drug compound data against coronavirus, helping SMU researchers sift through possible treatments faster. Thwarting zero-day ransomware Software developed by SMU stops cyber attacks in a more effective way May 15, 2020 Engineers from SMU’s Darwin Deason Institute for Cybersecurity have developed software that detects ransomware attacks before they inflict catastrophic damage. What makes SMU so special? May 14, 2020 From studying on the Dallas Hall lawn to celebrating on the Boulevard, our May 2020 grads look back on favorite moments from the past four years. Alumni across the country are hosting #StampedeInPlace interactive virtual events May 14, 2020 Check @SMUAlumniNetwork on Facebook for event listings. Ready for a ‘brain break’? Kitten cuteness and other diversions to chase your cares away May 14, 2020 When every day can feel like you’re prepping for a big test, de-stress with virtual jigsaw puzzles, puppy and kitten cams and more chill ideas from SMU Libraries. Learning to separate fact from fiction As conspiracy theories abound, watch for bias and double-check information May 13, 2020 How do you filter out fake coronavirus news? SMU librarian Megan Heuer offers information literacy tips. Residential Commons traditions continue SMU student Anna M. participates in Sunday Night Snacks while sheltering in place May 05, 2020 Sunday Night Snacks is a weekly tradition in SMU's Residential Commons where Faculty-in-Residence and students get together over fresh cookies. Now the tradition has moved online, but the sense of community is still strong. SMU profs and students launch artificial intelligence lab to seek COVID-19 solutions Fred Chang and Jo Guldi lead the search for trends, hidden patterns, insights May 04, 2020 Computer science, the digital humanities and students eager to make a difference are all in the mix for a high-stakes collaboration tapping brainpower and the gift of time. How alumna Ti Martin ’82, co-proprietor of NOLA’s Commander’s Palace is serving the community Alumna Ti Martin ’82, co-proprietor of the restaurant, keeps its hospitable spirit alive May 01, 2020 The legendary Commander’s Palace has teamed up with a New Orleans nonprofit to help feed healthcare workers at all 15 local hospitals. Meals are delivered by out-of-work artists and musicians. COVID-19 hits home for Nashville student Family life changed dramatically when Caitlin Williamson's grandmother was diagnosed with coronavirus May 01, 2020 As her grandmother recovers, Caitlin Williamson has been reminded that family relationships are vital. She has taken this unique time at home to better understand who she is and where she comes from. Ray W. Washburne ’84 named to industry group charting recovery path May 01, 2020 Ray W. Washburne ’84, co-founder and co-owner of M Crowd Restaurant Group, has been tapped by President Donald Trump to serve on a task force developing a recovery plan for the nation’s food and beverage industry. Reflections from the front line SMU student is an essential worker in her part-time job at Target May 01, 2020 From shortages to hoarding, SMU student Sarah Sedaghatzadeh has seen COVID-19 chaos all from the Target check-out line. Her advice? Stay home if you can; if not, be nice to essential workers. SMU epidemiologist weighs in on plans to re-open Texas CBS News reached out to global health expert Eric Bing for insight May 01, 2020 Global health expert Eric Bing calls for more COVID-19 testing to establish a baseline before re-opening Texas. Soap bubbles and Barbie bungee jumps This SMU education prof takes at-home math to new heights April 30, 2020 To help families make math fun and relevant to these times of handwashing and togetherness, SMU math education professor Candace Walkington suggests Soap Bubble Magic, STEMWalks and Barbie Bungee Jumping. Facebook Live alumni concerts Rewind solo jams by Cary Pierce ’91 and Jack O’Neill ’90 of Jackopierce April 29, 2020 SMU alums Cary Pierce ’91 and Jack O’Neill ’90 met as Meadows students and formed the band Jackopierce. Now sheltering at home, they treated fellow Mustangs to solo sets that mixed music with SMU memories and answers to audience questions. Necessity is the mother of reinvention April 27, 2020 For the Odee Company, co-owned by Steve and Sarah Lodwick Holland ’80, the ability to adapt to shifting demands has kept the business going since 1923. Now the printer is churning out hospital gowns for frontline health workers. A slice of the artist's life Art alumna invites us into her virtual kitchen as she makes delectable ceramics April 27, 2020 Fans of “The Great British Baking Show” will marvel at the pastry feats of art alumna Ginger Geyer ’75 of Austin. What’s the secret ingredient in her Instagram-perfect pies? Lots of clay. Artful activities for beating boredom Meadows Museum offers crafts, coloring pages, tiny tours and more April 20, 2020 Got Kool-Aid, flour and water? Find out how to transform them into sculpture with an easy recipe from the Meadows Museum. The staff has been busy concocting fun crafts, learning experiences, virtual tours and more for all ages to enjoy at home. Changing course to fight COVID-19 How one alum got creative when the going got tough April 20, 2020 In just 48 hours, Lucy and Andy Rieger ’09 pivoted J. Rieger & Co. – their family distillery in Kansas City, Missouri – from producing whiskey to making hand sanitizer for hospitals, nursing homes and the community. Hacking the health crisis Alum leads innovation network to combat shortages April 20, 2020 Hubert Zajicek, M.B.A. ’06, a physician and founder and CEO of the Health Wildcatters incubator in Dallas, helped create the Health Hacking Crisis Network to find quick solutions to problems like the face-mask shortage among healthcare workers. Rethinking the retail environment RevTech ‘SAFE Schools’ grants encourage innovation April 20, 2020 What are the long-term solutions for staying safe and using retail services on campus? A partnership between several SMU programs challenges student teams to imagine the future. SMU Center for Family Counseling offers free remote services April 13, 2020 SMU’s Center for Family Counseling is now offering free telehealth counseling to anyone who needs it during the COVID-19 pandemic. Reassuring kids during COVID-19 April 13, 2020 The disruption of daily routines is tough on families, especially children. SMU’s counseling program offers advice for helping your kids feel safe during this uncertain time. Avoid turning home into ‘Camp Chaos’ April 13, 2020 First, take a deep breath. Next, try to approach sheltering at home with a sense of challenge, even adventure, says SMU psychologist George Holden. Check out his pointers for using this time to grow closer as a family. DIG manufactures face shields for area medical professionals What do you do with an idle makerspace in the middle of a global pandemic? Manufacture medical personal protective equipment (PPE), of course. April 06, 2020 Seth Orsborn, professor and director of DIG, and Alyssa Phillips, DIG lab manager, to manufacture face shields for area medical professionals. Take care of yourself during these tough times 11 tips from SMU Counseling Services April 02, 2020 Given the spread of COVID-19 and the disruption to our lives, grief, frustration and uncertainty all are normal reactions. The situation is new and unpredictable! How do we stay emotionally well during these times? Latest News COVID-19 Research Featured News Help students struggling with unexpected expenses. Give Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share