Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Mechanical Engineering Wordmark Logo Diversity, equity and inclusion Log in MyME UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What is Mechanical Engineering? About the Department ABET Accreditation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Map and Directions Job Openings Contact Us Connect with us People People Faculty Research Associates Staff Research Research Research areas Research Centers Research Laboratories Innovation & Impact Prototype Shops News & Events News & Events News Archive Our Stories Faculty Honors Seminar Series The MEssenger Alumni Newsletter Event Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Students Students Undergraduate Students Graduate students Time Schedule & Curriculum Advising Appointment Scheduler Clubs & Competitions Engineering Societies Jobs & Internships Prototype shops Student Resources Graduation Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to Mechanical Engineering Notable Alumni Alumni News External Advisory Board Additional Links Additional Links Diversity, equity and inclusion Log in MyME Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Diversity, equity and inclusion Log in MyME Key research areas Whether developing devices to save lives or prototyping renewable energy technologies, ME faculty and students are creating a healthier, cleaner and more prosperous future through research. Read more Up Next Bubbles for toughness Bubbles for toughness UW researchers collaborate to investigate and advance nanofoams, a new tiny but mighty material. Learn more Up Next Key research areas Why ME? Research Areas Faculty Future Students Current Students Courses EcoCAR Mobility Challenge With EcoCAR, which just wrapped up the last year of its four-year challenge, UW students rebuilt a car and experienced post-COVID camaraderie under the hood of a hybrid vehicle. Read Article ME undergrad competes on ‘Wheel of Fortune’ Abby Simcox represented the UW in March for College Week 2022 on the word puzzle game show. Read Article ME faculty receive nanotech awards Congrats to Ayokunle Olanrewaju and Aniruddh Vashisth for receiving Northwest Nanotechnology Infrastructure seed grants from the Institute for Nano-engineered Systems. Read Article Xu Chen receives SME award ME’s Xu Chen has received a 2022 Sandra L. Bouckley Outstanding Young Manufacturing Engineers Award from the Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME). Read Article More News May 31 Tue EIH Spring Symposium 4:00 pm - 6:00 pm Husky Union Building (HUB) South Ballroom Jun 1 Wed PhD General Examination: Anthony Anderson 10:00 am - 11:30 am Jun 2 Thu UW Space Dialogue w/ MIT Lincoln Lab's Robert Guerriero on “Research and Development Across the Space Surveillance Enterprise” 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Jun 2 Thu ME Capstone Expo 3:30 pm - 6:00 pm Student Union Building (HUB) - HUB South Ballroom Full Calendar CORE VALUES Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The UW department of mechanical engineering is committed to recruiting, welcoming and supporting a diverse and multi-faceted population of undergraduates, graduate students, faculty and staff. Learn more UW INNOVATES Innovation & Impact ME is a leading department at the UW for innovation, commercialization and industry collaboration. As an international epicenter for turning ideas into actions, the University of Washington is launching hundreds of companies across a wide range of fields based on UW research and technology. Learn more HUSKY EXPERIENCE Clubs & Competitions ME’s nationally-recognized clubs and competitions provide students a chance to apply and develop their engineering skills and network for their future lives and careers. Many students even choose to center some of their degree requirements around these activities. Learn more RESEARCH IN FOCUS Machine intelligence Improving the integration of machine vision, intelligence and manipulation is key to developing robotic systems that are better at assisting humans with complex tasks. UW mechanical engineers build robots that play games, perform tasks and advance robotics research goals. Read more Video courtesy of the UW MACS Lab DEPARTMENT SPOTLIGHT Krithika Manohar Mechanical Engineering Assistant Professor Krithika Manohar specializes in machine learning and other mathematical approaches that allow engineers to predict and control what’s going on inside complex and dynamic systems. RELATED STORY Putting the 'AI' in airplanes Machine learning presents tremendous opportunities to improve how we build airplanes. Read more #1 mechanical engineering program in the Pacific Northwest 2x national average female undergraduates #3 source of UW startups 683 new patents filed since 2012 14 affiliated research centers $13M annual research funding Learn more UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Sitemap Log in Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation © 2022 Mechanical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA