Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Public Humanities Master's Theses This year, four students in the Class of 2022 completed Master’s Thesis, a new option available to Public Humanities Master's students. The award committee (Professors Steve Lubar, Diane O’Donoghue and DietrichNeumann) was delighted with the outcome, the range and diversity of approaches, and decided to honor each of the four students who took on the challenge with a Distinguished Thesis Award. Congratulations to Ariel, Felicia, Miranda and Rai!! Felicia Bartley, MA'22, Indian People Cultural Center, Albuquerque, NM. Thesis Committee: Robert Preucel, James Manning Professor of Anthropology, Director of Haffenreffer Museum (Advisor); Adrienne J.Keene, Assistant Professor of American Studies; and Theodore S. Jojola, School of Architecture + Planning, University of New Mexico . Ariel Lynch, MA'22, Resonance: Notes on Love & Sound. Thesis Committee: Sophie Abramowitz, Postdoctoral Fellow Department of American Studies & Center for Digital Scholarship (Advisor); and Diane O’Donoghue, Visiting Professor of Public Humanities. Rai Terry, MA'22, Memoriam: Legacy, Vibration and Mourning in Archival Technologies. Thesis Committee: Sophie Abramowitz, Postdoctoral Fellow, American Studies & Center for Digital Scholarship (Advisor); and Aliyyah Abdur-Rahman, Associate Professor of American Studies and English. Miranda Worl, MA'22, Recommendations for the Alaska State Museum Code of Ethics: on the Rights of Native Peoples. Thesis Committee: Steven Lubar, Professor of American Studies, Professor of History, Director of Center for Digital Scholarship (Advisor); Nadia Sethi, The CIRI Foundation; and Anjuli Grantham, The Alaska State Museum. Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top