Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Accessibility Services Student Resources General Information A variety of student resources are provided to assist students registered with Student Accessibility Services. Some of the resources available to students are listed below. General information for prospective students is provided in the Student Accessibility Services brochure. Incoming Student Information Student Accessibility Services will begin meeting with incoming freshmen and new Clemson students once Orientation sessions begin in June 2022. Because our processes and protocols are evolving and will be changing prior to the summer, we are unable to determine academic accommodations or conduct Welcome Meetings until this time. Incoming students who are requesting Housing accommodations are able to schedule a meeting prior to Orientation to discuss their housing requests. A Welcome Meeting will be scheduled at a later time to discuss academic accommodation requests. Faculty Notification Letter Requests (each semester needed) Students registered with Student Accessibility Services can request their Faculty Notification Letters using the following link: Request Faculty Notification Letters. Once on the site, students will log in with their Clemson credentials and can request the letters that they would like to be sent to their professors electronically. If students have any additional questions, please contact the SAS office. Assistive Technology Assistive Technology Barrier(s) Assistive Technology available How will it help you? Reading Fluency Reading Comprehension Visual Impairments E-text Text-to-speech Software, Read&Write (Free download available to students by visiting www.clemson.edu/ccit) Reads aloud a variety of text formats on your computer such as PDFs, word documents, websites, and screenshots. By requesting E-Texts through our office, you will have access to your textbooks in a PDF format that the Text-To-Speech software (Read&Write) can read aloud to you. Note taking Concentration Processing Writing Livescribe Echo Smartpen (65 pens available for use through SAS or you may purchase your own at various office/technology Small number of electronic voice recorders (Please Note: You may us your own device-computer, tablet, phone, etc.-to record a lecture after discussing recording with your professor) Smartpens are changing how students take notes in class! These pens have a built in recorder and camera to record what your instructors are saying and what you are writing. It automatically syncs what was said and what you were writing at that very second, making playing back your lectures and filling in details very easy! Write Less, Listen More! Note taking Concentration Processing Writing Free/low cost apps Free/low cost Apps Resources Student Note-taking Resources Visual Impairment Total Blindness Screen magnification software Large print keyboards Desktop magnifiers Screen magnification software (ZoomText) is available for use in our office and in the Test Proctoring Center (TPC). Large print keyboards are located in each testing room and in our office. Also, 2 desktop magnifiers are located in our office. Total Blindness Visual Impairment Screen reading software Braille JAWS screen reading software is installed on each testing computer in the TPC and in our office. Braille orders can be placed by contacting our office. Allow at least 2 weeks for Braille orders to be completed. Communication Services Real Time Captioning Students who are Deaf or hard of hearing can access lectures, class discussions, and other events/presentations by having a highly skilled caption writer provide real-time text-based access to the spoken/auditory message. The student can view the captioning on a laptop computer or other device, delivered via a wireless connection. Within 24 hours of the lecture/discussion/etc., the student will receive an edited (for grammar and spelling only) transcript of the event. Sign Language Interpreters Students who are Deaf or hard of hearing often request interpreters from this office when they register for classes. University departments that receive requests or anticipate needing an interpreter for public meetings or events should contact Student Accessibility Services. To ensure the availability of interpreters, this office encourages individuals to make requests at least two weeks in advance. Guidelines for Working with Interpreters Interpreters working for Clemson University are bound by the code of ethics developed by the National Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf, which specifies that interpreters are to serve as communications intermediaries only. Thus, when an interpreter is present, speak directly to the person who is deaf or hard of hearing rather than to the interpreter and avoid using phrases such as “tell him” or “ask her.” Other important guidelines include: Relax and talk normally, noting that there might be a lag time between the spoken message and the interpretation. American Sign Language has a grammar structure that is completely different than spoken English. When referring to objects or written information, allow time for the translation to take place. Replace terms such as “here” and “there” with more specific terms, such as “on the second line” and “in the left corner.” In a conference room or class environment, the Deaf student and the interpreter will work out seating arrangements with the interpreter usually located near the speaker. This allows the Deaf student to view both the interpreter and the speaker. Inform the interpreter in advance if there is an audiovisual element in a presentation so arrangements can be made for lighting and positioning. If there is a need to turn out the lights completely during a presentation, please inform the interpreter ahead of time so that arrangements can be made with the student. Most events on campus, including classroom proceedings, will require the use of two interpreters in order to maintain the integrity of the process. The interpreters will swap out every 20-30 minutes with no interruption to the presentation. Electronic Textbooks Scanning instructions STEP 1: After purchasing your textbook and obtaining a copy of your proof of purchase, log into your Student Accessibility Services student portal. STEP 2: Scroll down to and click the Alternate Format tab on the left side of your dashboard page. Verify that you have entered your E-Text format preference (i.e. PDF, doc, Braille) in the dropdown menu on this page. STEP 3: Manually enter your request for your textbook making sure to include the title, author, ISBN-13, and edition for each book. Proof of purchase or rental of textbooks must be provided with the request form. If you are unable to submit a request for E-Text to upload your proof of purchase on your student portal, you may choose to email your request to studentaccess@lists.clemson.edu or drop off a completed copy of the E-Text Request Form and proof of purchase to Student Accessibility Services in the Academic Success Center, Suite 239. Student Accessibility Services staff will confirm receipt of your E-Text Request Form and verify that your proof of purchase matches the textbook requests that you have submitted before processing your requests. STEP 4: Occasionally, E-Texts are not available for some books. If this is the case, Student Accessibility Services staff will notify you. If this situation occurs, Student Accessibility Services can cut the spine off your textbook and scan each page to create a PDF file of the book. This process can take longer to complete and return to you. STEP 5: E-Texts are delivered to your student email address via a Clemson Box Download Link (Clemson Box is a cloud storage system provided by CCIT). The link may expire after a few business days so you will need to open the link to download your E-Texts in a timely manner. Housing Accommodations Disability-related housing accommodations are to be requested through our office. Students with disabilities must follow the established Housing Office sign-up procedures. Students with disabilities requesting housing accommodations must begin the process by submitting the request to Student Accessibility Services. Students must provide documentation from an appropriate professional indicating diagnosis and the need for housing accommodations. This must include: Clearly stated diagnosis, ruling out alternative explanations and diagnoses Defined levels of functioning and any limitations Current treatment and medication Current letter/report (within one year), typed, dated and signed on letterhead Documentation must be updated annually from an appropriately licensed professional. It is the responsibility of the student to notify Student Accessibility Services each semester that accommodations are needed (prior to signing up for housing). Students requesting Housing Accommodations will need to meet with SAS staff to complete the appropriate Housing Accommodation forms. Please call our office to make an appointment. For more information, see Accommodated Housing. Transportation Accommodations Student Accessibility Services and Parking and Transportation Services work to ensure that students with temporary and permanent mobility impairments have equal access to campus. Before accessing mobility accommodations, students will need to submit the following information to Student Accessibility Services: Appropriate medical documentation related to the mobility impairment or temporary mobility condition. The documentation should specifically state how long the transportation accommodations will be needed and provide a rationale for the need. Students must submit the short-term transportation request form and return it to Student Accessibility Services. This information can be emailed or hand delivered to Student Accessibility Services. Email: studentaccess@lists.clemson.edu Office: Academic Success Center Building, Suite 239 Once this information is received by Student Accessibility Services, we will review the information and inform the student of our recommendation(s) to Parking Services. The student will then go to Parking Services to pick up their temporary parking permit and/or mobility scooter. Please allow 72 hours for Student Accessibility Services and Parking Services to process your request. Temporary Medical Permits Students with temporary mobility impairments can obtain a time-limited disability access parking permit from Parking Services. Students must have already purchased or will need to purchase and display a current Clemson University student parking permit, along with the temporary disability access parking permit in order to park in accessible parking spaces on campus. When these are properly displayed, parking is permitted in handicap, employee, student, and metered parking spaces. Campus maps indicating parking zones are located on the Parking and Transportation Services website. Individuals who need accessible parking for longer than four months or who desire to park in off-campus disability accessible spaces must obtain a state permit from the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). Individuals already using a state issued accessible parking tag, must inform Parking Services office to register this tag for use on campus. Mobility Scooters Mobility Scooters are available for students to use to maneuver around campus independently while experiencing temporary and/or permanent mobility impairments. These scooters are housed in Parking Services and can be rented by students for a fee of $20 per week. The request for a mobility scooter must be accompanied by a written statement from a physician indicating the need for transportation accommodations and the length of time it will be needed. NOTE: Mobility scooters may be used in conjunction with other transportation and/or parking accommodations. The scooters are meant to be used inside and outside and can be driven into elevators, classrooms, residence halls, and onto Clemson Area Transit buses. Scooters need to be charged regularly for optimal daily use. Point-to-Point Transportation For students with temporary and/or permanent mobility impairments, in which little to no walking is permitted for a given length of time, point to point transportation services is available through Parking Services. Once approved, the student will be instructed by Student Disability Services to contact Parking Services to communicate the dates and times that individualized transportation is needed. Parking Services is located in the Edgar A. Brown University Union. Business hours are 7:30am-4:30pm. Parking Services can be reached by calling 864-656-2270 or by emailing parking@clemson.edu. For transportation emergencies after-hours, contact CUPD at 864-656-2222. Clemson Area Transit (CAT) CAT has accessible buses and multiple routes. Routes and maps are published and can be accessed at www.catbus.com. Occasional route deviations can be pre-arranged through Student Accessibility Services. The normal CAT bus routes are free to students, faculty/staff, visitors, and community members. A real-time bus tracker app is now available for download by visiting the CAT bus website! Home Guidelines Student Resources Spectrum Program Faculty Resources Accommodated Testing Barrier Report Registering with SAS Information for Parents FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram