By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stay Safe Stay Safe Pledge More from this Section Support Resources for Students in Quarantine or Isolation Get Tested Disability Access and Inclusion Resources Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Staff Public Health Guidance Resources Updates Stay Safe Pledge: Spring 2022 (Updated January 18, 2022) Stay Safe. Stay Healthy. Do Your Part. Read the pledge, then click “Take the Stay Safe Pledge” button at the bottom of the page. As Syracuse University and Central New York manage the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and current Omicron variant surge, the Stay Safe Pledge will be modified, as needed, to respond to changing conditions as well as health and safety directives from federal, state, and local officials. All members of the Orange community are expected to take an active role in promoting the safety, health and well-being of every campus community member. That means abiding by all health and safety directives and encouraging others to do the same. We will all do our part to keep ourselves, our peers, our colleagues and all Syracuse University community members safe, especially those who may be more vulnerable than us. As a member of the Orange community, I am committed to keeping myself and the Orange community healthy and safe from the spread of COVID-19. I pledge to take the following actions: How to Keep Myself Safe Provide valid documentation of COVID-19 vaccination and booster (or exemption) to the Barnes Center prior to my return to campus or within one week of eligibility. Follow masking guidance in accordance with the COVID-19 Mask Framework regardless of vaccination status. If I am unvaccinated and accessing campus with an approved medical or religious exemption, I will mask indoors at all times (except in my residence hall room), and outdoors when in the presence of others. Provide valid documentation of flu vaccine (or exemption) prior to the start of the Spring 2022 semester. Wash my hands regularly. Monitor my health for symptoms of COVID-19 and notify the Barnes Center if I exhibit symptoms. How to Keep the Orange Community Safe Wear an effective mask as defined by the CDC and avoid use of gaiters, masks with valves, and face shields while masking on campus. Wear a mask in all healthcare spaces on campus, including the Barnes Center at The Arch and on-campus testing centers. Wear a mask while riding public transportation provided by the University including trolleys, shuttles and CENTRO buses. Comply with all Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) domestic and international travel guidelines for any personal travel. Adhere to all directives and University guidance if I need to be isolated or quarantined. Don’t attend in-person classes or participate in activities if exhibiting any symptoms of the COVID-19 virus, awaiting diagnostic test results (other than campus surveillance test), or test positive for the virus. Participate in surveillance testing, as required. Immediately notify Syracuse University's COVID-19 Office of a positive COVID-19 test result if receiving a test not provided by the University. Immediately and honestly participate in contact tracing as may be requested. Encourage others, including campus visitors, to follow these terms. Follow all health and safety directives from University officials. Follow directives from the CDC, New York State, and/or local authorities that may be in effect during the semester. The safety of our community is a shared responsibility, and my actions can put myself and others at risk. I understand that whether or not I take this pledge, failure to comply with these directives may result in a referral to Community Standards for violation of the Code of Student Conduct, which governs individual and group behavior on and off campus. Sanctions for violating COVID-19 directives may be found on the Community Standards website. We recognize that some students with disabilities may need to modify some aspects of this pledge. Students who believe they may not be able to adhere to these protocols for disability-related reasons should contact the Center for Disability Resources to request a reasonable accommodation. Email: disabilityresources@syr.edu. Phone: 315.443.4498. Take the Stay Safe Pledge Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy