Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Psychology Menu Admissions Information Faculty and Research Current Students Forms for Current StudentsHandbookForumLinks Prospective Students Why Our Program?Recent Internship PlacementsRecent DissertationsPractica Placement OpportunitiesCurrent Student BiographiesLinks Diversity Diversity Training StatementDiversity Committee Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Psychology Counseling Psychology Our APA-accredited Ph.D. program in Counseling Psychology is a full-time program designed to train psychologists who promote human development in the areas of mental health, emotional and social learning, career development, and decision-making in a rapidly changing environment. Students entering with a master's degree typically complete three years of coursework and a fourth year of pre-doctoral internship. The majority of students complete their dissertations prior to or during the internship and graduate at the end of their fourth year. Philosophy Training is organized around the scientist-practitioner model of critical thinking and program faculty strive for an equivalent emphasis on developing both clinical understanding and skills and facility with research. The program emphasizes responsibility and commitment to human welfare. Didactic and experiential activities and coursework are designed to anchor students firmly within the discipline of psychology. The department has a strong commitment to training professionals to work with diverse populations in urban settings. Program Goals and Objectives In accordance with the missions of the university, college, and department, the Counseling Psychology program prepares professional psychologists who, upon graduation, are expected to become licensed and assume leadership roles in their communities. Students are expected to acquire: (1) a knowledge and skills base in psychology, research, counseling, psychological evaluation, and ethical, legal, and professional standards; (2) an identity as a counseling psychologist; and (3) the cultural competence needed for working in a diverse environment. The program is individualized to meet the students' goals. Graduates are prepared for positions in various settings including university counseling centers, community mental health centers, medical centers, independent practice, academia, and business. More detailed information on program goals, objectives, and competencies can be found here. Faculty Research The Counseling Psychology program places a strong emphasis on engaging in the research process. Faculty supervise research teams that provide students with opportunities to gain experience with the research process, present at conferences, and publish. Current faculty study GLBT issues, international issues, health disparities, career development, multicultural and early family career issues, sexuality, wellness, and masculinity. Student Information The program admits 7-8 students each year. Applicants are admitted once each year and are expected to begin coursework in the Fall semester; applicants for Spring admission are not considered. Students entering with a master's degree are expected to spend a minimum of three years in residence in Memphis and then complete a pre-doctoral internship in their fourth year. Students complete 78 hours of coursework in the substantive areas of psychology and counseling psychology, 12 hours of dissertation credit, and 9 hours of internship credit. Clinical Training Opportunities The Memphis area provides a wide variety of field training sites including mental health centers, hospitals/medical settings, college counseling centers, prisons, rehabilitation agencies, and independent practices. Students typically enroll in their first practicum placement in the summer of their first year. Most students enroll in four or five practica semesters during the program. Because of our urban location and the many needs of the Memphis community, practicum sites often provide services to a range of underserved populations. Student Financial Aid Support is available through a variety of research and teaching assistantships. Assistantships are provided on a competitive basis at the department level. Selected community training sites appropriate for professional counseling psychologists offer paid external placements that provide experience, training, and monetary stipends. A limited number of scholarships are available through the Graduate School. Details are available in the Graduate Catalog. Eligible students may also apply for available grants and loans. Accreditation The program was first accredited by the American Psychological Association in October, 1989 and has maintained accreditation since that time. APA accreditation allows program graduates to be eligible for the licensure exam (Examination for the Professional Practice in Psychology - EPPP) upon completion of their degree and state licensure requirements. As part of our accreditation, we provide information on student admissions, outcomes, and other data. Information about the program accreditation status can be obtained from the American Psychological Association Commission on Accreditation (CoA). CoA can be contacted at: American Psychological Association Office of Program Consultation & Accreditation 750 First Street NE Washington DC 20002-4242 (202) 336-5979 apaaccred@apa.org Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.