COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW University Faculty Awards Section Menu WSU Faculty Awards Home Current Recipients Past Recipients RSVP Honoring faculty excellence since 1964 The University Faculty Awards recognizes faculty who are setting the gold standard for teaching, research and creative activity at Wichita State University. The Excellence in Teaching was established in 1964 by the University of Wichita Board of Regents, now known as the WSU Board of Trustees, to recognize superior teaching. Over time, additional awards with varying criteria have been established by the WSU Board of Trustees, Academic Affairs and Research Administration. Current Honorees Past Honorees 2022 Faculty Awards The 2022 University Faculty Awards will be held at 2 p.m. on Friday, May 6 in the Marcus Welcome Center. RSVP Contact Us University Faculty Awards 1845 Fairmount St. Box 62 Wichita, Kansas 67260-0062 Email the University Faculty Awards T: 316-978-3142 The Awards Academy for Effective Teaching Award Established in 1996, these awards are given by WSU's Academy for Effective Teaching, a group of outstanding emeriti faculty nominated for membership by current faculty and staff at WSU. Recipients of the AET Teaching Award are chosen through a multi-stage process. After collecting nominations from current upper-division and graduate students, the 10-person AET Steering Committee creates a short list of excellent teachers, each of whom is invited to submit a teaching portfolio. On the basis of the portfolios, the AET Steering Committee recommends winners to the Provost, who makes the final award. Awardees who are full-time faculty receive a $2,000 addition to their base salary beginning the following academic year; adjunct awardees receive a one-time $2,000 award. Faculty Awards The university college / dean forwards the nominations for faculty awards to the Office of the Provost on, or before, January 14, 2022. Leadership in the Advancement in Teaching Award Wichita State University's Board of Trustees established the Leadership in the Advancement of Teaching Award in 1982 to recognize exemplary effort and leadership in improvement and learning at WSU. The recipient is awarded $2,500. Nomination Criteria and Form Excellence in Teaching Award The University of Wichita Board of Regents, now known as the WSU Board of Trustees, established a corpus of $50,000 in 1964 to provide grants to recognize superior teaching. The recipient is awarded $2,000. Nomination Criteria Excellence in Online Teaching Award This award was established in 2019 to recognize faculty who have gone above and beyond expectations with teaching online courses. The recipient is awarded $2,000. Nomination Criteria and Form Excellence in Accessibility Award The Office of Academic Affairs established the Excellence in Accessibility Award in 2018 to recognize a faculty member or instructor who has achieved excellence in creating an accessible learning environment for all students; has exceeded the minimum standard of accessibility in their courses; or has acted as a leader in promoting the development of accessible learning environments across campus. All faculty and instructors teaching at least half time are eligible to be nominated. Self-nominations are welcome. The recipient is awarded $2,000. Nomination Criteria and Form Young Faculty Scholar Award Wichita State University's Board of Trustees established the Young Faculty Scholar Award in 1988 to recognize faculty members who are between their third and eighth year of service and have records of excellence in teaching performance and substantial achievement in research and / or creative activity. The recipient receives a one-time $2,000 award. Nomination Criteria and Form Young Faculty Risk Taker Award In 2017, the Office of Academic Affairs established this award to support the university's strategic plan and recognize the importance of positive risk taking as a unique value at Wichita State. The award acknowledges and rewards experiments outside the norm in teaching, research and service. Recipients receive a one-time grant of $2,000. Nomination Criteria and Form Faculty Risk Taker Award In 2017, the Office of Academic Affairs established this award to support the university's strategic plan and recognize the importance of positive risk taking as a unique value at Wichita State. The award acknowledges and rewards experiments outside the norm in teaching, research and service. Recipients receive a one-time grant of $2,000. Nomination Criteria and Form Excellence in Research Awards Nominations for the Excellence in Research Awards are due to the Office of Research on, or before, Dec. 3, 2021. Excellence in Creative Activity Award The Excellence in Creative Activity Award, established in 1999, is given to a faculty member who has established an exemplary record of creative activity that has brought recognition to the University. Creative activity can include work in musical compositions, visual arts, choreography, writing, and performance. Full-time faculty who have been at WSU for three years are eligible. The recipient is awarded $2,500. Nomination Criteria and Form Excellence in Research Award The Excellence in Research Award, established in 1997, recognizes a faculty member who has established an exemplary record of research that has advanced the University's research mission. Full-time faculty who have been at WSU for three years are eligible. The recipient is awarded $2,500. Nomination Criteria and Form Community Research Award The Community Research Award recognizes a faculty member who has established an exemplary and demonstrable record of scholarship extended to external constituents resulting in significant outcome for individuals, organizations, or community in problem solving or development. Full-time faculty who have served at WSU for at least three years are eligible. The recipient is awarded $2,500. Nomination Criteria and Form John A. See Innovation Award Nominations for the John A. See Award are due on, or before, Feb. 1 annually. The John A. See Awards began in 2014 after See donated $1 million to provide prizes to WSU faculty and students conducting outstanding research or producing other significant work. John A. See was director of flight test and prototype development at Boeing until his retirement in 1985. Although not a Wichita State alumnus, he has been a generous WSU supporter who values the importance of higher education and believes in WSU’s commitment to growth and pioneering work. This award is administered by the College of Innovation and Design. Nomination Form 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©