Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Psychology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Psychology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Psychology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Psychology Labs Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Psychology Prepare for future psychological research with the Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 123-credit undergraduate degree provides a modern curriculum designed to develop students’ critical thinking skills through emphasis on the scientific basis of psychology, as well as courses in statistics and research methodology. Students study a range of topics, from biological bases of cognition and behavior to sociocultural influences on human interactions and psychological disorders. The Psychology Major’s flexible curriculum comprises introductory, foundational and advanced courses, culminating in a final capstone course taken during your senior year. Throughout your time in the program, you'll have the opportunity to develop applied skills through rigorous and highly focused experiential learning in community-based internships and research laboratories. Temple’s Department of Psychology and Neuroscience maintains a strong commitment to scholarly and scientific excellence and progress. Faculty members lead key research initiatives that contribute to important scientific discoveries in state-of-the-art labs such as the Temple University Brain Research and Imaging Center, where lab members utilize a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner received through a National Science Foundation grant. The curriculum for the Psychology Major is designed to be sufficiently flexible to satisfy undergraduates’ diverse needs. Students may select an individually tailored curriculum for employment or further study in business, law, medicine, neuroscience, psychology or related fields. Psychology Program at Temple Ambler You can also complete most of the undergraduate Temple Psychology requirements at our Ambler Campus. Psychology students in Ambler complete the same coursework as Main Campus students while benefiting from smaller class sizes in a suburban setting. Students can take advantage of exciting research opportunities at the campus’s nationally acclaimed Infant and Child Laboratory. Learn more about Temple Ambler’s Psychology degree program. Classes & Curriculum Courses you are likely to take as part of the Psychology Major curriculum include Careers in Psychology, Conducting Psychological Research Critical Thinking in Psychology, Foundations of Cognitive Psychology, Foundations of Psychopathology and Statistics for Psychology. Learn more about Psychology Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Decision Neuroscience PhD Psychological Research MS Psychology PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD* Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH* Social and Behavioral Sciences PhD* Social Work MSW** *College of Public Health **School of Social Work Psychology Accelerated 5-Year Master’s Program (+1) The +1 Masters in Psychological Research program offers outstanding Psychology majors the opportunity to earn both the Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and the Master of Science in Psychological Research in just five years. Admission to the program is highly selective. The program provides a research-intensive experience, advanced coursework and professional development to students who intend to pursue doctoral studies in any of the academic psychology disciplines. Students apply to the program in the spring semester of their junior year after completing a minimum of 72 undergraduate credits. Additionally, students must have a faculty sponsor who has agreed to mentor the student’s master’s project research during the four-semester program. Learn more about this accelerated degree program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Nicole Pileggi is a senior academic advisor for the Psychology Major. Phone: 215-204-3403 Email: nicole.pileggi@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Psychology Major, contact the following staff member. Lauren McDuffie is the senior academic coordinator in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7320 Email: lmcd@temple.edu For general questions about the program, contact the below staff members. Peter Marshall is chair of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7360 Email: peter.marshall@temple.edu Peter James is the associate chair of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-3409 Email: pjames@temple.edu Veronica Holloway is the senior administrator in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-2644 Email: veronica.holloway@temple.edu Joanne West is the undergraduate coordinator for the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-5998 Email: joanne.west@temple.edu Honors Psychology Program The Honors Psychology Program is a two-year program of study that begins with a yearlong investigation of methodology, critical thinking and writing. In the second year, the program culminates in the production of a senior thesis that is presented at the student poster session. Each semester, the honors class explores a new topic in depth. Student-led discussions complement traditional lectures, encouraging students to engage fully with the course content. The main goals of the Honors Psychology Program are to help students form an integrated panoramic view of the field of psychology, from its historical roots to current perspectives; provide students with a foundation in scientific methodology that they can incorporate into their senior thesis; and encourage students to grapple with key theoretical and research ideas related to their particular interest. Learn more about the Honors Psychology Program, and explore undergraduate research opportunities in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Psychology BA program. The Psychology Majors Association aims to provide opportunities for students to apply their knowledge and appreciation of psychology through activities outside of the classroom. It promotes networking between students and faculty members within Temple’s Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Members participate in career development opportunities, field trips, volunteer work and workshops, and they discuss current topics in psychology. Psychology Majors of Color was established to support and retain undergraduate students of color who study psychology, neuroscience and related areas. The club seeks to holistically enhance students’ academic experiences by creating a space for students of color to connect and network; educating members about the breadth of careers in psychology; and providing opportunities for members to learn about and participate within the field of psychology. Psi Chi is the National Honor Society in Psychology, offering opportunities for growth and development within the field of psychology by encouraging students to engage in research and continue their education in graduate studies. The Psychology Graduate Students for Inclusivity—Undergraduate Arm promotes diversity and inclusivity in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. It connects with Temple undergraduate students through various channels to encourage and support students from diverse backgrounds, including the recruitment and retention of students from diverse backgrounds to the Temple Psychology graduate program. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PSY-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Psychology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Psychology Labs Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info