Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Graduate Certificate Transform ideas into reality with the Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Jointly designed and delivered by Fox and Temple’s College of Engineering for entrepreneurial-minded innovators and working professionals, this specialized graduate certificate teaches students to think outside the box and recognize unique business opportunities in the technology space; realize ideas, visions and concepts through planning, design and execution; and develop the right business model for innovative technological services or products. As part of a system of technology commercialization support programs offered by the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute, the program offers students access to customized workshops, conferences and faculty mentorships to support their academic and professional goals. Students in the program are typically entrepreneurs with an innovative idea for a new product or service; executives looking to monetize technology, products or services; and research and development professionals seeking career mobility. Hybrid course formats consisting of both online and in-person meetings allow busy professionals to complete the nine-credit program in as quickly as one semester. Students also have the opportunity to transfer credits to graduate degree programs, such as the Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS or MBA program. Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Classes & Curriculum The Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization’s core courses and electives include the following offerings, among others. Entrepreneurial Thinking and New Venture Creation Lean Entrepreneurship/Innovation: Fast and Frugal Methods to Launch Startups and Test Innovative Ideas Management of Technology and Innovation Plan, Pitch and Fund an Entrepreneurial Start-Up Learn more about Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Graduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Digital Innovation in Marketing MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Related Graduate Certificates Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Careers The Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization provides the tools necessary for entrepreneurs and innovative professionals to take their careers to the next level. For recent graduates who are entering the workforce, this certificate supports an array of career options in several different fields including business, medicine, the sciences and technology. Possible positions include analytical research and development scientist, clinical trial specialist, data science specialist, engineer, research analyst, research and development technician, research scientist, and technology licensing officer. Program Contact Robert C. McNamee is the managing director of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute. Phone: 215-204-4119 Email: robert.mcnamee@temple.edu Rachel Carr is the associate director for specialized master’s programs. Phone: 215-204-0574 Email: rcarr@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ENTC-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info