Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Enrollment Services Registrar Transcript Requests Transcript Requests How Do I Request A Transcript? Official transcripts should be requested online through the NSC using either the Order Transcript/Verification tile on your Student Homepage in my.SMU or the National Student Clearinghouse secure site. NOTE: Some users have experienced an issue with the my.SMU link to the NSC. We are working to correct the problem. If you have an issue using the my.SMU link, please go to the National Student Clearinghouse directly to place your transcript order. NSC walks you through placing an order, including delivery options and fees (see below). You may order as many transcripts as you like in a single session. To ensure confidentiality and to comply with federal regulations governing education records, you must authenticate yourself. This is done during the ordering process. Transcripts can be ordered 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Transcript requests are processed in the order they are received twice a day during business hours, once in the morning and once in the afternoon. Requests received after 1:00 P.M. are processed the next business day. Requests that are placed during holidays will be processed in the order they are received when the office reopens. Email notifications are sent to the requester after orders are received and processed by the University Registrar. If you need assistance or have questions about the National Student Clearinghouse’s transcript ordering service, please contact them via email at transcripts@studentclearinghouse.org or phone at 703-742-7791. **Official transcripts cannot be released unless the student (or alumni) has satisfied all financial or other obligations to the University. Transcript Requests are not accepted via phone, mail, or email. Current Students & Former Students (with active my.SMU accounts) Students (and former students with an active my.SMU account) should request official transcripts through the Order Transcript/Verification tile on your Student Homepage in my.SMU. You are authenticated when you log into my.SMU. Former Students (with inactive my.SMU accounts) Former students without an active my.SMU account should request official transcripts through the NSC secure site. Parents and Other Third Parties Parents may obtain their student’s transcript provided their student has either 1) an authorized release of his/her academic record via the Release of Education Record in my.SMU, or 2) a written authorization from their student. Click here to obtain the “Student’s Consent for SMU to Release Information to Student’s Specified Third Party” form that should be completed by the student. NOTE: SMU is permitted, but not required, to disclose to parents information contained in the education records of the student if the student is a dependent as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Transcripts may be released to “Other Third Parties” as specified by the student on the “Student’s Consent for SMU to Release Information to Student’s Specified Third Party” form. ** Students must request their transcripts online in advance in order for the designated Parent or Other Third Party to pick up. When ordering the official transcript online, “Hold for Pick-Up” should be selected. ** Parents and Other Third Parties must show a signed photo ID before a transcript is released. Delivery Options Mail Official transcripts can be mailed via First Class USPS, unless otherwise specified. PDF Official transcripts can be sent electronically in a PDF format if you attended SMU after summer 1996. It is your responsibility to ensure that the recipient accepts electronic PDF transcripts. The PDF option must be selected when ordering. NOTE: Recipients and their email address must be designated when placing the order through the NSC secure website. Recipients will receive two separate emails that include login information and password. The PDF bears the SMU logo in the background. Forwarded copies are classified as unofficial transcripts. Recipients have 30 days from the first day the transcript is opened or accessed to view, print, and save the PDF transcript. After 30 days the link which allows access to the transcript will expire. Hold for Pick-Up A transcript order may be designated as “Hold For Pick-Up.” Official transcripts may be picked up at the University Registrar’s Office located in the Laura Lee Blanton Student Services Building Room 101, 6185 Airline Road, Dallas, Texas. Click here for business hours. Photo identification is required for students, parents and other third parties to pick-up official transcripts. See “Parents and Other Third Parties” above for information regarding how a designated third party picks up an official transcript. Transcript Fees Transcripts are $12.50 per copy. Multiple transcripts being sent to the same address are $3.50 for each additional transcript. Additional transcripts mailed to different addresses are $12.50 per copy. PDF transcripts are $12.50 per email address. Express Delivery Options Within the U.S. Mexico/Canada International Additional $27 Additional $37 Additional $45 Additional Forms Accompanying Official Transcripts You may attach a form to be sent as part of your transcript request. The following stipulations apply: Forms must be two pages or less. If more than two pages, send attachment via fax (see below). Delivery Method must be mail, overnight express delivery, or Hold for Pick-Up. (Forms cannot be sent when delivery method is an electronic PDF.) Acceptable formats for attached forms are jpg, jpeg, pdf, doc, and docx. Fax: 214-768-2507 SMU Registrar's Office PO BOX 750181 Dallas, TX 75275-0181 Status of Transcript Requests Email notifications are sent to the requester after orders are placed through the NSC, and received and processed by the University Registrar. For additional information, please contact Enrollment Services at 214-768-3417 or enrol_serv@smu.edu. Unofficial Transcripts Current and former students with active my.SMU accounts may view an unofficial transcript through the Student Center within my.SMU. If you do not have an active account in my.SMU, you cannot access the unofficial transcript and must order an official transcript through the National Student Clearinghouse. To report a complaint or suggestion regarding transcript services, please contact the University Registrar at registrar@smu.edu. Registrar Academic Advising Calendars and Course Catalogs Registrar Office Teams Academic Ceremonies Academic Records Credit by Examination Alumni and Former Students Confidentiality FERPA Securing & Protecting Student Records Current Students Degree Verifications Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Faculty and Staff FAQs Forms Library Graduation & Diploma Services History SMU Honor Roll Registrar's Office Marketplace Preferred Name & Name Change Non-Degree and Visiting Students NCAA Academic Certification Summer School Transcript Requests Transfer and Transition Services Transfer Credit Veterans Affairs Contact Us Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share