Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Crime Prevention Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Security Alerts Staying Safe Crime Prevention How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Sensitive Crimes Active Shooter Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter in Place Office Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Crime Prevention What is crime prevention? Crime prevention is defined as "the anticipation, the recognition, and the appraisal of a crime risk and the initiation of action to remove or reduce it." The first step in crime prevention is to realize that in order to prevent crime or becoming a crime victim we must accept that crime prevention is a shared responsibility. It is not a college problem or a police problem. It is a societal problem that can only be properly addressed by the entire campus community. On a college campus that includes, students, faculty, staff, visitors and neighbors. Therefore, campus safety is truly a shared responsibility. Three elements must be present for a crime to occur; desire, ability, and opportunity. This is also known as the crime triangle. A person may "want" to commit a crime, and have the "ability" to commit a crime, but if we deny them the "opportunity," then no crime can be committed. Historically, the primary goal of crime prevention has been to apprehend criminals. Although this goal is still important, the goal of preventing crime and also reducing the cost of crime has taken on significant importance. Our goal is to help individuals prevent crime by helping them make decisions in their every day lives to reduce the opportunity for crime to occur, whether on campus or not. Understanding campus crime prevention and how you can personally increase your chances of having a safe and enjoyable college experience will mutually benefit you and your campus. UHPD offers a variety of crime prevention programs to our community members, including: Personal Safety Awareness Operation ID Residential and Office Security Sexual Assault Awareness Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention New Student and Employee Police Service Orientation Community Dialogue Failure to Safeguard Program Bike Registration Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Alcohol Awareness Drug Awareness Crime prevention is important to the campus community and you can help by reporting any crime or suspected crime to UHPD immediately. By doing so, you may be preventing someone else from becoming a victim of a more serious crime. Police officers assigned to your beat and patrol area will be glad to give demonstrations and talks to interested campus groups. Call our crime prevention officer for additional information. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies