Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Report An Incident Crime Alerts Blue Light Services About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log Cornell Police Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log About the Department About the Department Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services HomeAbout the DepartmentBlue Light Services Blue Light Services Blue Light and Emergency Phones There are currently over 950 Blue Light and emergency phones on the Cornell campus. For direct connection to Cornell Police, lift the receiver or press the button. Lost? Having car problems? Want to report a suspicious incident or a medical emergency? Need any other kind of assistance or information immediately? That is what these phones are for. As soon as the connection is activated, the location of the phone is displayed on the Cornell Police switchboard. If a caller does not or cannot speak, an officer is immediately dispatched to the phone site. Note: If calling to report an emergency on a phone at the entrance to a residence hall, push the “on” button and then press 911. Blue Light Virtual Escort Cornell’s pioneering Blue Light program promotes and safeguards personal security and well-being on the Cornell campus, particularly at night. As part of our department’s COVID-19 response, Blue Light Escorts have gone virtual. Connect to your Guardians through the Rave Guardian App for a virtual escort day or night. Blue Light and TCAT Buses Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, TCAT is operating on a reduced schedule. Service, route and schedule information are at tcatbus.com. SHARE Cornell's sexual harassment and assault response and education resources. Mental Health at Cornell A wide range of resources are available to support the mental health and well-being of Cornell University students, staff, and faculty. Silent Witness Program A confidential, secure way to report non-emergency criminal activity. Report a Crime Cornell University Police Department 117 Statler Drive G2 Barton Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-1111 Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University