Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu All News Stories Student Stories Student News Brief Senior project spotlight: Marwah Aman For her capstone project, Aman developed an accessibility device that reconstructs a physical 3D model of the user’s surroundings Press contact April 20, 2021 FacebookTwitterEmailLinkedIn Engineering Design Projects (ES 100), the capstone course at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, challenges seniors to engineer a creative solution to a real-world problem. 3D Tactile Pin Matrix for Autonomously Reconstructing Environments in Realtime Marwah Aman (Marwah Sabrah), S.B. ’21, mechanical engineering Current accessibility tools for people with visual impairment are limited and cost tens of thousands of dollars; research shows that these devices don’t provide users with the information needed to build a spatial cognitive map of their surroundings. In particular, no portable practical technology yet exists to dynamically generate physical 3D models of a user’s surroundings for tactile information. In her project, Aman pioneered a novel tactile pin matrix (TPM) device that autonomously reconstructs a physical 3D model of the user’s surroundings in near real-time. As objects such as cars or people pass by, the device translates that environment into a physical 3D model through the dynamic pins and the user is able to instantly perceive that motion by touching the pins for tactile feedback. The 3D object silhouettes generated by this device give the user information on distance, shape, size, and motion, allowing them to build a spatial cognitive map to reduce anxiety in unfamiliar spaces, improve obstacle avoidance and navigation, and minimize the need to request a guide. The biggest challenge of a project like this is the independent precise actuation of hundreds of densely packed 1 millimeter thick pins, while keeping the device portable and low energy, Aman said. Her design optimizes magnetism and electropermanent magnets to be able to generate any 3D model using 200 pins in less than 250 milliseconds, with 0.5 millimeter precision. The device remains portable at 10x10x14 centimeters and 0.8 kilograms for a 200-pin model. "Pursuing my project in a virtual environment has been an incredible opportunity to practice resilience and ingenuity in addressing complex problems when physical tools and lab access are restricted. For every typical manufacturing process, I had to figure out how to replicate that same quality of engineering design using only tools I had at home," she said. "I learned to conduct large scale analysis and to interface mechanical, electrical, and computer science principles. With the positive feedback I’ve received from dozens of engineers, this device will become my second patent and I’m looking forward to bringing it to market." Press Contact Adam Zewe | 617-496-5878 | azewe@seas.harvard.edu Information Students Prospective Graduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy