Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni The Information School The Information School 370 Mary Gates Hall 206-685-9937 Website Faculty Website informatics@uw.edu The Information School explores the relationship between information, technology and people and prepares leaders who embrace the challenges associated with the way we find, store, manipulate, and share information. Graduates are adept at designing and building information systems, they are concerned with issues such as access, privacy, and usability, and they understand the transformative power of information and technology to improve organizations, society, and our individual lives. The four degree options available are the Bachelor of Science in Informatics, Master of Library and Information Science, Master of Science in Information Management, and PhD in Information Science. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Informatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Biomedical and Health Informatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Data Science Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Human-Computer Interaction Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Information Architecture Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Program of Study: Minor: Informatics Minor in Informatics Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Information Science) Doctor Of Philosophy (Information Science) Program of Study: Master Of Library And Information Science Master Of Library And Information Science Master Of Library And Information Science Master Of Library And Information Science (evening) Master Of Library And Information Science (fee-based) Master Of Library And Information Science (fee-based) (online) Master Of Library and Information Science (Law Librarianship) Master Of Library and Information Science (Law Librarianship) (fee-based) Program of Study: Master Of Science In Information Management Master Of Science In Information Management Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Accelerated Online) (fee based) Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Accelerated Residential) (fee-based) Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Online) (fee based) Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Residential) (fee-based) Master of Science in Information Management (Mid-Career Online) (fee based) Master of Science in Information Management (Mid-Career Residential) (fee based) Program of Study: Master Of Science In Information Science Master Of Science In Information Science Undergraduate Programs The Information School 370 Mary Gates Hall 206-543-1794 iask@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Informatics Program Overview Informatics is the study of people, information, and technology. Students are prepared to design, build, manage, and secure information systems that make a difference in society, organizations, and individual lives. The curriculum uses an experiential learning approach that emphasizes problem solving, group work, research, writing, oral presentations, and technology. Degree options in Biomedical & Health Informatics, Human-Computer Interaction, Information Assurance and Cybersecurity, Data Science, and Information Architecture are available. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Biomedical and Health Informatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Data Science Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Human-Computer Interaction Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Information Architecture Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: INFO 101, INFO 200, an English composition course (selected from the University list), CSE 142, CSE 143, and STAT 221, STAT 311, STAT 390, STAT 293, or Q METH 201; courses that develop strong analytical, qualitative, and quantitative reasoning skills; courses that develop strong written and oral communication skills; courses that provide exposure to a variety of social science fields such as psychology, sociology, anthropology, or philosophy. Admission Requirements Regular Admission INFO 200*; either CSE 142, CSE 143, CSE 154, CSE 160, CSE 163, INFO 180/STAT 180/CSE 180, or INFO 201; either STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, STAT 390, or QMETH 201; with a minimum 2.0 grade in each course. Departmentally approved transfer equivalents may be used to substitute for prerequisite courses. Minimum 2.00 cumulative college GPA. Admission is capacity constrained, based on the following criteria: Overall academic performance Grades in courses required for admission to the major Personal statement reflecting an interest in and commitment to becoming a major in this field Other evidence of interest in and commitment to the field (e.g., work experience, internships). Meeting the above criteria does not guarantee admission. Admission for current upper-division UW students and transfer students occurs twice a year for autumn and winter quarters. The application process begins prior to the admitted quarter. Application deadlines: First Friday of spring quarter for admission the following autumn quarter. First Friday of autumn quarter for admission winter quarter. Students apply online at The Information School website. *Since equivalents to INFO 200 are not common, students who have transferred or will transfer to the UW can apply to the program and be admitted with the provision that they complete INFO 200 with a minimum 2.0 grade before the end of their first year in the program. Freshman Direct Admission Program (FDAP) Designed to recruit top high school students to the program and to the UW. Students who indicate an interest in the Informatics program are automatically considered for FDAP participation upon application to the UW. They are evaluated based on careful review of qualitative and quantitative factors, including high school GPA, SAT scores, personal statement, and any additional information provided in their application file. Students selected for FDAP are involved in the academic and social life of the Information School, participating in courses, activities, and research opportunities as appropriate during their freshman and sophomore years. The number of early admission (FDAP) students does not exceed 10 percent of the number of majors admitted each year. Continuation Policy All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in probation, which can lead to dismissal from the major. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the school website. Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree Credential Overview Informatics is the study of people, information, and technology. Students are prepared to design, build, manage, and secure information systems that make a difference in society, organizations, and individual lives. The curriculum uses an experiential learning approach that emphasizes problem solving, group work, research, writing, oral presentations, and technology. Degree options in Human-Computer Interaction, Information Assurance and Cybersecurity, Data Science, and Information Architecture are available. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements English composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing courses (10 credits) Natural World (20 credits) Individuals & Societies (20 credits) Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (20 credits) Diversity (3 credits) Up to 15 credits of INFO-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirement (Natural World; Individuals & Societies; Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts). Major Requirements 85-92 credits, depending on credential/option Courses required for admission (18-19 credits, as shown above) Core courses (51-53 credits): INFO 201, INFO 290, INFO 300, INFO 330, INFO 340, INFO 350, INFO 360, INFO 380, INFO 490, INFO 491; CSE 143 or CSE 163; one of CSE 373, INFO 442, INFO 443. Additional requirements specified below Additional Completion Requirements 16-20 credits Students work with their adviser to select a minimum of four classes to create a customized program aligned with their personal interests or career goals. Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Biomedical and Health Informatics Credential Overview The Biomedical and Health Informatics option leverages the strengths of the Information School and the Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education (BIME) department of UW Medicine. The option provides cross-training in informatics and healthcare with information technology training in biology, medicine, and health. The degree option provides preparation for pathways towards health IT employment and graduate studies. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements English composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing courses (10 credits) Natural World (20 credits) Individuals & Societies (20 credits) Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (20 credits) Diversity (3 credits) Up to 15 credits of INFO-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirement (Natural World; Individuals & Societies; Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts). Major Requirements 85-92 credits, depending on credential/option Courses required for admission (18-19 credits, as shown above) Core courses (51-53 credits): INFO 201, INFO 290, INFO 300, INFO 330, INFO 340, INFO 350, INFO 360, INFO 380, INFO 490, INFO 491; CSE 143 or CSE 163; one of CSE 373, INFO 442, INFO 443. Additional requirements specified below Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (20 credits): BIME 300, BIME 435, INFO 468, INFO 478 Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Data Science Credential Overview Data science is an emerging interdisciplinary field that works to extract knowledge or insight from data. It combines fields such as information science, computer science, statistics, design, and social science. The data science degree option provides strong preparation for entry-level data science positions or for graduate studies providing more advanced training in data science methods and practices. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements English composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing courses (10 credits) Natural World (20 credits) Individuals & Societies (20 credits) Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (20 credits) Diversity (3 credits) Up to 15 credits of INFO-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirement (Natural World; Individuals & Societies; Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts). Major Requirements 85-92 credits, depending on credential/option Courses required for admission (18-19 credits, as shown above) Core courses (51-53 credits): INFO 201, INFO 290, INFO 300, INFO 330, INFO 340, INFO 350, INFO 360, INFO 380, INFO 490, INFO 491; CSE 143 or CSE 163; one of CSE 373, INFO 442, INFO 443. Additional requirements specified below Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (20 credits): INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 445, INFO 474 Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Human-Computer Interaction Credential Overview The Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) option provides students with the knowledge to make information and computing useful, usable, and accessible to all. The Informatics HCI option allows students to blend technical skills and expertise with a broader perspective on how design and development work impacts users. Courses explore the design, construction, and evaluation of interactive technologies for use by individuals, groups, and organizations, and the social implications of these systems. This work encompasses user interfaces, accessibility concerns, new design techniques and methods for interactive systems and collaboration. Coursework also examines the values implicit in the design and development of technology. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements English composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing courses (10 credits) Natural World (20 credits) Individuals & Societies (20 credits) Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (20 credits) Diversity (3 credits) Up to 15 credits of INFO-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirement (Natural World; Individuals & Societies; Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts). Major Requirements 85-92 credits, depending on credential/option Courses required for admission (18-19 credits, as shown above) Core courses (51-53 credits): INFO 201, INFO 290, INFO 300, INFO 330, INFO 340, INFO 350, INFO 360, INFO 380, INFO 490, INFO 491; CSE 143 or CSE 163; one of CSE 373, INFO 442, INFO 443. Additional requirements specified below Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (16-20 credits): Minimum four courses from an approved list. See department website for list of approved courses Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Information Architecture Credential Overview Information Architecture (IA) is a critical component-- along with User Experience (UX) -- in the development of successful web sites, software apps, intranets, and online communities. Courses in the IA option allow students to develop the skills needed to organize and label information for improved navigation and search, and build frameworks to effectively collect, store and deliver information in conjunction with a strategic UX. Students also gain the knowledge to design the databases and XML storehouses that drive complex and interactive websites. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements English composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing courses (10 credits) Natural World (20 credits) Individuals & Societies (20 credits) Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (20 credits) Diversity (3 credits) Up to 15 credits of INFO-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirement (Natural World; Individuals & Societies; Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts). Major Requirements 85-92 credits, depending on credential/option Courses required for admission (18-19 credits, as shown above) Core courses (51-53 credits): INFO 201, INFO 290, INFO 300, INFO 330, INFO 340, INFO 350, INFO 360, INFO 380, INFO 490, INFO 491; CSE 143 or CSE 163; one of CSE 373, INFO 442, INFO 443. Additional requirements specified below Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (16-20 credits): Minimum four courses from an approved list. See department website for list of approved courses Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Credential Overview Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) is the practice of creating and managing safe and secure systems. It is crucial for organizations public and private, large and small. In the IAC option, you will be equipped with the knowledge to create, deploy, use, and manage systems that preserve individual and organizational privacy and security. This tri-campus concentration leverages the strengths of the Information School, the Computing and Software Systems program at UW Bothell, and the Institute of Technology at UW Tacoma. After a course in the technical, policy, and management foundations of IAC, you may take electives at any campus to learn such specialties as information assurance policy, secure coding, or networking and systems administration. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements English composition (5 credits) Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits) Writing courses (10 credits) Natural World (20 credits) Individuals & Societies (20 credits) Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (20 credits) Diversity (3 credits) Up to 15 credits of INFO-prefix courses from the University Areas of Knowledge list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Knowledge requirement (Natural World; Individuals & Societies; Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts). Major Requirements 85-92 credits, depending on credential/option Courses required for admission (18-19 credits, as shown above) Core courses (51-53 credits): INFO 201, INFO 290, INFO 300, INFO 330, INFO 340, INFO 350, INFO 360, INFO 380, INFO 490, INFO 491; CSE 143 or CSE 163; one of CSE 373, INFO 442, INFO 443. Additional requirements specified below Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (16-20 credits): Foundation Course: INFO 310 or equivalent Minimum three additional courses from an approved list (11-15 credits). Includes courses at participating departments on all three UW campuses. See department website for list of approved courses. No more than one of these three may be a networking course (INFO 341, T INFO 250, or CSS 432). Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Informatics Program Overview Informatics is a high-tech, high-touch field that uses information and technology (computers, the Internet, and devices) to make life better - at work, in society, and to improve our individual lives. Students who complete the Informatics Minor will have strong advantages in completing their education and launching their careers. Students will obtain knowledge of design thinking, how to work with others in teams, gaining insight into the complex technology policy issues of our time, and gain skills in using data and information in problem-solving and decision-making. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Informatics Minor in Informatics Completion Requirements Minimum 25 credits INFO 200, INFO 201 (10 credits) INFO 300-/INFO 400-level courses, providing depth in data, design, or development. Minimum 3 credits covering ethics, policy, and/or equity dimensions of information technology. See department for list of approved courses. (15 credits) Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The informatics program prepares students for a wide range of endeavors in the information field including information management and technology, research and information services, interactive system design, human-computer interaction, and information science. Graduates of the informatics program are qualified for jobs in the information and technology industry and in business, public service, and other professions. Possible job titles include user experience designer, business analyst, consultant, usability engineer, data manager, information architect, web developer, network manager, project manager, and information assurance professional. The program also provides strong preparation for graduate studies. Graduates are successfully placed in prestigious graduate schools and pursue a variety of programs, including information and management science, information science, biomedical informatics, business and accounting, and information technology. Informatics student-learning outcomes include the ability to assess people's information needs and behavior; ability to design information systems to meet people's information needs; ability to work with information technologies (e.g., database, networks, Internet-based, interface design); ability to evaluate the impact of information technologies on people; ability to communicate effectively; ability to manage projects; ability to build working systems; ability to organize and manage information; ability to work effectively individually and as part of a team; and ability to understand the research process and its implication for information systems design and use. All informatics courses are designed to produce these outcomes through a rigorous experiential learning approach that emphasizes group work, research, writing, oral presentations, and technology. Instructional and Research Facilities: Located on the third and fourth floors of Mary Gates Hall, the School offers an extensive software collection, a state-of-the-art computer classroom, an innovative Technology Exploration (TE) laboratory, and excellent network connectivity. Students have access to software applications including titles for database and text management, programming, graphics, multimedia production, web development, Internet exploration and collaboration, and office productivity. Students also have access to a large number of bibliographic databases and commercial information services. The School also has a dedicated information science research facility at the Roosevelt Commons Building. The research space comprises 7,000 square feet of offices, workstations, research labs, and meeting spaces. Honors Options Available: With College Honors; With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). Distinction (Departmental Honors). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Internships are encouraged, but not required. Students participate in a variety of internships, paid and non-paid. A significant number of students also work part-time in Informatics or technology-related positions, and participate in public service. Informatics students are extensively engaged in faculty research and internships. A significant percentage of informatics students participates in the University's Undergraduate Research Symposium each year. Students have co-authored publications with faculty, had their research accepted for presentation at national conference poster sessions, and been recognized with various awards, including the Mary Gates Research Training Endowment for three consecutive years (2001-03). School Scholarships: The Henry Scholarships, in the amount of approximately $1500 each, are awarded to three second-year majors in recognition for academic achievement, leadership, and service to the School and in professional/student activities. Students to be considered for the award are nominated by the Information School faculty and Undergraduate Program Committee members. The merit-based awards, named after the founder of the school and first director, William Henry, are intended to recognize and honor student achievement. Student Organizations/Associations: Undergraduates participate in a number of the School's many student organizations, including the UW Informatics Undergraduate Association (IUGA) and the student chapter of the American Society of Information Scientists and Technology (ASIST). Of Special Note: Capstone Projects: Students often use their capstone projects to identify interest areas, develop skills, and prepare for future pursuits. Through capstone projects, students demonstrate the skills, understanding, and competencies they can successfully use to prepare for employment and graduate studies. Information Sessions: Prospective students are encouraged to attend an Informatics information session. For a schedule of information sessions, visit the School website. Graduate Programs The Information School 370 Mary Gates Hall 206-543-1794 iask@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Information Science) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Information Science) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Information Science) Completion Requirements 90 credits minimum Required courses (24 credits): Core courses: INSC 500, INSC 501, INSC 570, INSC 571, INSC 572, INSC 573 Practica: INSC 565, INSC 566, INSC 575, INSC 576 Additional elective coursework (credits vary, as needed to meet required total): Graduate level coursework, selected in consultation with faculty advisers Dissertation (27 credits): INSC 800 18 graded credits in courses at the 500 level and above (taken prior to general examination) 60 credits taken prior to general examination Preliminary review determined by a School-based advisory committee at the end of the required first year of full-time study General examination Dissertation proposal defense Final examination Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Library And Information Science This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Library And Information Science Master Of Library And Information Science Master Of Library And Information Science (evening) Master Of Library And Information Science (fee-based) Master Of Library And Information Science (fee-based) (online) Master Of Library and Information Science (Law Librarianship) Master Of Library and Information Science (Law Librarianship) (fee-based) Master Of Library And Information Science Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Back to Top Master Of Library And Information Science Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Back to Top Master Of Library And Information Science (evening) Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Back to Top Master Of Library And Information Science (fee-based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires 63 credits. Core Curriculum (31 credits): LIS 510 or LIS 547; LIS 520, LIS 530, LIS 570, LIS 580 One information technology course (course list maintained by department) One social/ethical course (course list maintained by department) Capstone (5 credits): LIS 569; LIS 596 or IMT 596; LIS 597 or IMT 597 Electives (to meet required credit total): LIS, IMT, INSC, INFO coursework at the graduate level. Back to Top Master Of Library And Information Science (fee-based) (online) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires 63 credits. Core Curriculum (31 credits): LIS 510 or LIS 547; LIS 520, LIS 530, LIS 570, LIS 580 One information technology course (course list maintained by department) One social/ethical course (course list maintained by department) Capstone (5 credits): LIS 569; LIS 596 or IMT 596; LIS 597 or IMT 597 Electives (to meet required credit total): LIS, IMT, INSC, INFO coursework at the graduate level. Back to Top Master Of Library and Information Science (Law Librarianship) Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Back to Top Master Of Library and Information Science (Law Librarianship) (fee-based) Credential Overview Designed to prepare lawyers with an existing JD degree to serve as law librarians in courts, federal and state units of government, law schools, corporations, and law firms. Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 43-63 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (credits vary depending on option): LIS coursework. See additional requirements section below for option-specific courses. Additional Option-Specific Requirements: See additional requirements section below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires 43 credits: Core Curriculum (23 credits): LIS 520, LIS 526, LIS 530, LIS 547, LIS 549, LIS 587 Law Librarianship Courses (16 credits): LIS 579, LIS 592, LIS 593, LIS 594, LIS 595. The final degree project is completed as part of LIS 595. Internship (4 credits): directed fieldwork (LIS 590) Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science In Information Management Program Overview A master's in information management can specialize in data science, information security & other areas of expertise. Offered in Early-Career, Early-Career Accelerated and Mid-Career formats, both residential and online. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science In Information Management Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Accelerated Online) (fee based) Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Accelerated Residential) (fee-based) Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Online) (fee based) Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Residential) (fee-based) Master of Science in Information Management (Mid-Career Online) (fee based) Master of Science in Information Management (Mid-Career Residential) (fee based) Master Of Science In Information Management Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Back to Top Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Accelerated Online) (fee based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires a total of 40 credits. In addition to the above requirements, the following are option-specific requirements: Additional Core Curriculum (3 credits): IMT 500 Practicum (6 credits): IMT 599 Back to Top Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Accelerated Residential) (fee-based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires a total of 40 credits. In addition to the above requirements, the following are option-specific requirements: Additional Core Curriculum (3 credits): IMT 500 Practicum (6 credits): IMT 599 Back to Top Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Online) (fee based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires a total of 65 credits. In addition to the above requirements, the following are option-specific requirements: Additional Core Curriculum (3 credits): IMT 500 Capstone (5 credits): IMT 569, IMT 596, IMT 597 Back to Top Master of Science in Information Management (Early-Career Residential) (fee-based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires a total of 65 credits. In addition to the above requirements, the following are option-specific requirements: Additional Core Curriculum (3 credits): IMT 500 Capstone (5 credits): IMT 569, IMT 596, IMT 597 Back to Top Master of Science in Information Management (Mid-Career Online) (fee based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires a total of 36 credits. There are no additional option-specific requirements beyond those outlined above. Back to Top Master of Science in Information Management (Mid-Career Residential) (fee based) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Completion Requirements 36-65 credits, depending on option Core Curriculum (12 credits): IMT 550, IMT 570, IMT 580 Additional Core Curriculum: Some options require an additional core course. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Capstone/Practicum Requirement: Some options require a capstone or practicum. See additional requirements below for option-specific requirement. Electives (to meet required credit total): Students select a specialization specific to their interests and career goals, or choose more broadly from across specializations. LIS, IMT, INSC and INFO graduate level coursework. Course lists maintained by the program. Additional Completion Requirements This option requires a total of 36 credits. There are no additional option-specific requirements beyond those outlined above. Back to Top Additional Information All students in the MSIM program may elect to complete one of the following specializations. Students in the Early-Career option may elect to complete a second specialization from the following: Data Science: Methods, tools, and frameworks for analyzing and deriving insight from large-scale, heterogeneous data. Information Architecture: Assessing existing information structures and creating new systems to effectively structure information. Program/Product Management and Consulting: Developing and managing information policies, strategies, innovations, projects, and initiatives in public, private, and non-profit institutions. . Business Intelligence: Building analytical, managerial and baseline technical skills will help you learn to manage the process of transforming data into information. Information and Cyber Security: Quality, security, and appropriate use of information assets. User Experience: Designing, prototyping, and formally evaluating interactive information interfaces, systems, and experiences from a user-centered perspective. For more information visit https://ischool.uw.edu/academics/msim/curriculum/specializations Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science In Information Science This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Science In Information Science Admission Requirements Admission to this program not available. This degree is only available to students enrolled in the Doctor of Philosophy (Information Science) program. Master Of Science In Information Science Completion Requirements 60 credits Required courses (31 credits): Core courses: INSC 500, INSC 501, INSC 570, INSC 571, INSC 572 Practica: INSC 565, INSC 566, INSC 575, INSC 576 Additional elective coursework (credits vary, as needed to meet required total): Graduate level coursework, selected in consultation with faculty advisers Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA