Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Tuition Scholarships Public Humanities Master's students are eligible for partial tuition scholarships* provided by the Center for Public Humanities. In recent years, most admitted students who request program aid on their applications have been awarded a tuition scholarship equal up to 40% of the tuition cost for the duration of the program. Starting with the 2021 admission of student entering the program in the Fall 2022, tuition scholarship will be determined based on financial need and merit. Students who are requesting financial assistance from the program must complete the FAFSA application facilitated by the Office of Financial Aid. The tuition scholarship award is conditional upon satisfactory academic progress, and students in good academic standing can expect to receive similar support for their second year. Students who require additional support are encouraged to visit the Office of Financial Aid, which can provide information on student loans and leads on sources of funding beyond Brown University. In addition to tuition scholarships, the Center for Public Humanities provides other forms of support for student activities. Conference Funds and Class Trip* Public Humanities M.A. students who entered the program in 2020 were awarded up to $500 award to offset participation expenses in up to two conferences or workshops during enrollment in the program. For students who entered the program in the Fall 2021, the conference funding will be replaced with the funding of the class trip during the 1st year of studies. Students in this cohort who present at a conference and exhausted the available external funding from the Graduate School, can apply for supplemental travel funds from the Center for Public Humanities. All students can apply for the Graduate School Conference Travel Funds and Graduate Student Council Travel Funds. Summer Practicum Funding* The Center has limited funds to offer some financial support to help Public Humanities M.A. students defray the cost of living expenses during the summer practicum. Funding amount will be determined based on financial need (via FAFSA facilitated by the Financial Aid office). *Ph.D. Students who are getting a transitional Master's degree in Public Humanities are not eligible for tuition scholarship, program's conference funds, summer practicum funding, or class trip funding. Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top