Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC ShareIT program gives local students glimpse into their future Hughes High School students tour 1819 Innovation Hub May 19, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Eleven students, along with seven mentors from Hughes High School in Cincinnati, toured the 1819 Innovation Hub, the nerve center of the Cincinnati Innovation District (CID), as part of the University of Cincinnati ShareIT program on May 11. The program is led by Josette Riep, director of information technology at UC who is also the mentoring chair of the UC ShareIT program. Riep was motivated to develop this specialized program six years ago to provide opportunities and pathways for students to overcome obstacles such as not having access to resources like a computer or funds to experiment and learn. Through the UC ShareIT program, which is supported by the Office of Equity, Inclusion and Community impact and IT@UC, students understand what their capabilities and possibilities are for their futures. The program is designed to immerse students and develop their skills in the highly sought-after, competitive fields of digital information technologies. Kroger, a CID partner with an innovation space at the 1819 Innovation Hub, set the wheels in motion by reaching out to the UC Share IT program, which invited the STEM students from Hughes High School to tour the facility. Kroger's partnership with the CID allows them access to students and faculty with the talent, skillsets, and expertise to create innovative solutions for their business needs. Brad Walsh, Makerspace coordinator, speaks with students from Hughes High School in Cincinnati who toured the 1819 Innovation Hub, the nerve center of the Cincinnati Innovation District, as part of the University of Cincinnati ShareIT program. Photo by Diana Lara, UC Office of Innovation Dan Whitacre, senior director of Kroger Labs and Technology, acknowledged the value of Kroger’s partnership with CID, which provides access to talent with highly specialized technical skills. Whitacre shared one of his experiences as a CID partner, which connected him with three electronics media students who worked on his team. Utilizing the insights and talent of these students, Kroger changed the way they communicate within the organization. They used to distribute paper reports and newsletters, but now they put out three-minute videos on what they’re doing with better results. Whitacre added this is one example of the different kinds of ideas that having access to these brilliant students provides to Kroger. Through the CID, Kroger collaborates with Fusion Alliance, which brings new ideas to complement processes that foster the mission of Kroger. Mark Johnson is the vice president of the southwest Ohio regional market and leads strategic data management and analytics for Fusion Alliance. Johnson has firsthand knowledge of the impact exposure to opportunities like this can have on students. He credits an early experience of touring IBM for leading him to a lifelong career in technology and feels a sense of duty to pay it forward. The UC ShareIT program is available to Hughes High School students enrolled in the “Kids to career opportunities” in the IT field. However, the goal is to expand it to other schools in the near future. Students from Hughes High School in Cincinnati spoke about the apps they designed at the 1819 Innovation Hub, the nerve center of the Cincinnati Innovation District, as part of the University of Cincinnati ShareIT program. Photo by Diana Lara, UC Office of Innovation The students toured the Groundspace Makerspace and Kroger Lab as well as the Esports Innovation Lab, an exciting new space for gaming technology within the 1819 Innovation Hub. May 11 marked the last day of the UC ShareIT program for this school year. As part of the program, the students were required to present their year-end project. They worked in teams to create a mobile application. The students impressed the panel of judges as they spoke about the apps they designed along with the pathways to achieve their goals and what it takes to succeed in their chosen IT fields: game design, robotics, cyber security, web development, multimedia, etc. Several graduate students of the UC Share IT program are enrolled in STEM programs at UC, with several others expressing their desire to be accepted to UC when they graduate high school. The day concluded as mentors of the program handed out certificates of completion to the students along with a Cincinnati Innovation District T-shirt. Featured photo at top: Dan Whitacre, senior director of Kroger Labs and Technology, has the attention of interested Hughes High School students. Photo by Gregory Glevicky, UC Office of Innovation Diana M. Lara laradm@ucmail.uc.edu About the Cincinnati Innovation District The Cincinnati Innovation District® is a unique and thriving ecosystem that attracts, produces, retains and develops talent by co-locating and collaborating with organizations. Unveiled in 2020 by Ohio Governor Mike DeWine and Lt. Governor Jon Husted along with JobsOhio and innovation district leadership, the district envelops myriad innovation assets and access to some of the world’s leading academic and research centers, organizations and talent pools. Powered by the University of Cincinnati, the CID includes the world-renowned Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center and other national research centers. The district’s mission is to become a globally recognized talent hub and lead a transformational movement. The combination of industry engagement, unique experiential platforms and accessible research expertise — working at the pace of change — will become a model nationwide. For more information on the Cincinnati Innovation District, visit www.cincyid.com. Tags Office of Innovation Next Lives Here 1819 Innovation Hub Innovation Agenda Related Stories Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top