Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home For Donors Awards Each year, the Iowa State University Foundation recognizes the outstanding contributions of its alumni and friends with the presentation of its highest awards on behalf of the university. Order of the Knoll True and Valiant Award Presented to an individual, couple or family, this award recognizes exceptional service, generosity and outstanding leadership that has helped transform Iowa State University. Recipients bring “big picture” perspectives and are commanding leaders. Recipients Order of the Knoll Campanile Award This award recognizes the extraordinary, long-time support of an individual or couple who have had a significant and inspiring impact on Iowa State. Their loyal and substantial philanthropic support is transformative on campus. Recipients Order of the Knoll Cardinal and Gold Award This award recognizes individuals or couples who have make a substantial impact in promoting and expanding philanthropy that supports Iowa State through their personal giving and service to the foundation. Recipients Order of the Knoll Corporation and Foundation Award This award is presented to a corporation or foundation that has demonstrated generosity to Iowa State through significant leadership giving, dedicated service, and assistance to students and faculty through recruitment and research. Recipients Order of the Knoll Faculty and Staff Award This award recognizes an individual or couple – either currently or formerly – employed by Iowa State who provided service and creative leadership to the foundation and university through the advancement of philanthropy. Recipients Order of the Knoll Emerging Philanthropist Award This award is presented to an individual or couple who, at age 50 or younger, have provided philanthropic support and creative leadership to the foundation and university. Recipients support the university personally and through service. Recipients The Iowa State University Foundation also recognizes its outstanding employees with annual Iowa State University Foundation Governors Staff Awards Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Campanile Award Cardinal and Gold Award Corporation and Foundation Award Faculty and Staff Award Emerging Philanthropist Award Governors Staff Awards True and Valiant Award Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Nomination Forms Forms: Campanile Award Cardinal and Gold Award Corporation, Foundation and Association Award Faculty and Staff Award True and Valiant Award Emerging Philanthropist Award Governors Staff Award Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top