Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links OUC Menu Main Nav OUC Contact Back Back Close People Our Work Overview Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Social Fellows Application Humans of Boston College Humans of BC Nomination Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine For Journalists Overview Policies Names in the News BC Faculty Experts Lisa Sowle Cahill Andrea Vicini, S.J. Shu-Yi Oei Serazio, Michael Samuel Richardson Eric Dearing Richard McGowan S.J. Ray Madoff Jeremy Shakun Mark Bradshaw Mary Ellen Carter James Lubben John Makransky Thomas H. Groome Fishman, Donald Sienkiewicz, Matt Kevin R. Powers Lisa Goodman Noah P. Snyder John E. Ebel Anderson, James E. Grubb, Michael Can Erbil Ireland, Peter Murphy, Robert Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic Ana M. Martínez Alemán James Repetti Diane Ring Natana J. Delong-Bas Michael Pratt Brad Harrington Zine Magubane C. Shawn McGuffey Sharlene Hesse-Biber Charles Derber Summer Sherburne Hawkins Jessica Black Theresa Betancourt Alicia Munnell Hosffman Ospino James W. Morris Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM Richard Gaillardetz Sara Cordes Liane Young Ellen Winner Peter Gray Kay L. Schlozman Robert S. Ross Jonathan Laurence Marc Landy David Hopkins Dennis Hale James Cronin Seth Jacobs Cynthia L. Lyerly Arissa Oh James O'Toole Devin Pendas Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. Heather Cox Richardson Alan Rogers Jane M. Flanagan Pamela J. Grace Alison O. Marshall Colleen Simonelli Patricia A. Tabloski Judith Vessey Catherine Yetter Read Sheila Tucker Mary Cronin John Gallaugher Gerald Kane Franziska Seraphim James Bernauer, S.J. Ruth Langer Robert J. Savage Hwang, Ingu Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Robert Bloom Mark Brodin George D. Brown Michael Cassidy Kent Greenfield Renee Jones Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Patricia McCoy David Olson Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn Francine Sherman Catharine Wells David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Judith Clair John Fisher Henrik Hagtvedt Bradford Hudson Hristina Nikolova Elizabeth Kensinger Eva Garroutte Ann W. Burgess Karen Arnold David Blustein Henry Braun Susan Bruce Marilyn Cochran-Smith Julia DeVoy Maria Estela Brisk Andy Hargreaves Jacqueline Lerner Rebekah Levine Coley Belle Liang Rebecca Lowenhaupt Julie Paquette MacEvoy Katherine McNeill Laura O'Dwyer Mariela Páez Paul Poteat C. Patrick Proctor David Scanlon Dennis Shirley Mary Walsh Richard Kearney Alan L. Kafka Gail C. Kineke Darren Kisgen Jeffrey Pontiff Jonathan Reuter Ronnie Sadka Philip E. Strahan Dean Hashimoto David Twomey Miles, John "Jack" Nadia N. Abuelezam Chahrour, Ryan Jeffrey Cohen Hiba Hafiz Mary Ann Chirba Cal Halvorsen Leonard Kostovetsky Ali Kadivar Steven Koh Rachel Spooner Kirsten Davison Daniel Farbman Landrigan, Philip J. Krupenkin, Masha Juliet Schor Sankaran, Chandini Steinberg, Laura J. Betty Lai Nosal, Jaromir Stephen Shay R. Shep Melnick James Smith Francesco D’Acunto Bethune, Brian Ryan Williams Policies & Guidelines Overview Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Policies & Guidelines Home Policies & Guidelines Policies & Guidelines Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Boston College has developed a graphic identity system and standards policy to be applied to all printed University communications. This policy has been instituted by the Office of the President to establish and maintain a consistent public image for the University that reinforces the mission and vision of Boston College. In addition, University Communications has developed standards and guidelines for web-based and other digital communications, as well an editorial style guide, to serve as resources for departments and divisions across campus. Find answers to some frequently asked questions related to use of Boston College images, video, logos, seals, and more below. + - Access to campus and parking Media representatives must request access to campus in advance by calling the Office of University Communications at (617) 552-3350. OUC will notify the appropriate campus gate attendant of your arrival and direct you to available parking. Boston College video/photography requests Shooting on campus / Use of images or video From time to time, media agencies request the use of a Boston College campus setting for an external video or photography project, or the use of campus photos or images, logos or other identifiable materials (clothing, pennants, publications, etc.) for commercial or entertainment productions. The following guidelines are in effect for such requests: A written letter of intent must be submitted to the Office of University Communications before permission for such use is granted. This letter must include information regarding the requested location, dates, times, length and number of people and vehicles to be involved in the proposed project (if applicable), a list of BC-related materials that will be used, and a detailed description of the project itself and its intended use. If the Office of University Communications approves an on-campus project, the requester must submit a certificate of insurance and appropriate release forms. The shoot will not be allowed to take place unless this material is received in advance of the proposed date. The requester will be required to pay for any Boston College-related materials needed for the project, as well as any overtime or miscellaneous expenses incurred by the University in connection with the shoot. If it is a commercial venture, a daily location fee may be required. Requests for projects that interfere with the University's academic enterprise or student life will not be approved. Due to the number of requests for student projects, the University does not grant location requests that are not directly affiliated with Boston College class assignments. Requesters who wish to use Boston College's name, nicknames, building or unit names when filming, videotaping and/or photographing the University campus for commercial and/or entertainment purposes may do so only with the approval of the Office of the President (to be arranged through the Office of University Communications.) At no other time may Boston College be identified in the finished product. The complete University policy on use of Boston College facilities for filming, videotaping and still photography for commercial and entertainment purposes is available at the Policies and Procedures website. For additional information please contact the Office of University Communications at (617) 552-3350. Access to campus for wedding/engagement photos The University allows wedding photography for alumni on campus during the weekend. This is to ensure that the photo shoot is as minimally intrusive as possible to students, faculty, and staff. Requests for Baldwin at events Boston College's Baldwin is available upon request for parties, business meetings, or special events. Requests can be made through the Boston College Athletcis Department here. Requests for use of the BC Eagles logo The BC Eagles logo was created in 2000. The primary logo features an eagle with an interlocking "BC." The pantone ink colors are maroon 202, gold 4515 and metallic gold 871. If you have questions about any promotion or use of the BC Eagles logo, contact the Sports Marketing office at 617-552-3005 or sprtmrkt@bc.edu. Scoreboard message requests Those interested in commemorating a special occasion (birthday, anniversary, retirement, marriage proposal, etc.) with a personal message on the scoreboard at a BC football, hockey, men's basketball, or women's basketball event can contact Boston College Athletics Marketing & Fan Development by filling out this form. For other questions regrading athletics, contact the BC Athletics Communication Department. Boston College website requests The Office of University Communication has been entrusted with oversight of all public facing websites. Web design and development is done in-house with occasional support from a vendor. If you have questions on the process, please contact Scott Olivieri. Accessibility & Video Captioning Accessibility Boston College is committed to ensuring that all BC web pages are accessible. The Web Technlogy Group within ITS has created detailed documentation, established training classes, and purchased software to assist with the content remediation process. Some recommendations on specific media: Web sites Web content editors are responsible for implementing accessibility best practices. Creating Meaningful Page Titles Using Structurally Correct HTML Elements Providing Alternate Text for Images Using Descriptive Links Adding Adobe Reader Link Adding Word Doc Viewer Link Audio/Video Video files must contain proper subtitles (see below) Audio scripts should be included in videos Ensure accessible media player technology is available Documents MS Word, EPUB and PDF documents should be aligned with standards and created using best practices such as use of headings, proper use of tables, bulleted lists, high contrast fonts and colors and proper conversion between formats. Review ITS documentation on AEM Accessibility Video Captioning Federal Law and Boston College require that any public-facing online video content produced by University faculty or staff must be closed captioned. This includes any videos posted on the Boston College website, BC associated websites, or any associated social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube or Vimeo. In order to meet federal requirements, both pre-recorded and live video streams need to be professionally captioned. Captioning through an auto-captioning system (such as what you'll find on YouTube) does not meet federal guidelines. For more information, please contact MTS or CTE. Boston College Style Guides (Agora Login may be required) Boston College Editorial Styleguide BC websites guide BC web colors Visual and graphic identity Boston College Seal or wordmark FAQs + - When should I use the Boston College wordmark or seal? The Boston College wordmark and seal should appear on all documents produced by the University. The Boston College wordmark should always appear at least on the cover of a brochure or first page of a document. The seal may appear with the wordmark on the cover but if space prohibits its use, or if it would need to be reduced smaller than ¾ of an inch, then it’s permissible to eliminate it from the cover. However, it should be placed on the back cover or last page of a document. Please note: The seal and the name “Boston College” are registered trademarks, and reproduction of the seal alone or together with other elements of the Graphic Identity System is for official Boston College use only, in accordance with the University policy on use of the Boston College indicia. Can I alter the Boston College logo or change the colors? There should be no manipulation of the wordmark or seal, and they should only be produced at full resolution for the highest quality reproduction. The seal should be used no smaller than 3/4 inch in diameter. When treated graphically (not in the document text), the words “Boston College” should appear as a logotype on one or two lines. To maintain the specific relationships between the letters, EPS files of the logotype are available. Do not attempt to recreate them using actual type. The wordmark may only be reproduced in black, white (on a dark background), Pantone 874 gold, Pantone Warm Gray 11, or Pantone 202. The Pantone colors may be mixed from the four process colors: cyan, magenta, yellow, and black (CMYK.) See chart of approved colors and CMYK mixes. The Boston College seal should appear in black, gold (Pantone 874), or full color (4-color process.) Can I create my own logo? It is generally not permissible for any department or office within the University to have or create its own logo. Please consult with us directly when there is a question. Can I use my grant source’s logo on my website and in brochures and letterhead? A grant source’s logo may appear in a document as long as the Boston College wordmark and/or seal is the prominent identity. The grant source’s logo must not be placed adjacent to the wordmark or seal nor should it be as large as the wordmark. The Boston College Seal The Boston College seal is the central logo of the University. It should appear on all documents produced by the University, on either the front or back cover or on both. The seal and the name Boston College are registered trademarks, and reproduction of the seal alone or together with other elements of the graphic identity system are for official Boston College use only, in accordance with the University policy on use of Boston College indicia. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College