Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Student Support & Resources Student Information FIND HELP NEWS & TIPS CAMPUS EVENTS STUDENT STORIES Find help: Academic Support Community & Groups Jobs & Internships Life at CU Health & Wellness Safety Technology Services Tuition & Enrollment Buff Portal For class schedule, grades, registration, financial aid, enrollment dates, holds and student profile settings. Sign-in Buff Portal Canvas For online courses, community courses, instructor communications, and class assignments. Access your classes Buff Advising For undergraduate students to schedule appointments and track communications with their academic advisor. Contact Your Advisor MyCUInfo For student employee (MyLeave, W-2, pay advice) and student instructor (class rosters, class email, web grading). Sign-in MyCUInfo Can't find what you're looking for? The Buff Info Team can help answer questions on a variety of topics related to CU Boulder and connect you with the right resources. Live Chat 303-492-INFO (4636) Send Us a Question Study Space Reservation Students, faculty and staff can use the campus scheduling system, EMS, to book classrooms for studying (up to three hours) or eating (up to 30 minutes). This and other options for finding space on campus are available on the Find Your Study Spot page. Mental Health Resources Counseling and Psychiatric Services offers a variety of mental health support services, including telehealth appointments, workshops and e-Let’s Talk. CAPS will also be offering a COVID workshop series that will cover topics related to COVID-19, including mindfulness, anxiety, coping strategies and quarantine. Student Health Services Consult with a medical professional who can assess your symptoms and risk factors and determine whether you need COVID-19 testing News & Tips Mental Health Is... Finding your break As we approach the middle of the semester, many of us may be experiencing high levels of stress. Spring break can provide us with a chance to practice self-care, find some relief and focus on ourselves. During the month of March make sure you take advantage of upcoming events on finding your break, de-stressing and self-care. Learn more about Finding Your Break CU Boulder Today: Students Looking for a job or internship? Try out these strategies CU student awarded prestigious Udall Scholarship for work in water resources Learn to meditate with CU Boulder’s SKY Club June 11–13 New budget model approved by leadership with implementation to begin July 1 Join CU Night at the Rockies Aug. 12 4 things to know before Memorial Day weekend Read more at CU Boulder Today Support for Spring Semester Health & Wellness Services Academic Support Student Resources Connect and Get Involved Student Events Center for Student Involvement Buff 2 Buff Program Getting Around Campus Campus Map Parking & Transportation Scooters, Bikes & More Key Spring 2022 Dates Tuition Due Date: Feb. 5 Spring Break: Mar. 21 - 25 Last Day of Classes: Apr. 28 Reading Day: Apr. 29 Finals: Apr. 30 - May 5 Commencement: May 5 Tips & Resources Get a time-lapse view of commencement Students: Staying in Boulder this summer? Here are 5 things to do Scholarship charity ride pedals toward 20th anniversary Explore your alumni benefits Read more at CU Boulder Today Campus Events Upcoming Events Residence Hall Events Student Stories Our students have a way of creating their personal journey. Whether leading research projects, finding ways to creatively address social issues or learning to navigate the college experience, there’s no limit to their potential. CU music Buffs among ‘composers and performers to watch’ The Washington Post published an article that listed “22 composers and performers to watch in 2022.” The list of classical musicians included two CU Boulder College of Music students. Architecture student creates clothing company to spread positive message Travis Weis, a third-year architecture major from Denver, created Release The Mind to help spread positivity through clothing that aims to simultaneously support the community and environment. Engineering students study the mechanics of snow Most mechanical engineers will work with materials such as metals, polymers, ceramics and composites during their careers. However, a course taught in CU Boulder's mechanical engineering department asks students to draw inspiration from another material—snow. Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page