Skip to main content COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn how Pitt is building a healthy and resilient community. About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics open search open menu Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Highlights Highlights Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Admissions Your future: Forged by progress. Forged at Pitt. It all comes together here. Change the world as part of the Pitt community. This is the place to be curious, bold, and ambitious. From excellent academic programs to research, internship, and extracurricular opportunities, it’s all right here for you. We’re ready to help you build your path to success at the University of Pittsburgh. admissions.pitt.edu | Apply Now » First-Year Students Our rolling admission policy means there’s no set deadline for applying to Pitt. We review applications and make admissions decisions throughout the year, so it’s to your advantage to apply early. First-Year Admissions Process Financial Aid Transfer Students Navigating all of the steps to transfer to another college can seem daunting. From guaranteed admissions to transfer scholarships, we have options just for transfer students that make the process easier. Explore Transfer Opportunities Graduate & Professional Students Applications for admission to graduate study are managed by Pitt's 14 graduate and professional schools, not by a central admissions office. You'll find details on our school and college websites. Graduate and Professional Schools International Students U.S. News & World Report ranks Pitt as one of the best U.S. schools for international students. More than 3,000 students from over 100 countries study here. International Student Admissions Veteran Students Designated as a Military-Friendly® School, Pitt creates sustainable and meaningful opportunities for the military community. Find resources and opportunities specifically for veterans. Office of Veterans Services Adult Students People return to school for a lot of reasons. Whatever yours is, we’re committed to helping adult learners at Pitt. Find your program and get started on your own terms. College of General Studies Explore the stories of Pitt Expand Tile Margaret Palko Student, Margaret Palko Like most students at Pitt, Margaret gets involved all over campus whether she's helping students connect as a resident assistant or preparing for her future in Information Sciences. More Stories » Expand Tile Sanjeev Shroff Professor, Sanjeev Shroff As an accomplished researcher and distinguished professor, Sangeev believes the best way for students to learn is to be in partnership with their Pitt faculty. More Stories » Expand Tile Brooke Rupert - '02 Alumna: Brooke Rupert - A&S '02 As a federal public defender, Brooke felt Pitt was the perfect place to prepare her for law school, and her internships during her undergraduate studies helped shape her future. More Stories » Expand Tile Lauren Faulk - ’07 Alumna Lauren Faulk - A&S ’07 Lauren is now an Anesthesia Critical Care Fellow at the University of Michigan Health System in Ann Arbor, MI. More Stories » Expand Tile Shawn Ellies Faculty Commander Shawn Ellies Shawn Ellies is the Integrated Security Director and Commander for the Pitt Police. He teaches courses for the Administrative Justice program in the College of General Studies. He has earned a doctorate from Pitt’s Department of Administrative and Policy Studies program in the School of Education. Before joining the Pitt Police in 1997, Commander Ellies served in the United States Army for 23 years. More Stories » Expand Tile Chase Diehl Student Chase Diehl Chase is more than a numbers guy, and he wanted his college career to reflect that. Pitt’s 500+ student organizations give him the freedom to pursue all of his interests, and it was the biggest thing that stood out to him when making his college decision. More Stories » Deep Dive: Pitt Admissions Visit Campus Tuition and Fees Affordability Initatives Pitt Pathfinders Regional Campuses Cool Pittsburgh FINANCIAL AID Make a Pitt education your reality The University of Pittsburgh admits students with academic and personal promise without consideration of ability to pay. Working together with families, we find ways to help make a Pitt education a reality. Learn which Pitt financial aid options are right for you. Student Life 600+ Student Organizations Student organizations play a major role in our active and vibrant campus community. Our Student Organization Resource Center is here to ensure that our 600+ student organizations have the support they need to operate at the highest level. CAMPUS HOUSING Explore Campus Housing Options From residence halls to apartment-style living, Pitt offers a wide range of housing types to suit your lifestyle. Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube