Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'V': VA Education Benefits Information The Office of the Registrar, Veteran Services division, is ready to assist active duty service members, veterans, and their eligible dependents and spouses in obtaining their educational benefits and act as a liaison to the regional VA office to process enrollment certifications. Vending Services VETS (Veteran Educational and Transition Services) VETS (Veteran Educational and Transition Services) is on a mission to promote the academic success of veterans at Baylor University. All Baylor students who are veterans are eligible for the free benefits offered through the VETS Center. Vice Provost for Research The Office of the Vice Provost for Research aids faculty members from all academic units in identifying, obtaining and managing the funding needed to support their research and scholarship. Internal "seed" funding, matching grant proposal funding, searchable on-line funding databases, grant writing seminars, proposal support and travel awards to national funding agencies are only a few of the services provided to the faculty by the Office of the Vice Provost for Research. Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness The Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness reports directly to the Provost. The office collaborates with senior administration and faculty to coordinate and provide a common vision for undergraduate education at Baylor. Virtual Orientation Orientation is a time to get to know Baylor even better and begin to discover your place in our community of commitment and care. Volleyball Camps We want to offer the best volleyball camp experience ever where all campers feel excited, welcomed, comfortable, challenged and invited into the family that is Baylor volleyball even if it's only for a few days. The campers will have fun by learning, playing and growing both as a player and as a person because our goal is that our staff, court coaches and counselors can impart more than just volleyball knowledge but also impact and inspire each camper. Voting Information/Voter Registration Eligible Baylor community members are strongly encouraged to check their registration status, register to vote and participate in the upcoming elections to make their voice heard. Via this page, you will find resources for students who wish to vote in upcoming elections. VPN Virtual Private Network (VPN) is provided by ITS as a convenient and secure way to access certain Baylor systems, such as Banner, TRAX, BearQuest, and Kahlix from off campus. VPN is available for faculty, staff, and students (with a faculty sponsor). Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'V': Vardaman,Elizabeth Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678