Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Morrissey College Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Arts Council Menu Main Nav Arts Council Arts Council Back Back Close About Overview Contact History News & Notes Arts Council Awards Alumni Arts Circle Events and Initiatives Overview Arts Festival Arts Festival 2020 Exhibition: Out of the Studios Salmanowitz Social Justice Film Screenings Fairy Tales for Free Literary Arts Arts and Social Justice Careers in the Arts Gallery 203 Student Arts Coalition Week of Dance Get Involved Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Arts at Boston College The mission of the Boston College Arts Council is to encourage advocacy, enhancement, and visibility for the arts. Whether it is reflecting upon the impact of the arts in the lecture halls and museums, or participating in the very act of creation in our rehearsal rooms, studios and stages, artistic activities exercise the critical and aesthetic thought processes that we value so highly in our students. These artistic pursuits are essential to the formation of the whole person and fundamental to a dynamic university environment. Arts & Culture Arts Council Arts Festival Gallery 203 News & Notes News & Notes All Announcements Events Research In the media Awards MORE NEWS & NOTES Departments & Programs Art, Art History, and Film Offering undergraduate programs in Art History, Film Studies, and Studio Art, the Art Department curriculum is informed by the research and practice of faculty abreast of evolving ideas in three disciplines. Art Department Bands Boston College Bands The BC Bands is made up of five ensembles: BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble, they Symphonic Band, University Wind Ensemble, The "Screaming Eagles" Marching Band, and the Pep Band. Bands Program Creative Writing Literature explores many of the enduring questions we confront as we grapple with our world. At the same time, it emboldens our capacity to re-imagine that world. English Department Documentary Film The Jacques Salmanowitz Program for Moral Courage in Film is devoted to encouraging the production of film concerned with acts of moral courage, providing role models for youth worldwide. The program serves as a resource for student filmmakers across the disciplines who wish to create documentaries that will inspire future generations. Salmanowitz Program Museum As a teaching museum in a research university, the McMullen remains committed to the highest standards of scholarship and installation and to contributing to the evolution of ideas informed by works of art and material culture. McMullen Museum Music The Music Department rises to the challenge of educating the whole person. Our programs, both curricular and extra-curricular, are carefully designed to engage the intellectual, emotional, physical and spiritual faculties of our students, the College family, and the wider community. Music Department Robsham Theater In harmony with the Jesuit, Catholic tradition of Boston College, the Robsham Theater instructs and guides students in the presentation and expression of their art, cultures, and ideas to a broad audience. Robsham Theater Theatre A community of students, faculty, and staff who are committed to theatre education that combines scholarship and art. We seek to understand theatre not only as a means of artistic expression and a form of entertainment but, as a window onto history, a method of inquiry into all things human, and a vehicle for social change. Theatre Department At Boston College, the arts inspire reflection and spark creativity. Through visual, musical, and physical art activities on and off-campus, you’ll find many opportunities to think in new ways and connect to others in a dynamic environment. Where does one even start? The Arts Council is here to help you connect to everything our campus and community has to offer. Join our email list and start experiencing the arts at Boston College. Sign up Events & Initiatives Arts Festival An annual event sponsored by the Arts Council to bring the Boston College and surrounding communities together to celebrate the arts. Explore involvement opportunities ART & SOCIAL JUSTICE INITIATIVE Programs that actively engage the arts in collaborative work across campus with a mission for humanitarian and justice issues. Current program: Prison Arts Outreach Submit an application and get involved CAREER Week in THE ARTS + ENTERTAINMENT A week for students from all majors to network with alumni who have successfully forged careers in all areas of the arts and entertainment. Learn more and Connect with alumni GALLERY 203 The gallery located in Carney Hall aims to promote student expression and exposure of the visual arts across campus. All Boston College students, clubs, faculty, and staff are welcome to share their artistic work with the community. view exhibitions and Request a show STUDENT ARTS COALITION The coalition advocates for the arts by acting as arts ambassadors and further encourages participation and artistic formation across campus. Join and Advocate for the Arts WEEK OF DANCE This week is packed with dance workshops run by students from dance groups and university faculty, and culminates in two nights of performances. Contact the Robsham Theater Arts Center Follow Us Back To Top Back To Top Arts Council Office of the Arts Council Rubenstein Hall, Office 4 617-552-6500 arts@bc.edu Facebook Instagram Subscribe Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College