Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Physics PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Physics PhD Apply Request More Info Physics PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Physics PhD Gain intensive training in the field of physics and experience in an area of current physics research with the Physics PhD from Temple's College of Science and Technology. Doctoral students work closely with faculty members on research in areas including atomic, molecular and optical physics; condensed matter physics; statistical mechanics and theoretical and experimental elementary particle physics. During the course of the program, students explore an original and significant research contribution, developed and ultimately presented in a final dissertation. Learn more about Physics faculty members and their research interests. The Physics Department is situated in the state-of-the-art Science Education and Research Center (SERC) on Temple’s Main Campus. SERC contains research and teaching labs, open spaces to encourage collaboration, and technical equipment such as clean rooms and a low-vibration scanning tunneling microscope facility. Explore SERC and research facilities for Physics graduate students. Classes & Curriculum The Physics PhD program focuses on independent research, but also requires substantial coursework. Doctoral students complete 45 credits past the baccalaureate degree. Required courses include Advanced Quantum Mechanics, Elementary Particle Physics, Physics Research and Ethics, Practicum Teaching of Physics (for teaching assistants only), and Solid State Physics. Learn more about required and elective courses for the Physics PhD. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. The faculty contact for the Physics Department is Xifan Wu. Phone: 215-204-7637 Email: xifan.wu@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers, and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Physics degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Society of Physics Students, which builds a growing community of students interested in physics through conversations with faculty and volunteer opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Abroad If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-PHYS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Physics PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info