Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Financial Aid Scholarships and Assistance Scholarships and Assistance Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Academic Scholarships SMU academic scholarships have been named among the best in the U.S. by The Student Guide to America’s Best College Scholarships. You will be considered automatically for these scholarships when you apply for admission. SMU has specific scholarships available for National Merit Scholars, International Baccalaureate Diploma candidates and many other scholarships for our top applicants. Additionally, Dedman College, Cox School of Business, Lyle School of Engineering, Meadows School of the Arts and Simmons School of Education and Human Development offer scholarships to selected students who express an interest in a major in those schools. The President’s Scholars Program President’s Scholarships are awarded to students who have shown exemplary academic skills, and is SMU's most prestigious merit-based scholarship. The award is full tuition and fees plus study abroad. Students who live on campus also receive a scholarship for room and board. For consideration, students must have exceptional achievement on the SAT or ACT and in their high school curriculum. The Nancy Ann and Ray L. Hunt Leadership Scholars Program Hunt Leadership Scholarships are awarded to students with extraordinary leadership qualities and strong academic performance. Students selected as Hunt Leadership Scholars for the Class of 2026 will receive an annual Hunt Scholarship of $46,000, or a total of $184,000 over four years. The award also includes airfare and tuition costs for any courses during an international, leadership-based experience immediately following each scholar's sophomore year. An additional essay is required. Click here to complete the online Hunt Leadership Scholars Application. Provost Scholarship, SMU Distinguished Scholarship, Second Century Scholarship, University Scholarship The Provost Scholarship, SMU Distinguished Scholarship, Second Century Scholarship and the University Scholarship are awarded to those students who have demonstrated outstanding academic success throughout high school – most importantly by presenting a combination of high school grades and standardized test scores that together place them among the top students applying to SMU each year. Students selected as a Provost, SMU Distinguished, Second Century or University Scholar are recognized as potential leaders in the classroom at SMU. This designation is based on information submitted in the application for admission and may be updated by sending additional SAT or ACT scores directly from The College Board or ACT, Inc. respectively. These scholarship offers are typically included in a student’s admission packet. International Baccalaureate (IB) Scholars Students who complete the IB Diploma Program will receive a $7,500 per academic year scholarship. This scholarship may be combined with other scholarship or grant aid from SMU, but in no case can the combination of institutional aid exceed Tuition and Fees for that academic year. Learn more about academic scholarships. Need-based Assistance Learn more about the financial aid process at SMU. Your financial situation is unique, so we offer a variety of options to meet your needs. These include SMU Opportunity Awards as well as state and federal sources of financial assistance, depending on financial need and residency. An undergraduate’s average need-based loan amount is $4,640 annually. Start Your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) For U.S. and dual citizens and permanent residents to be eligible for federal and state sources of aid, the first step is to submit the FAFSA. You must complete a FAFSA each year for continued consideration for state and federal financial aid. List SMU as your school of choice on the FAFSA. SMU’s school code is 003613. Submit your FAFSA by January 15 for priority consideration for need-based awards. Start Your College Scholarship Service CSS Profile™ For SMU-funded aid, you also must submit a CSS Profile™ financial aid application to the College Board. This application will give our financial aid advisors more information to further determine your eligibility for university need-based aid. List SMU as your school of choice on the CSS Profile™, and use the code 6660. There is a $25 cost for completing the CSS Profile™. Submit your CSS Profile™ by January 15 for priority consideration for need-based awards. Grants and loans Grants and loans that may be a part of your SMU financial package include: Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) TEXAS Tuition Equalization Grant (TEG) Federal Subsidized Stafford Loan Federal Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan SMU Need-Based Grant Off-campus scholarships If an adjustment to a need-based financial aid package is necessary, the outside scholarship will be used first to replace a student's earnings expectation, Federal Work Study and Subsidized Stafford loans before reducing SMU need-based assistance. All outside scholarships will be split 50/50 between fall and spring semester unless otherwise instructed by the donor/foundation. If you are receiving some form of outside scholarship, download the Outside Scholarship Form (PDF) and submit it to the Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships. Student employment National studies show that college students who work part time benefit financially, sharpen their time management skills and are more likely to remain in school. SMU student employees are paid biweekly, and earnings are not applied to University invoice costs. Work options at SMU include: Federal Work-Study Program employment On-campus employment Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search