Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Search Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Discounts There are lots of benefits that come along with being a University of Miami alumnus, including a variety of discounts. Take a look at educational, corporate, campus and other discounts available exclusively for UM alumni. Corporate Discounts Our corporate partners offer alumni various discounts and services. Learn more Campus Discounts The U provides ’Canes various amenities and discounts across campus. Learn more Educational Discounts Whether on campus or online, continue learning at the U. Learn more Hurricane Sports Exclusive alumni pricing for Hurricanes Football and/or Hurricanes Basketball tickets. Learn more Virtual Campus Store Get ’Canes apparel and gifts at a discount through our digital catalog. Learn more ’Cane Biz ’Canes receive discounts at alumni-owned and operated businesses. Learn more UM Sport Coat Show your ’Cane pride with a custom-made classic UM sports jacket. Learn more UM License Plate When you purchase the U plate, you showcase your love for the University and support students! Learn more Online Services Alumni have access to a variety of services online, including discounts, news, career tools, and networking, and much more. UMiami App for Alumni Keep the U on your phone – download the free alumni app! Learn more Email for Life Alumni receive an email address that lets you be @miami.edu for life! Learn more Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Online and on-demand certificate programs that have been hand-picked for you. Learn more Career Corner Access online resources and explore industry articles, resume prep, and career fairs/events. Learn more ULearn Explore free master lectures, podcasts, past events, and online courses. Learn more Richter Library: Virtual Access The Richter Library’s resources are available online and in person. Learn more Alumni Card The Alumni Card is your official alumni ID, providing you with access to special discounts and offers. Learn more Registrar Services Order your transcripts online and request verification of enrollment/degree. Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2872 305-284-2872 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices