Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries School Psychology PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs School Psychology PhD Apply Visit Request More Info School Psychology PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Our Faculty Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid School Psychology PhD Research student learning processes and development with the School Psychology PhD in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. Gain the skills to support students academically, emotionally and socially. Sharpen your clinical and research skills while preparing to overcome obstacles and lead the evolution of the profession. Graduates often seek out faculty positions, pursue licensure as psychologists, and work in a variety of clinical or research settings. You will be eligible for certification as a school psychologist in Pennsylvania and New Jersey through this comprehensive degree. The program follows a scientist-practitioner model, which emphasizes that a thorough theoretical understanding of the science of psychology is needed to master practical competencies in the field. As a doctoral student, you’ll partner with faculty mentors to embark on research studies, co-author articles and present at conferences. Temple’s School Psychology PhD provides a diverse, inclusive learning environment with a focus on social justice. The program is committed to serving underserved and marginalized populations in the community. Temple’s urban environment provides a multitude of hands-on learning opportunities for students within diverse populations. The program’s emphasis on intellectual, academic, social-emotional and systems-level assessment makes graduates highly in demand as professionals. You’ll take both daytime and evening classes and complete one year of full-time residency as part of the program. You’ll have the opportunity to tailor your studies with a concentration on Applied Behavior Analysis. To complete the PhD program requirements and the requirements for PDE certification as a School Psychologist (PK-12), students must complete 93-96 credits of post-baccalaureate required coursework. Students who are pursuing board certification in Pennsylvania as a behavioral analyst (BCBA) should elect to complete the additional 12 credits of coursework in the optional concentration in Applied Behavior Analysis. Students who elect not to pursue BCBA board certification must follow the general track and complete an additional 6 credits of approved electives to complete the PhD program requirements. Concentrations You can focus on School Psychology or you can take one of the following concentrations. Applied Behavior Analysis Discover in-depth strategies and develop doctorate-level skills necessary for the highest level credentialing opportunities in Applied Behavior Analysis. Students will prepare to meet Pennsylvania’s educational requirements for board certification as behavioral analysts. Learn more about student admissions, outcomes and other program data. Certification and Licensure After completing an internship and passing the exams required by the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, students may become nationally certified school psychologists. Students may become certified school psychologists in Pennsylvania; after completing required exams and postdoctoral supervision, they may be eligible to obtain state licensure as psychologists. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. Doctor of Philosophy students can join the Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development, which runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. Student Association of School Psychologists, a student organization that plans social hours and organizes volunteer opportunities for students. They also co-sponsor a yearly school psychology conference with the School District of Philadelphia and with the Association of School Psychologists in Pennsylvania. This event attracts school psychologists and mental health professionals from all over the region. Past speakers have included Laurence Steinberg, Marsha Levick and MK Asante. Program Contact Jessica Reinhardt, associate professor of practice, is the faculty program coordinator for the School Psychology EdS program. Email: reinhardt@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Accreditation The School Psychology PhD is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA) and is approved by the National Association of School Psychologists. Questions related to the program’s APA accreditation status should be directed to APA’s commission on accreditation. Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 1st St. NE, Washington, DC 20002 (202) 336-5979 apaaccred@apa.org apa.org/ed/accreditation Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-SCPS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in School Psychology PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Our Faculty Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info