COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News January 24, 2022InnovationEntrepreneurshipstudentsCollege of Engineering Six Wichita State teams advance in Koch Innovation Challenge By Strategic Communications Six Wichita State University teams were selected as semi-finalists in the university’s sixth annual Koch Innovation Challenge Angel Round on Dec. 3. Those six teams of Wichita State students advance to the Grand Champion competition in May. Each team is given $500 in investment capital to use for prototyping materials during the second semester, and each student is awarded a $1,000 Koch Innovation Challenge scholarship. A faculty innovation mentor will work with the teams as they pursue their big-idea venture. The members of the Grand Champion Team will be awarded a travel grant to attend the Collegiate Entrepreneurs' Organization Conference during their third semester, and they will compete there in the elevator pitch competition. The Koch Innovation Challenge, sponsored by Koch Industries, is an annual competition that supports the College of Engineering in fostering a culture of creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship, and teamwork among students. The College of Engineering organizes the Koch Innovation Challenge from its Introduction to Technology & Innovation Freshman Seminar general education course, which includes students from all majors across campus. The goal is to prepare students to become real world-ready graduates with an entrepreneurial mindset. Powerhouse Box earned the 2021 Grand Champion Team honor with a low-cost, highly durable, and portable solar power bank solution for remote areas and campgrounds. Other Grand Champion ventures from past years include a magnetic device to make pulling wires through walls easier for homeowners and professional A/V installers, a mechanical device to gauge water temperature for the visually impaired, and a bottom-loaded trash can that simplifies the process of removing the bag. Teams moving to the Grand Champion Competition Everwhen, a parking assistant app to help drivers quickly locate an open parking spot on campus. Team members: Carly Overacker, Grant Johnson and Jon Colamedici. ELEMENT, a remote-controlled defroster shield to easily remove ice from windshields. Team members: Dylen Trecek, Nehme El Ters, Warren Balthazor and Wesley Horner. Spoon Savor, a cooking tool to reduce messes in the kitchen. Team members: Claudia Diaz, Cooper Larsen, Izzy Panakos and Madelyn Stilwell. Open Color, a wearable camera that turns color into sounds for the visually impaired. Team members: Mason Garten, Noah Carter, Kobe Simmons and Wiley Hutcheson. Safe Heater, a battery powered portable heat source for cold-weather camping. Team members: Drake Mann and Noah Osborne. Dual-Shock Wallet, a convenient wallet for multiple ID cards and RFID key fobs. Team members: Adam Key, Ben Taxdahl, Ridge Estes and Craig Belto. Koch Innovation Challenge The Koch Innovation Challenge, sponsored by Koch Industries, is an annual competition that will support the WSU College of Engineering in fostering a culture of creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship, and teamwork among students. Learn more about the Koch Innovation Challenge. Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©