Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form Cornell Institute of Biotechnology Commercialization (CAT) Home About Us Leadership People Faculty Advisory Boards Spotlights Organization Our History Contact Us Core Facilities (BRC) Services Applications Instruments Facilities Commercialization (CAT) CAT Grants Awarded Projects Success Stories NYS companies: Why partner with Cornell? Educational events Other Cornell Resources Affiliated Programs Breeding Insight Buckler Lab Cornell Visualization and Imaging Partnership McGovern Center TREx Engaged Biotech Biotechnology Development Program Funding Opportunities Internships at NYS companies Science Programs Sponsorship Commercialization (CAT) CAT Grants Awarded Projects Success Stories NYS companies: Why partner with Cornell? Educational events Other Cornell Resources Commercialization (CAT) What is the CAT? Centers for Advanced Technology (CATs) are part of the Empire State Development Division of Science, Technology & Innovation (NYSTAR), a program funded by New York State (NYS) through the Economic State Development division. The CATs provide funding and support for partnerships between university researchers and New York State companies that leads to novel high-tech products. There are 15 designated CATs in NYS. The Cornell CAT The Cornell Institute of Biotechnology houses a CAT formally known as the Center for Life Science Enterprise, and referred to simply as the Cornell CAT. The Cornell CAT focuses on the field of life sciences. Its mission is to support academic-New York State industry collaborations to develop life science technologies products aimed for the market. To learn about CAT-supported technology fields, visit the NYSTAR website. What we offer Funding through CAT grants Instruction on writing a successful CAT grant application Workshops focused on entrepreneurship in the life sciences Tailored guidance to help you find a commercial partner Connections with business mentors and market information Office hours to answer your questions. Don't hesitate to email us if you have a question. We are here to help you succeed! Spotlights All spotlights » Cornell Visualization and Imaging Partnership (CVIP) CAT Grant Call for Proposals Breeding Insight: Easing Genomic Selection for more Plant and Animal Breeders Epigenomics and Bioinformatics Facilities Advance Visualization and Sharing of Life Science Data Sets Terms of service Privacy Policy Data retention policy Data return time Acknowledgments in publications Authorship Payment options and billing policies Creating an Account to Access BRC Services Visitor Information Login Cornell Account Rep Login Customer Login Contact Ask Us Anything About Your Needs or Projects Contact for Billing and Invoices Join our mailing list Job openings Address Cornell Institute of Biotechnology 130 Biotechnology Building Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Email us If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.