Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Accommodations Disabled Guests Disabled Graduates Hearing Impaired Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Accommodations Disabled Guests parking and seating information A specially designated drop-off location for disabled patrons is located on the north side of FedExForum, off the Beale Street alley which can be reached by turning eastbound off Third Street, which runs one-way north. Parking for guests with disabilities is available in the FedEx Forum parking garage, and the Linden Avenue marshalling area. All vehicles must have a current state-issued hang tag or license plate. Handicapped Services, including wheelchairs, can be obtained through the FedEx Forum Customer Service Department or by visiting the Commencement table, both located in the Grand Lobby. Elevators are available. Seating for hard of hearing is reserved in seating section 115. An interpreter for the deaf is present at all ceremonies. The first row is reserved and only one guest is permitted to sit with the guest in this row. Security Checkpoint at FedExForum Walk-through magnetometers were installed at FedExForum under the premise of being used at all Memphis Grizzlies games, as per an NBA mandate conceptualized this summer during league security meetings. The magnetometers have become an industry standard across MLB, NHL and NFL venues and their use will now be mandatory for every FedExForum event in order to improve fan safety and guest experience, a shared goal between FedExForum, the University of Memphis and touring production companies. To ensure your Commencement ceremony is enjoyable for you and your guests, please note the following: • Guests are advised to bring ONLY necessary items to the FedExForum during events, concerts and games. • Separate express lanes will be available for guests in the Grand Lobby without bags to be inspected. • Guests will not need to remove their hats, shoes, belts, watches or jewelry as with airport security. Instead, guests will have to place their cell phones, cameras and keys on a security table prior to walking through the metal detector. • Expectant mothers, those with pacemakers and ADA guests are not subject to the magnetometers and will instead be screened through handheld devices." Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.