Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Postdoctoral and Residency Programs > Prosthodontics Program DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs FAQs Advanced Education in General Dentistry Program Endodontics Program General Practice Residency Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology Residency Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/MD Residency Orthodontics Program Pediatric Dentistry Residency Periodontics Program Prosthodontics Program Admissions Information Student Resources Postdoctoral Application Fee Postdoctoral Tuition & Fees Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars MS Degree or Certificate in Prosthodontics Dr. Nurit Bittner Program Director PASS Yes Application Deadline September 1 Program Start Date July 1 Number of Positions 4 Length of Program 3 years Apply to the Prosthodontics Program The postdoctoral Prosthodontics Program prepares the licensed dentist to practice the specialty of prosthodontics in private practice, academia, or a combination of the two. The three-year course of study covers advanced theory and practice of prosthodontics (including course work in complete and removable prosthodontics, fixed prosthodontics, implant prosthodontics, and maxillofacial prosthetics), as well as the basic and applied sciences. Our program also provides clinical and didactic training in implant surgery. Although it is strongly geared towards clinical dentistry - with an emphasis on diagnosis, treatment planning, and therapeutic application - the program also has a research component and opportunities to assist in the instruction of undergraduate dental students. The program leads to an MS degree in prosthodontics and is approved by the Commission on Dental Accreditation. An important asset of the program is its close collaboration with all of the other postgraduate dental specialty programs. This integration is achieved through interdisciplinary seminars, coordinated treatment planning, and team treatment. Another considerable strength of the program is the diversity and quality of our faculty members, many of whom occupy leadership roles in local, regional, and national Prosthodontic organizations. Many of our faculty members are renowned lecturers and a number are recognized for publishing numerous important articles and texts in the dental literature. Emphasis is placed, throughout the three years, on preparation for the American Board of Prosthodontics certification exam. All third year Students are required to take Part 1 of the Board exam prior to graduation. Our graduates are encouraged to challenge the Board, taking the remaining parts subsequent to completing their speciality training. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top