Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Students Student Opportunities Current: Student Advisory Boards Student Advisory Boards Undergraduate Student Advisory Board The mission of the College of Education Undergraduate Student Advisory Board (USAB) is to advance the College of Education by promoting the welfare of the student body, to enhance relationships between students and faculty, and to serve as ambassadors of the College of Education. Purpose and Structure Purpose / Function Meet with Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs at least once a semester Actively serve on a USAB subcommittee Help organize and participate in College of Education recruitment events Serve as ambassadors to the college especially to prospective students Help organize education speakers from within and outside the College of Education Organize a mentoring program for new students Help develop a system to keep alumni connected to the College of Education Identify new initiates needed to recruit new students and to engage current students in the College of Education Structure The Undergraduate Student Advisory Board will consist of a minimum of the following: Two Early Childhood Two Elementary – Math/Science Two Elementary – Language/Culture/Diversity Two Special Education Two Science Two Math Two English Two Social Studies Once new members are appointment each November, the board will select a chair and co-chairs to lead each of the subcommittees. Membership and Term Membership Members must be enthusiastic about the College and willing to share their commitment with others. Members should be interested in governance. The USAB will consist of a diverse group of education majors, each bringing a unique perspective to the board. To apply, please complete a short application. Term USAB members must serve for one year and may serve for up to two years. Terms will run November to December to allow incoming members to overlap with outgoing members. The application window opens up each September. Applications are reviewed by current USAB members and program faculty. Members Jillian Broyles Major: Secondary Education and History Major with a Psychology Minor Hometown: Summerville, SC Position: President Background: Hi everyone! I'm serving as our president this year and I am so pumped to see what we accomplish! In my free time I like to go on walks and take care of my plants! Fun fact: I enjoy water skiing in the summer! Why I want to teach: I want to teach Social Studies to change the narrative and stigmas surrounding the subject and allow students to learn history through many different points of view. History is too often a dreaded subject for students, and I want to make it enjoyable for them! Goals & Aspirations: After graduation, I plan on continuing to grad school to pursue a masters in History. I want to explore different places and institutions before I settle down in one spot. Cameron Boyce Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Greenville SC Position: Vice President/Secretary Background: Hi! My name is Cameron Boyce and I'm a junior Elementary Education major from Greenville, South Carolina. On campus I'm a member of the Honors College, participate in Greek life, and serve as Co-Chair of Outreach for the Homeless Period Project. I have also been a Fraternity and Sorority Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Ambassador as well as a volunteer for ClemsonLIFE. I am so excited to serve the board as Vice President and look forward to a wonderful school year. Why I want to teach: The main reason I got into teaching was because I wanted to make a difference in children's lives the way my teachers had. There are many teachers in my family, and their influence along with a very supportive school system made me want to go into education. I now look forward to serving as an educator in a different capacity as a future speech therapist. I love how communication ties into how children relate to each other and the world around them. I look forward to serving my future students/patients and building personal relationships with them. Goals & Aspirations: I plan to graduate with Honors in May of 2023 with the goal of pursuing my Masters in Speech Language Pathology. I plan to live in South Carolina after I graduate, most likely in the Charleston area. I can't wait to see which school district I end up in and the students I will be fortunate enough to work with. Holliane Belford Major: Secondary Education and English Hometown: Greer, SC Background: Hey y’all! My name is Holliane Belford and I am a Secondary English Education major. I decided to come to Clemson because I loved the atmosphere, and the College of Education seemed like a great program where I could blossom as a future educator. Along with being a member of USAB, I am part of Clemson’s first cohort of South Carolina Teaching Fellows, FIRST for first-generation college students, Clemson Hope, and I work as a coordinator for Clemson’s America Reads program. In my free time, I love to paint, read, and hang out with my friends. Why I want to teach: I decided to become a teacher during my senior year of high school when I took Teacher Cadet. Through the Teacher Cadet program, I was able to work in a 5th grade inclusion classroom and it was always the highlight of my day to be able to watch the students grow in their knowledge. I had been debating between pursuing a career in education or nursing, but those memories and bonds I formed with the 5th graders really solidified for me in my mind what I was called to do in my life. While I loved the time I got to spend working in the elementary school, I want to teach high school so that I am able to help build up my students to be successful adults in society and I can prepare them for whatever lies ahead in their lives after graduation. While I know not all of my future students will love English as much as I do, I hope to help them to find a new appreciation for literature and push them to be able to succeed in my class. Goals & Aspirations: After I graduate with my Bachelor’s degree, I hope to be accepted into Clemson’s Teacher Residency program and earn my Master’s degree. After I have pursued my own educational goals, I want to teach high school English somewhere in South Carolina. I’d love to get to work with inclusion students and/or students from lower-income backgrounds. Maggie Bell Major: Special Education Hometown: Raleigh, NC Background: Involvement: VP-Events & Programming for Kappa Delta, Group Fitness Instructor for Campus Recreation, Photographer for The Tiger newspaper Why I want to teach: My passion for education started in middle school through my history teacher who made me excited to learn every day. Her passion and energy was infectious, and I want to have that same impact on kids I work with in the future. Goals & Aspirations: I want to attend graduate school to pursue my masters in speech-language pathology. My brother had an auditory processing disorder as a child, so my goal is to help kids like him be successful. I would love to work in a school system as an SLP in the future. Natalie Blatner Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Summerville, SC Background: I am the communications director for Clemson Hope, I am a Pi Chi, and I love the beach and hiking! Why I want to teach: Ever since the first grade I knew that I wanted to be a teacher. My first grade teacher was such a positive influence in my life and I want to be that person to my future students! Every time I step foot into a classroom, I fall in love with the profession all over again. I can’t wait to have a classroom of my own someday! Goals & Aspirations: After graduation my plan is to teach for a couple of years in Greenville! After that, I want to teach in different states and travel. I would love to teach either second or third grade! Reece Bostic Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Aiken, SC Background: Hey everyone! My name is Reece Bostic and I am an elementary education major from Aiken, SC. I am originally from Roanoke, VA and I have lived in South Carolina since 2017. I have always wanted to become a teacher since I was in elementary school and I give credit to my fourth grade teacher. I am very fortunate that Clemson has an excellent education program and I absolutely love being a student in the college of education. I currently work at Clemson Elementary in their after school program where I lead a group of students (3rd/4th grade currently) and I help them with their homework, take them to areas of the school so they can play/have free time/etc., and be a positive role model for them. I am also a substitute teacher at Clemson elementary and I work there whenever I am off from classes. Also, I am obsessed with Big Brother and Avril Lavigne- yes Avril Lavigne was my top artist from Spotify wrapped this year and I was in her top 0.001% of her listeners. Also, I recently adopted a cat with my partner and our cat is the best thing in our lives and we are so fortunate for him. Why I want to teach: This is my favorite question to answer because I can explain my motivation for teaching for DAYS if given the chance. First, being a male and going into a field where there is a lack of male educators is really important to me. Some students may not have a positive male figure in their lives; therefore, I can be a positive male figure for them. Second, I know that the future is dependent on this next generation of teachers and I want to be one of the teachers that leave a lasting impact. And lastly, I’ve had numerous teachers that have stood out throughout my life, but it’s because of my fourth grade teacher that drives me to teach. She had made such an incredible impact on my life and I want to do the same to my students. See what I mean? I can go on FOREVER! Goals & Aspirations: My short-term goal in the future is to get my Master’s here at Clemson through the Teacher Residency Program. This allows me to get my Master’s in 5 years and I will be more qualified to teach. There are numerous benefits for getting your Master’s through the Teacher Residency Program and I encourage anyone REMOTELY thinking about getting their Master’s to apply during the Spring semester of their Junior Year. After receiving my Master’s, I want to move to Fort Mill, SC (outside of Charlotte) with my partner and my cat and teach in Fort Mill schools. After I teach for a certain set number of years, I do eventually want to pursue a PhD in either educational leadership or administrative services to become a high school principal. Lauren Brewington Major: Early Childhood Education Hometown: Union, SC Background: Small group leader in Clemson FCA, vice-president of speech therapy for the Pre-Occupational and Speech Therapy club, currently work in a pre-school, love my dog Jack, love to travel and spend time with family and friends :) Why I want to teach: I want to teach because so many of my grade school teachers made a positive impact on my life and truly cared for me both inside and outside of the classroom. Teachers have the opportunity to be a positive light to their students by being kind, empathetic, and understanding! Not every student has someone like that in their life and so I think it's super cool that teachers get the opportunity to be that person for so many students! Goals & Aspirations: After graduation, I hope to attend graduate school to get a master's degree in Speech Therapy and I would love to either hop right into speech therapy or teach 4-K! I hope to be living somewhere in South Carolina near the coast or by a lake, or even just somewhere in the upstate! Andrea Chavez Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Greenville, SC Background: I am Events chair of Byrnes Hall and I work as a Phonathon Supervisor at the Annual Giving Office. When I go back home, I spend time with my family and friends and work at Publix and Primrose Preschool. I also have two dogs named Puffy and Mia! Why I want to teach: I want to spread the gift of education to children and inspire my future students to work hard and spread kindness in our community. Goals & Aspirations: After college, I want to teach second grade at an Elementary School near my hometown. I also want to get my masters and my PhD, so I can do research in the field of education. Mallory Comerford Major: Special Education Hometown: Cincinnati, OH Background: Hey y'all!! My name is Mallory and I am from Cincinnati, OH. I am a junior and so far have loved my time at Clemson! On campus I am involved in Reformed University Fellowship, Volunteers for Life, and am a Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholar. I also teach a Sunday School class at Clemson Pres, which is a blast! Outside of school I love to be outside, play board games, take photos, and bake! Why I want to teach: From a young age I have always been interested in teaching. So it has always been a passion I was excited to explore. I also always gravitated towards helping individuals with disabilities because that is where I found my greatest joy. So through my experiences in school, I realized I had a strong passion for special education and wanted to be a teacher. Goals & Aspirations: I am very excited to teach special education and am not sure exactly which grade level, but I am leaning towards secondary. In the future I would also love to coach either soccer or basketball! I just want to help students find their purpose and remind them they belong and are here for a reason. Makae Curtis Major: Special Education Hometown: Madison, Wisconsin Background: I am involved in Clemson Life here and Best Buddies and I absolutely love it. I love being involved in things that make me feel more a part of this amazing Clemson community. I also love to workout and hangout with my friends in my free time! A fun fact about me is that I have actually never been to South Carolina before I decided to go to school here! Why I want to teach: I want to teach because I want to inspire and shape the next generation. I want to see the work that I’m doing right in front of me. I want to visualize the change and progress of my students, and the impact I’m making on others. You can’t do that sitting at a desk job. As a teacher I want to be someone who kids can go to, whenever. I want to be a teacher who fosters community and belonging. I want to inspire students to want to be better students and better human beings. I feel like I need more experience in a classroom. Sometimes you need to see how things affect/change your life before you fully understand how and why they affect and change your life. Goals & Aspirations: After graduation I would ultimately love to teach abroad for a few years and teach Special Education. I would eventually like to come back and teach closer to my family after teaching abroad for a few years. I also am maybe going to minor in ASL so I'd love to really incorporate that in my teaching as well! Emily Dial Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Summerville, SC Background: On the weekends you can find me working at the Publix deli! I’ve been there for 2 years and absolutely love working there and meeting different people from around the community! I also have a cat named Edgar and I absolutely adore him. Why I want to teach: I’ve always known teaching was my calling since I was in middle school! I’ve been so excited to pursue my career and make a difference in a community. I started picking up small babysitting jobs and then when I got to high school I started tutoring students and I absolutely loved helping students and seeing them connect the dots when they started to understand the concept. My senior year I actually got to student teach for a semester and adored the second grade classroom and I knew that’s what I wanted to do for the rest of my life. Teaching has always been something I’ve wanted to do, and I’m so excited I get to attend Clemson to study the job of my dream and I’m so close to my goals! Overall, Clemson has been such a positive experience and I am so excited to see what the next chapter of my life looks like! Goals & Aspirations: After graduation I’m hoping to move to Tennessee and find a great community to teach in and make home. I’ve lived in South Carolina all my life and want to start somewhere new. I think it’s really exciting and I’m so fortunate that with teaching I’ll be able to take this anywhere I go and make a difference in student’s lives in a new community. Danielle Edwards Major: Early Childhood Education Hometown: Williston, SC Background: I am the president of Sigma Alpha Omega, I own a painting business, I play guitar, and I have a fear of apples Why I want to teach: I want to teach so that I can encourage future generations to achieve all of their dreams and aspirations, and to be a light to a darkening profession. Goals & Aspirations: After graduation I want to work in a low income school teaching kindergarten. I'm not too sure where, but I want to have a treehouse in my classroom as a reading center. Kate Harrison Major: Secondary Education & English Hometown: Greenville, SC Background: Hey! I’m Kate Harrison from Greenville, SC. I love reading, writing, and hanging out with my friends. Why I want to teach: I love interacting with people, especially older kids. High school students have so many interesting opinions and experiences, and at times they are overlooked. I hope that when studying literature in my classroom I can guide open discussion for these opinions to be heard. Goals & Aspirations: My goal for this year is to finish out strong with grades and relationships. In the future I hope to attend graduate school, and hopefully find a way to teach abroad. Abigail Heeney Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Fort Mill, SC Background: Hey! My name is Abigail and I am a sophomore Elementary Education major and Psychology minor. I've loved every part of the College of Education so far and I am excited to serve on the Undergraduate Student Advisory Board. Along with USAB, I am involved in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and Clemson's Teaching Fellows program on campus. I also love volunteering with the kid's ministry at my church. Some of my favorite things are mountains, sunrises, and painting! Why I want to teach: Ever since the third grade, I have wanted to be a teacher! I have had the opportunity to have such amazing teachers who encouraged me to pursue my passions and love learning. I volunteered at my church and at multiple camps with elementary-aged children during high school, and I loved every second of it! Taking the Teacher Cadet course and getting to see the profession from behind the scenes confirmed that teaching was the right career for me. I hope to positively impact my future students as my past teachers did for me. I aspire to create a classroom environment where each student knows they are appreciated and cared for as they grow in their learning! Goals & Aspirations: After I graduate from Clemson in 2024, I hope to be a part of Clemson's Teacher Residency program and earn my Master's degree! From there, I plan to teach in an elementary school in the state. I cannot wait to see what the future brings for the rest of my college years and my career! Erin Helsel Major: Early Childhood Education Hometown: Ponte Vedra Beach, FL Background: My name is Erin Helsel and I’m an Early Childhood Education major and Nonprofit Leadership minor here at Clemson! On campus, I am involved in Clemson Hope, Reformed University Fellowship, Clemson Life, and Club Tennis. The community I’ve found through my on-campus organizations and education classes has been such a blessing and I hope to help prospective students find similar unique opportunities and experiences! Why I want to teach: My grandma was an incredible elementary school teacher and after she passed away, I wanted to carry on her legacy. In addition to wanting to honor one of my biggest role models, I have a deep passion for serving others, specifically children. Teaching just seemed to be the perfect career path for me to use my strengths to positively impact the world around me! Also, educators have the privilege of mentoring others every single day. I want to do so by showing each one of my students the beauty they possess inside, and by encouraging them to use their talents and passions to reach their fullest potential and make the world a better place. Goals & Aspirations: During my time at Clemson, my goal is to spread kindness and positivity to those around me and do my best academically. After graduating with my bachelor’s and master’s degrees, I look forward to becoming a first or second grade teacher and possibly starting a non-profit organization or owning my own small business. Overall, I want to create a fun and welcoming classroom for all students, be an advocate and mentor for children who need someone in their lives, and just use my God-given gifts to help others! Taj Mack-Pete Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Spartanburg, SC Background: I am a part of the Call Me MiSTER program. I like to play games and hang out with friends. FUN FACT: I once was a CEO of a business in high school. Why I want to teach: Teaching is the best way to help the next generation socially, mentally, and emotionally. Goals & Aspirations: I actually have no idea where to teach at. There are so many places that I want to go and help but I am only one person. It does not matter to me what grade I teach, but if I had to choose a subject it would be mathematics or history. I also want to teach in Japan on a U.S. military base. I want to travel the world and visit Japan, Egypt, Greece, and many more. Scratch that, I WILL travel the world!! Maddie Kirkman Major: Secondary Education & History Hometown: Randleman, North Carolina Background: I was a dancer and a swimmer, and I am a swim coach in the summer! I am involved with CUSG, ClemsonLIFE, and my sorority, Alpha Delta Pi. I love all things Disney and Marvel, and a fun fact about me is that I saw SpiderMan: No Way Home three times in three days! Why I want to teach: I want to teach to inspire students the way my previous teachers inspired me. I hope to be a bright spot on every one of my students’ days. Goals & Aspirations: After graduation, I hope to stay somewhere in the South and be a high school government teacher and maybe a dance teacher on the side! Kat Knight Major: Middle Level Education- Language Arts and Social Studies Hometown: New Berlin, Wisconsin Background: Hi! My name is Kat and I’m a Middle Level Education major, focused specifically on Language Arts and Social Studies. I’m from New Berlin, Wisconsin, which is about 20 minutes outside of Milwaukee. Clemson has been a dream come true and has allowed me to get involved in ways such as being a member of Delta Zeta and being apart of a community service committee. In my free time I love to spend time with friends and family, go to the beach, or chill in my hammock. Teaching has always been a passion of mine, especially within the middle school age group. I used to volunteer at my church as a mentor for middle schoolers which helped to grow my perspective and tools for communicating. With that, I am excited and can’t wait for all the wonderful opportunities in USAB! Why I want to teach: I want to teach in order to have the opportunity to make a positive impact on the lives of students. I want to be a support system for them of encouragement and preparation for the future. I want to provide students with not only the foundational educational skills, but also encourage positive social interactions with peers. Teaching is a great way to inspire students and help shape generations to come! Goals & Aspirations: After graduation, I would like to enroll in the Teacher Residency Program at Clemson and get my Masters degree. I am also looking into a Spanish minor in which I could possibly travel abroad and be able to teach both English and Spanish! My goal is to have my own classroom and create wonderful memories for students! Ellen Mattera Major: Elementary Education Major & Criminal Justice Minor Hometown: Gloucester, Massachusetts Background: I attend FCA, am trying to take Spanish and Italian this semester (send help), have an adorable fat cat, am an Italian citizen as well as American, part of the Pendulum Magazine for Clemson, and am so excited to teach once I graduate. Why I want to teach: I love being able to serve as a meaningful part of someone's education--the moment they understand something you've been working on and light up is so special. I feel like the public school system sometimes fails its students, though, and I want to in a small part do whatever I can to help the students in my classrooms not suffer from this. Goals & Aspirations: I want to teach elementary school (specifically 2nd-4th grade) in an inner city setting (I want to serve a community that has less funding and resources than the other schools in its area). I also will be attending law school night classes after I graduate with my masters from Clemson, and I intend on doing legal work in whatever way I can in the criminal sector during my summers off of teaching, so that I can help represent individuals in the same areas I teach in during the school year. Mary Ellis O’Cain Major: Psychology and Early Childhood Education Hometown: Saint George, SC Background: I am the events committee co-chair for the IPTAY Student Advisory Board. I am also a member of Alpha Delta Pi Sorority where I serve on the executive board as the Vice President of Panhellenic Relations. I enjoy working in the Clemson Ticket office as well as teaching dance at Elevation Dance Company in Pendleton. Why I want to teach: I am the granddaughter, daughter, and niece of educators who have helped shape me into the person I am today. I want to teach so that I can be the outlet, inspiration, and mentor for other students just as my family members and teachers were to me. Goals & Aspirations: After graduation I hope to attend graduate school in order to earn my Education Specialist in School Psychology. After earning my EdS I hope to work in a school district and also teach dance! Lauren Franklin Major: Special Education Hometown: Milton, GA Background: Hi! I'm Lauren, a junior special education major from Milton, GA, an Atlanta suburb. This is my second year on USAB and I am so excited to continue serving the College of Education! Outside of USAB, I'm involved in Alpha Delta Pi and love to volunteer with ClemsonLIFE. I love coffee, my dogs, and walks around Clemson's campus! Why I want to teach: Growing up, I always knew I wanted to be a teacher because I just loved working with kids so much! I was always babysitting, nannying, and volunteering in my church nursery. After becoming involved as a mentor in the special education program at my high school, I fell in love with the students and program. I knew I was being called to teach special education! Goals & Aspirations: After graduation, I'm planning on getting my Masters in Special Education and eventually teaching my own self-contained classroom! Julia Piotrowski Major: Special Education Hometown: Cherry Hill, NJ Background: I am in Kappa Delta, I love baking and cooking and I’ve had 8 concussions. Why I want to teach: I’ve had such amazing teachers throughout my years in school and I want to have as much of an impact on my students' lives as my teachers have had on me. Goals & Aspirations: I want to teach special education in an elementary school. Maddie Reeves Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Anderson, SC Background: Member of the Clemson Shotgun team, a Teaching Fellow Why I want to teach: The reason I want to teach is just the pure thought of potentially having an ever-lasting impact on a child. I feel that with being a teacher, you have the capability to not only shape the minds of children, but their hearts as well. Becoming a teacher has been one of my forever dreams, and seeing it become a reality at Clemson has me beyond excited for my future! Goals & Aspirations: After Clemson, I dream of going back to the district that shaped me growing up. I want to work for the amazing people in Anderson School District 4, and try to give back at least part of the knowledge and memories they gave me. I am an Elementary Education major, so I want to stick in that range of students. As of right now, my plan is to become either a 3rd or 4th grade teacher. I also dream of continuing my shotgun shooting career! After a few years in the classroom, I plan to go back to Clemson to get a degree in Speech Pathology, to work in a more individualized setting with students. Nautica Roberts Major: Elementary Education Hometown: North Charleston, SC Background: Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Incorporated, Write For Hope, Sister-2-Sister Why I want to teach: I want to give back to the community that has shaped me into the person that I am today. The best way that I can do that is by supporting the youth in impoverished areas and ensuring that they are reading on grade level. Goals & Aspirations: Upon graduation I plan to teach first or second grade and participate in a mentorship program to support young women academically and socially. Anna Spencer Major: Special Education Hometown: Myrtle Beach, SC Background: On campus, I am also involved in Fellowship of Christian Athletes and I volunteer with Clemson LIFE. I enjoy reading, playing Just Dance, and hanging out on Bowman. Why I want to teach: I knew I wanted to teach when I volunteered in the Special Education classrooms at the school my mom was a nurse in my junior year. The students in the classroom made me excited to get up each day, and I absolutely fell in love with it! Goals & Aspirations: After I graduate with my B.A. in 2023, I hope to be in Clemson's Teacher Residency program and graduate with my Masters in 2024. After graduation, I would love to teach in a 3rd through 5th grade self-contained classroom! Maggie Toal Major: Early Childhood Education with Psychology minor Hometown: Greenwich, CT Position: Treasurer Background: Hi, my name is Maggie Toal and I am a junior Early Childhood Education major from Greenwich, CT. I am so excited to serve on the Undergraduate Student Advisory Board for the College of Education! Coming from a large family of 7 children, I love spending time with people, especially kids! On campus I am involved in Greek life and Clemson Life and enjoy hanging out with my friends, reading and traveling in my free time! Why I want to teach: Ever since I was younger, I have always wanted to be a teacher. I want to have a positive impact on children and inspire students to be passionate about learning. I hope to make a difference in students' learning experiences and provide meaningful opportunities throughout their education for them to gain confidence and knowledge. I think knowing that teachers have the ability to be vital role models and positively impact children is an opportunity too great to pass! Goals & Aspirations: I hope to gain my Master's in education after completing my undergraduate studies here at Clemson. After this, I want to teach elementary students and create a positive and comfortable environment for their earliest learning experiences! I also hope to travel back near my hometown to live around my family. Ian Thompson Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Greenville, SC Background: I'm Ian, and I'm from Greenville, SC. This is my third year in Clemson, but only my second year in class (COVID had other plans). Last year, I decided to take a break from school and worked as a full-time substitute teacher at Greenville Middle Academy and Beck Academy in Greenville County. I currently work for the College of Education as an undergraduate researcher for the IDEA Lab studying Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence education for elementary and middle school-aged youth. Outside of school, I am a Wyldlife leader at McCants Middle School in Anderson, SC (Go Jackets!), enjoy being outdoors, playing music with my friends in our band, and I even own a software development company. Why I want to teach: Being a teacher was a profession that always interested me growing up. I always loved to learn and share what I knew with others. I started working in the same elementary school I attended as an afterschool caregiver in high school. I decided I wanted to switch my major and become a teacher. Since then, I have done a ton of volunteer work with kids through YoungLife, worked on the research side of education, and worked as a substitute. All of these experiences have solidified my desire to enter teaching. Goals & Aspirations: After graduation, I would love to stay in the Upstate for a while and teach 5th or 6th grade. Ideally, I would like to teach science or math. I am also very interested in graduate school, possibly pursuing a degree in Learning Sciences or Human-Centered Computing. Emily Tomlinson Major: Secondary Education & History Hometown: Anderson, SC Background: Hey y'all! My name is Emily Tomlinson and I am a freshman Secondary Education major with an emphasis in Social Studies! I am from Anderson, South Carolina, which is only about 30 minutes away from campus. Living so close to campus, Clemson has always been my dream school. The education programs here at Clemson are amazing and I truly could not picture myself anywhere else! Outside of USAB, I am involved in Clemson's Teaching Fellows program and I also work on campus within Human Resources. Go Tigers! Why I want to teach: I had always known that I wanted to be a teacher of some sort. Growing up, I had such amazing teachers who truly cared for me as a student and as a person. I knew that I wanted to have that same impact on students of my own one day. With my mom working in the front office of an elementary school, I also got to experience a lot of what goes on within a school from a new perspective. It wasn't until high school that I realized what I wanted to teach. My 11th grade year, I started to acknowledge the passion I had for history as a subject. I always wanted to learn more and could never truly learn enough about it, especially since I had such an amazing history teacher. I hope to have a classroom of my own where my students can find what they are truly passionate about, just like I did. Goals & Aspirations: After graduating from Clemson in 2025, I hope to be a part of Clemson's Teacher Residency program to earn a Master's degree. Afterwards, I plan to stay in-state to teach at a SC high school. I don't really see myself moving too far away from Clemson and home once I begin teaching because I love this area! Ideally, I hope to be teaching US History because that is my favorite! Bryson Worsham Major: Middle Level Math and Science Education Hometown: Seneca, SC Background: I’m a member of the Tiger Band here at Clemson as well as a part of the second cohort for the Teaching Fellows program. A fun fact about me is that I’m a huge Dolly Parton fan and have had season passes to Dollywood for 10 years. Why I want to teach: I want to teach middle school because that is such a moldable age group where kids are really discovering who they are as emerging teenagers. My passion for teaching came from my high school chemistry class where I discovered that I loved helping students learn and accomplish difficult content. Goals & Aspirations: I plan to do the 5 year masters program here at Clemson and graduate with my masters then start teaching. My aspirations is to teach 8th grade science in Oconee or Pickens County, then eventually, move to teach chemistry at the high school level. While teaching I also want to work the marching band program at whatever school I’m employed with. Lauren Zalud Major: Elementary Education Hometown: Plainfield, Illinois Background: I am involved in Clemson Hope. To take a break from school I like to play golf or solve puzzles. I also try to find a new coffee shop to visit every weekend. Why I want to teach: I want to teach because I want to motivate and inspire children to be the best they can possibly be in academics and outside or academics. I want to be the reason they smile when they walk into school everyday. I also want to create a comfortable environment where my students can trust me and lean on me if they may not have a support system at home. I also want to teach because I want to try new teaching methods that are different from textbooks and worksheets and allow students to explore the creative side of academics. I want to challenge my students to see sides to themselves that they may have not seen yet, or thought they were capable of. Goals & Aspirations: After I graduate I want to move back to Illinois and teach in either 2nd or 3rd grade. I would also enjoy teaching 1st grade, but then move up a grade about every 5 years. I hope to get my Master's degree and eventually a PhD and possibly teach an introduction to education class at a University. Contact For more information, please contact: Michelle Cook Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs 105 Old Main mcook@clemson.edu Graduate Student Advisory Board The mission of the College of Education Graduate Student Advisory Board (GSAB) is to promote the welfare of the graduate student body, to enhance relationships between students and faculty, and to serve as ambassadors for the College of Education. Purpose and Structure Purpose GSAB members will do the following: Meet with Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Studies at least once a semester Actively serve on a GSAB subcommittee (e.g., annual Research Forum) Help organize and participate in College of Education recruitment events Serve as ambassadors to the college especially to prospective students Help organize education speakers from within and outside the College of Education Organize a mentoring program for new students Help develop a system to keep alumni connected to the College of Education Identify new initiates needed to recruit new students and to engage current students in the College of Education Structure The Graduate Student Advisory Board seeks to have one representative from each program that has 10 or more students, but every effort will be made to have representation from each department (2-T&L, 3-EHD, 3-EOLD). Teaching and Learning: M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction Education and Human Development: M.Ed. in Literacy M.Ed../Ed.S. Counselor Education M.Ed. Special Education Ph.D. Learning Sciences Ph.D. Literacy, Language and Culture Education and Organizational Leadership Development: M.Ed../Ed.S. Educational Leadership Ed.D. Education Systems Improvement Science Ed.D. Student Affairs M.S. Athletic Leadership MHRD Human Resource Development Ph.D Educational Leadership Once new members are appointed each October, the board will select a chair and co-chairs to lead each of the subcommittees. Membership and Term Membership Members must be enthusiastic about the College and willing to share their commitment with others. Members should be interested in governance. The GSAB will consist of a diverse group of education majors, each bringing a unique perspective to the board. To apply, please complete a short application. All GSAB members must be currently enrolled. Term GSAB members must serve for one year and may serve for up to three years. Terms will run from October to October of following year. Members Peyton Bade, Counselor Education: Student Affairs Jennifer Bateman, Curriculum & Instruction Christian Barrientos, Educational Leadership: Higher Education Holly Bearden, Teaching & Learning: Instructional Coaching Rachel Biritz, Educational Leadership: P-12 CJ Bolding, Learning Sciences Virginia Clark, Learning Sciences Noble Edmisten, Curriculum & Instruction Hope Harris, Teaching & Learning: Experiential Learning in Early Childhood Settings Dylan Hays, Counselor Education: Student Affairs Markus Howell, Athletic Leadership Anna Gray Ivey, Counselor Education: School Counseling Rhoda Latimer, Curriculum & Instruction Sara McGuire, Athletic Leadership Meghan Moore-Hubbard, Curriculum & Instruction Rachel Moss, Counselor Education: Clinical Mental Health Counseling Rachel Onley, Educational Leadership: Higher Education Susan Purser, Educational Leadership Davida Rogers, PhD in Special Education Yamil Ruiz, Curriculum & Instruction Jalyn Rutledge, Athletic Leadership Suzanne Sciortino, Counselor Education: Student Affairs Keilah Shannon, Counselor Education: Student Affairs Contact For more information, please contact: Jeff Marshall Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Studies 105 Old Main marsha9@clemson.edu College of Education "Best In Class" Copyright © Clemson University College of Education "Best In Class" | 101 Gantt Circle 864-656-7656 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson