Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Discover the University of Washington About the UW Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Home About the UW The UW is one of the world’s preeminent public universities. Our impact on individuals, our region and the world is profound — whether we are launching young people into a boundless future or confronting the grand challenges of our time through undaunted research and scholarship. Ranked No. 7 in the world on the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Global Universities rankings, the UW educates more than 54,000 students annually. We turn ideas into impact and transform lives and our world. For more about our impact, visit our news site, UW News. So what defines our students, faculty and community members? Above all, it’s our belief in possibility and our unshakable optimism. It’s a connection to others near and far. It’s a hunger that pushes us to tackle challenges and pursue progress. It’s the conviction that together we can create a world of good. Join us on the journey. About the UW Annual report Sustainability Diversity Vision and values Research Office of Research Corporate & Foundation Relations CoMotion Leadership Board of Regents President Provost Faculty Governance News and events UW News Arts UW Husky Athletics University of Washington Magazine Events calendar Government Relations External Affairs State Relations Federal Relations Regional & Community Relations Visit the UW Visitors Center Guided campus tours Campus maps UW News Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction With EcoCAR, UW students experience post-COVID camaraderie under the hood of a hybrid vehicle Video: Alexes Harris draws attention to low representation of people of color in bone marrow registryMore The UW at a glance The UW is a multi-campus university in Seattle, Tacoma and Bothell, as well as a world-class academic medical center. The UW’s colleges and schools offer 1,800 undergraduate courses each quarter. We confer more than 12,000 bachelor’s, master’s, doctoral and professional degrees annually. Colleges and schools Arts & Sciences Built Environments Business Computer Science & Engineering Dentistry Education Engineering Environment Graduate Information International Studies Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Public Policy & Governance Social Work Campus living Student Life Dining Housing Safety Contact Common emails and phone numbers Addressing letters to the UW UW directory Office directory University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA