Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Food Policy and Obesity Food Policy and Obesity With obesity rates climbing in every nation on earth, we must make nutritious food accessible, increase physical activity, and explore the evidence for policies that encourage healthier choices. Featured Article Weighing the Risks: Rising Obesity Rates Among Older Adults Faculty in Food Policy and Obesity Angela Aidala Associate Research Scientist Sociomedical Sciences Andrew Rundle Professor Epidemiology Anne Paxton Associate Professor Epidemiology & Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Cassie Landers Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Diana Hernández Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Helena Duch Adjunct Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Heather Greenlee Adjunct Associate Professor of Clinical Epidemiology Jeanine Genkinger Associate Professor Epidemiology Jeri Nieves Professor of Clinical Epidemiology Katherine Keyes Professor Epidemiology Mary Ann Chiasson Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Medicine) Manuela Orjuela-Grimm Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Pediatrics (in the HICCC) at the Columbia University Medical Center Mary Gamble Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Renata Schiavo Senior Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences Shakira Suglia Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Xinhua Liu Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Joanne Csete Associate Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Ana Navas-Acien Professor Environmental Health Sciences Yian Gu Assistant Professor of Neurological Sciences (in Neurology, Epidemiology, the G.H. Sergievsky Center and the Taub Institute) Daniel Freedberg Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Medicine Sandra Albrecht Assistant Professor Epidemiology Rupak Shivakoti Assistant Professor Epidemiology Carole Hutchinson Adjunct Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Kiros Berhane Cynthia and Robert Citron-Roslyn and Leslie Goldstein Professor Biostatistics Ka Kahe Tilden-Weger-Bieler Professor Obstetrics & Gynecology and Epidemiology Elizabeth Radin Lecturer Epidemiology News & Features Not All Dietary Fiber is Created Equal: Cereal Fiber Is Linked With Lower Inflammation Researchers at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and colleagues evaluated whether dietary fiber intake was associated with a decrease in inflammation in older adults, and if fiber was inversely related to cardiovascular disease. The results showed that total fiber, and more Food Insecurity Linked to Cardiometabolic Risks in Hispanic/Latino Youths Hispanic/Latino youths with limited access to nutritionally adequate food—especially those whose parents were foreign-born—had worse cardiometabolic profiles than their “food secure” counterparts, according to a study published in Pediatrics. Until now, little was known about the role of foo Food Security Expert Lew Ziska Contributes to Landmark UN Climate Report Climate change is an ongoing threat to human health and environments—including food and water sources around the world—and the world is running out of time to change course. The assessment is in a new report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) featur See All Just Published Wang, Y.C., Hsiao, A., Chamberlin, P. … & Stevelos, J. (2017). Nutrition Quality of US School Snack Foods: A First Look at 2011-2014 Bid Records in 8 School Districts. Journal of School Health. View abstract. Shelton, R., Colgrove, J., Lee, G., Truong, M., & Wingood, G. (2016). Message framing in the context of the national menu-labelling policy: a comparison of public health and private industry interests. Public Health Nutrition. View abstract. Greenlee, H. et al. (2016). Obesity rates rising faster in cancer survivors than in general population. Journal of Clinical Oncology. View abstract. Spoer, B. & Fullilove, R.E. (2016). Obesity: A Syndemics Perspective. Clinical Obesity. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion Conducts research, education, and service to improve health promotion and communication practices. Obesity Prevention Initiative Our goal is discover evidence for effective societal approaches for obesity prevention. Columbia University Head Start Provides services to 300 low-income children and their families from birth to age five, as well as to pregnant women. National Center for Children in Poverty Dedicated to promoting the economic security, health, and well-being of America’s low-income families and children. Food, Physical Activity, and Wellness Lab Improving Health Outcomes for Cancer Survivors Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers