Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Diversity at the UW Menu Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Home Diversity at the UW Native Life & Tribal Relations Native Life & Tribal Relations Close Menu Home Native Life & Tribal Relations wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Co-Sponsorship Request for Academic Events Rental Rates & Add-on Fees Reservations wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Calendar Guest Reservation and User Policy Phase I Archives News & Milestones Committee Members Construction Photo Galleries Native American Advisory Board About Board Members Initiatives Resource Links Tribal Leadership Summit Tribal Leadership Summit Archives Spotlight on Native Issues Passion Never Rests: UW and area tribal communities celebrated the grand opening for wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House, March 12-13, 2015. Read more. First Nations at the UW Meetings take place take place on Wednesdays at 6:00 p.m. at the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center in the Native Room. University Land Acknowledgment The University of Washington acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations.* Native Life The purpose of this web site is to centralize the Native-focused resources available on the University of Washington’s campus in Seattle. We understand the University can be a challenging environment for those coming from American Indian/Alaska Native communities and difficult to navigate for anyone who is new to the campus. We also recognize the need to provide guidance for students to find the academic, social, and cultural support systems available to them. This site is dedicated to serving those needs of American Indian/Alaska Native students, staff, faculty and communities. Native Graduation (Formerly Raven’s Feast) Native Graduation is held on the Friday before UW – Seattle graduation and hosted by Native faculty and Staff who volunteer their time and effort. The OMA/D ECC and wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ teams work with the volunteer group to ensure full support and a seamless program. If you are a graduating student, please follow our social media platforms or look for our outreach via email after the application date to graduate has passed. Tribal Relations For more complete and detailed information about UW Tribal Relations, please visit the Office of Tribal Relation website at https://www.washington.edu/tribalrelations/. The United States’ trust responsibility is a well-established legal obligation that originates from the unique, historical relationship between the United States and Indian tribes. The Constitution recognized Indian tribes as entities distinct from states and foreign nations. Dating back as early as 1831, the United States formally recognized the existence of the Federal trust relationship toward Indian tribes. (US Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs) There are 574 federally recognized tribes in the United States and 29 of those tribes are in the state of Washington, 3 in the state of Idaho, 4 in the state of Oregon, and 1 in the state of Montana with historical ties to the Washington territory. Each of these independent nations is governed by their own laws, rules, regulations, policy, traditions, and languages. The state is comprised of tribal lands or co-managed public lands, therefore it is important for the University of Washington to work together to develop strong efficient working relationships. Existing relationships between UW and certain tribal communities have a demonstrated benefit for both sides which includes sharing of knowledge, research opportunities, and educational opportunities for tribal members and descendants. Feedback Did you find this site helpful? We welcome feedback from the community. Please contact VP of OMA/D, Rickey Hall at vpomad@uw.edu or VP of External Affairs, Randy Hodgins at rhodgins@uw.edu with any compliments or suggestions. *Our acknowledgement of the tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations comes from consultation and guidance by the Governor’s Office of Indian Affairs and Federal regulations and policies. In this phrasing, we are adhering to tribal sovereignty. Home Native Life & Tribal Relations wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Co-Sponsorship Request for Academic Events Rental Rates & Add-on Fees Reservations wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Calendar Guest Reservation and User Policy Phase I Archives News & Milestones Committee Members Construction Photo Galleries Native American Advisory Board About Board Members Initiatives Resource Links Tribal Leadership Summit Tribal Leadership Summit Archives MAKE A GIFT Your support for diversity related scholarships and programs at the UW is invaluable. Find more information on donations or make a gift UW Native Life American Indian Student Commission (AISC) First Nations @ UW Student Group (FNUW) American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) Native Business Association (NBA) Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS) Medicine Wheel Society (MWS) Native American Law Students Association (NALSA) Native American Advisory Board (NAAB) Native Faculty and Staff Pow Wow More on Tribal Relations 2021 Tribal Summit Resource Directory Native Resources @ UW U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs Federal Recognition FAQ’s Washington State Governor’s Office of Indian Affairs For further information, please contact VP of OMA&D, Rickey Hall at vpomad@uw.edu or VP of External Affairs, Randy Hodgins at rhodgins@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA