COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Economics, Minor MinorEconomics All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Economics A minor in economics from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will give you a basic understanding of economics—and increase your analytical and critical thinking skills. The minor is a useful addition to many business-related degrees and in a wide range of careers. Learn how a minor in economics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Economics student used her skills to help fellow students As an economics major, Stella Yang spent her senior year helping transform the student fees process as treasurer of the Student Government Association. Stella took the opportunity to meaningfully work with staff and students across the university. “It was really cool being able to get together with students and people at all different levels at the university to come together and work on the solution that worked best,” she said. Curriculum The 15-credit-hour economics minor is available to any student whose major or area of emphasis is outside of economics. You’ll study the principles of macroeconomics and microeconomics—and take nine credit hours of upper-division economics courses based on your interest. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives economics students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers as: market research, credit and financial analysts economic consultants actuaries lawyers Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Economics Accounting Finance 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©