Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries 21st-century Learning You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact 21st-century Learning Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library One way to level up remote learning? Bring in a telepresence robot. Emmy-nominated reporter Amy Caples, KLN ’85, always knew she was going to come back to Temple. “Sitting in Annenberg Hall in 1984, I knew I would eventually teach. I had these amazing professors who had worked in the field who then came back,” she said. “It was those people who made it real, who had accomplished what I wanted to accomplish.” And after a storied 20-year career in broadcast journalism, serving as a co-anchor of the CBS3 morning show for six of those years, Caples successfully chased the future she wanted, just like her professors. It was time to pay it forward. Caples has been teaching and mentoring rising journalism and media production students at the Klein College of Media and Communication since 2005, quickly becoming a student favorite. Amy Caples ’85 Alumna and Professor, Klein College of Media and Communication “I’ve been doing this [teaching] for 15 years and I always like to say a lot of it is a well-oiled machine. What this has taught me is that the machine can be taken apart and put back together a lot of different ways.” Time to get creative When COVID-19 struck, Caples was met with a challenge: How did she ensure her students got the hands-on, in-studio experience they needed? Her solution: A telepresence robot. “Yeah, I could have been on a Zoom call, but this allows me to wheel up to my students in the studio and talk to them. That’s what was so important—I’m giving the direction. I didn’t want anybody who doesn’t know what I know to be directing my students in this type of work ... I’m still able to do what I would normally do if I was standing in the control room.” Caples operates the robot from home while students enter the studio one at a time following very strict safety protocols. “None of my students felt like they got shorted on this course because this is how all media is working right now. You’ve got sports anchors doing play-by-play from their living rooms, people directing from home. This isn’t second best, this is what's actually happening on TV every day in this country,” said Caples. Perseverance, always This experience, Caples explains, has been eye-opening for her students to see their resiliency, adaptability and how to value things differently. “It’s going to be a huge advantage for them,” she said. Caples proved that this can be done successfully, and thinks this kind of technology deserves a long-term place in education. “I think it’s going to open up the doors to have people teach from all over the world,” she said. “When you think of it, particularly in terms of production, you could have the director of NBC Nightly News just be able to teleport and go around and see what we’re doing and offer suggestions in real time. That’s the magic of it.” Learn More Faculty Insight Temple’s faculty are leaders in their fields, mentors, innovators and thought leaders. Read about their impact in the classroom and around the world. Learn More Read news stories about Temple's faculty Industry-driven Professors, Mentors and Educators Our faculty create an open, empowering learning environment for all students to ask questions, challenge the status quo and to think differently than they thought before. They encourage students to develop a wide range of skills to prepare for successful careers, from cultural competencies to technical abilities and more. Faculty Expertise As a major national research university, Temple counts among its faculty some of the most innovative changemakers and scholars in the country. They are experts in their fields, actively engaging in research and working one-on-one with students to help them get to where they need to be. Temple is a large university, but our class sizes are small—averaging just 29 students. Our faculty are also thought leaders who provide compelling insights into what’s happening in our world right now. These insights are integrated into the classroom, where students grow to become informed global citizens. Innovative Solutions in the COVID-19 Era Amy Caples set the bar high when she brought in a telepresence robot to ensure her students still received the highest quality experience possible, despite the odds. But, that’s what’s expected at Temple, and Caples is in good company with other faculty, staff and students who challenged themselves to see the opportunities the pandemic presented. Faculty in the College of Liberal Arts organized a virtual dinner with refugees catered by a local refugee-owned and operated business, so students could pick up a meal on Main Campus and enjoy together, remotely. The Boyer College of Music and Dance facilitated faculty and student collaboration to record an album entirely from their homes, and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts reimagined their performances so they could be done safely. Our community has been able to connect virtually with influential thought leaders to engage in important discussions with our campus community, such as attorney Ben Crump and television host and activist LaToya Stroman leading a conversation about racial injustices. View Main Page Learn About Our Impact Read more stories about the work we do and see how far we can go. View Main Page Learn About Our Impact Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.