Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Campus Environment> Health, Safety and Welfare> Tobacco and Vaping Use on Campus - Version 1 Tobacco and Vaping Use on Campus Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG05.20.09 Title Tobacco and Vaping Use on Campus Category Campus Environment Sub-category Health, Safety and Welfare Authority Chancellor History Revised, December 4, 2008; Approved by Chancellor’s Executive Council January 12, 2009; July 2017; Revised and approved by Chancellor’s Executive Council on April 23, 2018 (effective July 1, 2018) Contact Human Resources (252) 328-9848 Employee Wellness Related Policies N.C. General Statutes 143-596 to 143-597 and 130A-491 to 130A-493.1 Additional References Brody School of Medicine Office of Prospective Health https://smokefree.gov ECU Employee Relations 1. Introduction 1.1. This regulation governs all buildings and property that are owned, leased or occupied by East Carolina University ("university"). This regulation also governs the grounds and walkways of such properties and state vehicles. 1.2. This regulation is adopted in accordance with North Carolina law for purposes of improving public health and applies to all faculty, staff, students, visitors and patients. It is the responsibility of every member of the university community to conduct himself or herself in compliance with this regulation. 2. Tobacco and Vaping Use Restrictions 2.1. "Tobacco and Vaping use" is defined as the use of any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, and any component, part or accessory of a tobacco and vaping product, including but not limited to cigarettes; cigars; little cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco and vaping; snuff; snuff flour; Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobacco; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cutting and sweepings of tobacco, e-cigarettes, hookah, and other kinds and forms of tobacco. Tobacco use shall be understood to also include vaping or vaporizing. A tobacco product excludes any product that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose. 2.1.1 Buildings: Effective August 14, 2008, smoking is prohibited inside university owned or leased buildings, including residence halls governed by the division of Student Affairs. The word "buildings" includes, but is not limited to, building walls, exits, entrances, air intakes, windows, exterior stairs, balconies, porches, breezeways or any other structure adjoining a campus building. 2.1.2 Grounds and Walkways: Effective July 1, 2018, tobacco and vaping use is prohibited within 100 linear feet of all University buildings. Tobacco and vaping use may be prohibited in other outdoor spaces (beyond 100 feet) for safety or health reasons as approved by the Office of Environmental Health and Safety. 2.1.3 ECU Health Sciences Complex ("HSC"): 2.1.3.1 Tobacco and vaping use is prohibited on HSC grounds by ECU faculty, staff, students, patients and visitors. This regulation applies to parked cars on the grounds and to all property leased to, owned, or occupied by the HSC. 2.1.3.2 Offsite facilities: If a HSC facility is located off campus or otherwise away from the Health Science Center campus, the regulation will still apply. 2.1.4 State Vehicles: Effective January 1, 2009, smoking is prohibited in all state vehicles. State vehicles are defined as a passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the State and assigned permanently or temporarily to a State employee, State agency, or institution for official State business. One or more signs placed in conspicuous areas of the vehicle shall state that "smoking is prohibited" and may include the international "no smoking" symbol. 2.1.5 Exceptions 2.1.5.1 Tobacco and vaping use is permitted inside university buildings that are used for medical or scientific research to the extent that smoking is an integral part of the research. Tobacco and vaping use permitted under this subsection shall be confined to the area where the research is being conducted and as approved by the Office of Environmental Health and Safety. 2.1.5.2 For outside athletic venues that require ticketing with no re-entry, designated areas approved by the Office of Environmental Health and Safety shall remain in effect at the discretion of the Athletic Director. 3. Implementation 3.1. Facilities Services, in consultation with the University Wellness Committee, shall be responsible for: (1) design, installation and maintenance of signage to promote awareness of the regulation at appropriate building locations and signage, (2) Facilities Services will provide appropriate receptacles for smoking waste in designated areas. Signage should include a phone number for smoking cessation resources (i.e., QuitlineNC). 3.2. Department heads will be responsible for installation and maintenance of signage in state vehicles under their control. 3.3. University Communication, Public Affairs & Marketing, with input from the University Wellness Committee, will implement a communications plan to highlight available tobacco use cessation services and inform the campus community about the regulation. 3.4. The University Wellness Committee, with support from Healthy Pirates and other student groups, will implement an educational campaign to inform, educate, and promote compliance with the regulation. 3.5. Ongoing implementation to promote compliance will be led by Campus Recreation and Wellness (with responsibility for educating students) and Human Resources (with responsibility for educating staff and in collaboration with Office for Faculty Excellence for educating faculty). 4. Enforcement 4.1. Deans, directors and department heads have responsibility for education and enforcement of this regulation when it involves individuals within their unit. However, all members of the university community should promote compliance by educating visitors, patients and new faculty, staff and students. Students violating this regulation may be referred to the Dean of Students. Human Resources is available to assist with faculty and staff violations. 4.2. Visitors, patients, and students who violate the regulation should be reminded of the regulation and asked to comply. If a student refuses to comply with the regulation, the Dean of Students' office should be contacted. That office will follow up with the student regarding the regulation and available resources. 4.3. Any university employee who violates the regulation should be reminded of the regulation and asked to comply. If an employee refuses to comply with the regulation, the immediate supervisor of the employee will be advised. The immediate supervisor will follow up with the employee to remind him/her about the regulation and available resources. Continuing violations may also result in appropriate corrective action under the applicable disciplinary policy. 4.4. ECU Police may issue citations to anyone who violates this regulation. Citations result in a fine of up to $25 and are subject to additional court costs and/or other University policies relating to debts owed the University. 5. Regulation Management 5.1 In conformance with the Policy on Formatting, Adopting Policies Rules and Regulations, Human Resources will recommend updates to this regulation as required. Human Resources is available to assist departments in policy interpretation and compliance. The University Wellness Committee is available to assist in efforts promoting education and compliance. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier