Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home UT4U Header Image UT4U Site- UT4U UT4U Resources Announcements UT4U Icon Blocks Employee Benefits Holiday Schedule Inclement Weather Leave Request One UT System People Soft Remote Access Remote Outlook Timesheet System Human Resources Page title UT4U Main page content FY 2023 Holiday Schedule Apr 4th, 2022 The FY 2023 Holiday Schedule has been posted by the Office of Talent & Innovation. The number of annual holidays a state agency is permitted to observe is determined by the national and state holidays referenced in Sec. 662.003 of the Texas Government Code, including where those holidays fall during the calendar week. Holidays that fall on a weekend are not included in the total… Read more about FY 2023 Holiday Schedule Alert: Phishing Campaigns Spoof the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Mar 18th, 2022 Cyber criminals are in full force this tax season. Security researchers have spotted multiple phishing campaigns impersonating the Internal Revenue Service (IRS.gov). These emails pretend to be from the IRS sending the recipient their 2021 Tax Return, W-9 forms, and other tax documents commonly required during the tax season. … Read more about Alert: Phishing Campaigns Spoof the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Together We Care: Staff Council Plans SECC Events Oct 4th, 2021 UT System Administration SECC Events October 1 – October 31 The State Employee Charitable Campaign (SECC) offers an easy, convenient way for state employees to contribute through payroll deductions to charitable organizations that support those in need locally and across Texas. The UT System Administration Staff Council has scheduled a variety of fun events in October to encourage participation… Read more about Together We Care: Staff Council Plans SECC Events Reports of Malicious Emails Will Now Receive Automated Responses Aug 5th, 2021 Every day, UT System Administration staff use the Phish Alert Button (PAB) to report suspected malicious email. Those reports will now receive a faster response, thanks to a new tool that will automatically scan reported email messages and send an automated response back indicating whether the reported email is legitimate, spam or a threat. The automated response will only be sent to UT System employees who make the report using the PAB. If your Outlook desktop app does not have the PAB, contact the Help Desk. Visit the… Read more about Reports of Malicious Emails Will Now Receive Automated Responses FY 2022 Holiday Schedule Announced Jul 8th, 2021 The FY 2022 Holiday Schedule has been posted by the Office of Talent & Innovation. The number of annual holidays a state… Read more about FY 2022 Holiday Schedule Announced Printing at UT System Restored Jul 6th, 2021 A vulnerability affecting the Microsoft Windows print spooler, which helps your computer interact with printers and orders the print jobs in your queue, was reported July 1. The vulnerability could potentially have allowed attackers to remotely execute code with system-level privileges, so printing to the network printer fleet in the UT System Building was disabled at that time. Microsoft issued a security patch to address the vulnerability on July 7. After working through the night to install the update, OTIS was able to restore printing in the UT System Building. Contact the… Read more about Printing at UT System Restored LinkedIn Data Leak Likely to Result in Increased Online Attacks Jul 5th, 2021 Users of the business and employment-oriented online service LinkedIn should be aware that the personal profiles of up to 1 billion users have been made available on the underground online market place, also referred to as the dark web. The database includes full names, email addresses, workplace information, and other data points the account owners publicly listed on their LinkedIn profiles. While not highly sensitive, the data could still be used by cyber criminals to stage attacks against users and business organizations who they see as affluent and potentially… Read more about LinkedIn Data Leak Likely to Result in Increased Online Attacks Be Alert for UT System Administration Phone Number Spoofing Jun 23rd, 2021 There have been reports of employees receiving phone calls from numbers "spoofing" the UT System Administration area code and exchanges. Phone number spoofing is when a caller deliberately falsifies the information transmitted to your caller ID display to disguise their identity. Criminals often use phone call spoofing so it appears that an incoming call is coming from a local number, or spoof a number from a company or a government agency that you may already know and trust. If you answer, they use social engineering to try to steal your personal information, which can be used in… Read more about Be Alert for UT System Administration Phone Number Spoofing Entertaining New Security Awareness Training Opportunities Available Jun 3rd, 2021 When you think of words to describe security awareness training, "entertaining" is probably not first. The UT System Office of Information Security is working to change that with a new platform provided by KnowBe4 that offers content that is relevant, engaging and (dare we say it?) fun! The Cyber Smart! training campaign kicks off with a few episodes from some popular KnowBe4 series, as well as videos and games that reinforce the importance of security practices and how to keep UT System Administration and personal data and systems safe. Each training item an… Read more about Entertaining New Security Awareness Training Opportunities Available Update to Phish Alert Button Planned May 4th, 2021 The UT System Information Security Office (ISO) will be updating the phish alert button in Outlook during the evening of Wednesday, May 5. As part of this process, ISO staff will remove the existing phish alert button and replace it with an updated button. The button will not look new to some System Administration employees, but others have a different version or are missing the button will now have the same ability to report… Read more about Update to Phish Alert Button Planned Safe Links implementation will improve System Administration email security Nov 18th, 2020 The UT System OTIS staff will be implementing Microsoft Safe Links to add another layer of protection to System Administration email. Safe Links re-writes links in email messages to apply protection when a link is clicked. If a link is determined to be harmful or suspicious, Microsoft blocks access to that link. The feature applies to UT System email accessed using Outlook, whether using Outlook online or via the desktop/mobile application. Users will not immediately notice any changes for most email messages. Links will look like they usually do, but the hotlink will point to a… Read more about Safe Links implementation will improve System Administration email security Block 82 Presents: “From Google to NPR: How storytelling has served me on my professional journey” on Nov. 9 Oct 28th, 2020 Please join the UT System Office of Academic Affairs and the Office of Talent and Innovation on Monday, November 9, at 12 p.m. on Zoom for a conversation with Jesse Byrd, an NPR Foundation board member and award-winning writer and editor. A former Silicon Valley techie who once worked for Google, Byrd pivoted to pursue his true passion for creating stories. His books have won four competitions worldwide and he is currently working with NBA athletes, major publishers and global nonprofits to develop original stories for young readers. During the Block 82 event, Byrd will break down… Read more about Block 82 Presents: “From Google to NPR: How storytelling has served me on my professional journey” on Nov. 9 UT System State Employee Charitable Campaign "Together We Care" Oct 8th, 2020 The State Employee Charitable Campaign (SECC) offers an easy and convenient way for state employees to contribute to charitable organizations through payroll deduction. Visit the UT System Administration's Online Giving Portal to learn more about SECC, Capital Area Charities… Read more about UT System State Employee Charitable Campaign "Together We Care" Phishing tournament commemorates National Cyber Security Awareness Month Oct 1st, 2020 October is National Cyber Security Awareness Month and to celebrate, the UT System Administration Information Security Office is holding its first annual Phishing Tournament. Each week one or more phishing lures will be delivered to UT System Administration email inboxes. Spot the phishing email and report it to… Read more about Phishing tournament commemorates National Cyber Security Awareness Month Making the Move to PeopleSoft Self-Service Timesheets Aug 3rd, 2020 Effective with the work week beginning August 3, 2020, all UT System Administration timesheets will be submitted and approved directly in PeopleSoft rather than through the Employee Timesheet System (ETS). After taking the following actions, UT System Administration employees and managers will no longer use the ETS: Employees must submit all timesheets through the week of 7/27 in ETS by Monday, August 3. Managers must approve all timesheets in ETS by Tuesday, August 4. PeopleSoft Training & Resources The Office of Talent and Innovation has… Read more about Making the Move to PeopleSoft Self-Service Timesheets Annual Enrollment Open through July 31 Jul 20th, 2020 The Office of Talent and Innovation will be holding demo sessions on how to navigate the new My UT Benefits user experience for open enrollment. Learn how to easily enroll in benefits for the upcoming plan year by attending a demo session or following the guide provided: July 22, 10:00am-10:30am, Teams Meeting Link… Read more about Annual Enrollment Open through July 31 UT System Administration Guide to Returning to the Workplace Jun 12th, 2020 Beginning June 15, more System Administration staff will return to the UT System Building to continue to serve and support UT institutions and the people of Texas. This guide for returning to the workplace outlines practices and protocol to promote a healthy and safe environment as more employees and tenants return to working in the building. Read more about UT System Administration Guide to Returning to the Workplace New Security Checkup Feature from Duo Starting May 20 May 15th, 2020 To offer UT System employees greater peace of mind regarding the security of their mobile devices, the Office of Information Security is turning on a feature in the Duo two-factor authentication app called Security Checkup. This feature checks the security settings of the mobile device and recommends updates to make the phone more secure if needed. If there are no security issues, no messages or recommendations appear. Employees who choose not to make any recommended security updates will not be prevented from accessing UT System information resources. Additional information is… Read more about New Security Checkup Feature from Duo Starting May 20 FY 2021 Holiday Schedule May 5th, 2020 The FY 2021 Holiday Schedule has been posted by the Office of Talent & Innovation. The number of holidays for all state agencies and institutions of higher education is set by the Texas Legislature, although higher education institutions have flexibility in determining the actual days within that number. The FY 2021 schedule includes 13 designated holidays plus 1 floating holiday (14 total). The number of holidays each year is determined by where the various national and state holidays fall during the calendar… Read more about FY 2021 Holiday Schedule Block 82 Presents: “Inventing the Future of Medicine” on March 9 Feb 11th, 2020 The UT System Office of Academic Affairs and the Office of Talent and Innovation invite you to a conversation with Dr. Livia Eberlin, an award-winning UT Austin scientist and inventor, on Monday, March 9, 12-1 p.m., in the Multipurpose Room. An assistant professor in UT Austin's Department of Chemistry, Eberlin's awards include a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship--the so-called "genius grant"--for her research on the use of mass spectrometry to detect cancerous tissue. She will be joined by one of her graduate students, Kyana Garza. Hear about Dr. Eberlin's invention that was… Read more about Block 82 Presents: “Inventing the Future of Medicine” on March 9 Pagination 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 › ›› » Last » UT4U Quick Links UT System COVID-19 Info 2 Factor Enrollment Benefits, Employee Login Benefits, Office Homepage Brand/Writing Guidelines Cloud Storage Directory Links eShop - Shopper Portal Facility Work Requests Form Library Inclement Weather IT Help Desk Ticket Learning Zone (Percipio) Leave Request Form LinkedIn Learning Outlook Web Access Office 365 OTIS SharePoint Outside Activity Portal PeopleSoft Portal Phishing Awareness Policy Library Position Management Forms Remote Access Resource Scheduler Security Awareness Training SharePoint 2010 Timesheets Travel Overage Calculator Zoom & Teams Meeting Help UT4U - Site Links Living Well UT System Building Staff Council Wellness UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices