Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Accessing Care How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use It can be difficult to know when to say something when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Ask yourself... How does it affect you? Have you ever had to take care of your friend because of their alcohol or drug use? How frequently does it happen? Have you ever felt embarrassed or hurt by something they said or did while intoxicated? Have you lost time from classes, studying, or a job in order to help your friend cope with problems caused by their drinking or drug use? Do you worry about your friend’s use on a regular basis? How does it affect your friend? Does your friend drink in order to get drunk? Has your friend ever been unable to remember things they said or did while drinking (blacked out)? Has your friend ever received medical care for something related to drinking or drug use? Have you noticed a decline in personal health or appearance? Is your friend doing dangerous things or taking more risks because of drugs or alcohol? Has your friend expressed wanting to cut down on drinking or drug use? Does your friend drink or use another drug to steady their nerves or to get rid of a hangover? Has your friend ever been in trouble because of drinking or drug use? Does your friend find it necessary to drink or get high in order to enjoy being social? Are drugs or alcohol affecting your friend's academic performance? Does your friend drink to escape from or to cope with problems or stress? Do they use drugs or alcohol to avoid painful feelings? Has your friend ever had a frightening experience with drugs or alcohol but continued to use? Is your friend annoyed when people criticize their drinking? Does anyone in your friend's family drink to excess regularly? Do any close relatives have a drinking or drug problem? The more times you answer yes, and the more frequently each factor is true, the more likely it is that your friend is in need of help. A caring conversation can help your friend learn about how their behavior affects others and can help your friend get the help they need. Remember, needing help is not the same as being an alcoholic or an addict. Uncontrolled alcohol or drug use is not the only sign that someone needs help. Many people can stop whenever they choose, even for long periods of time. The important question is what happens to them when they drink or use drugs. Do they do things they regret later: get in fights, destroy property, drive under the influence, or have unplanned or unwanted sex? There are many ways to help someone who's having trouble with alcohol or drugs. Some people need the wake up call of your honest observations and concerns; others can benefit from professional help to make changes in their behavior. Still others need professional help to maintain complete abstinence through rehabilitation programs and/or recovery programs. At Brown there's help to know which one is right for your friend. Before you talk to your friend Learn about drug and alcohol abuse. You can talk to any of the resources listed below without giving your friend's name. Prepare a list of specific problems that have occurred because of your friend's drinking or drug use. Keep these items as concrete as possible. "You're so antisocial when you drink" will not mean as much as, "When you were drunk, you made fun of me and were mean to me. You hurt me." Bring the list with you and keep the conversation focused. Choose a private location where you can talk without embarrassment or interruption. Your friend is more likely to hear you in a restaurant booth than at a large table in a dining hall. A talk in your room with the TV and music off will be more successful than one in your friend's room where they can easily create distractions while you talk. How to talk to your friend Talk to your friend when they are sober. The sooner you can arrange this after a concerning episode, the better. Your message will have more impact while your friend is in the immediate aftermath than it will a week later. Restrict your comments to what you feel and what you have experienced of your friend's behavior. Express statements that cannot be disputed. Remarks like, "Everyone's disgusted with you," or, "Lily thinks you have a real problem," will probably lead to arguments about Lily's problems or who 'everyone' is. Avoid such generalizations. Convey your concern for your friend's well being with specific statements. "I want to talk to you because I am worried about you," or "Our friendship means a lot to me. I don't like to see what's been happening." It is important to openly discuss the negative consequences of your friend's drinking or drug use. Use concrete examples from your list. "At the party I was left standing there while you threw up. The next day you were too hung over to write your paper. It makes me sad that these things are happening in your life." Emphasize the difference between sober behavior that you like and drinking behavior that you dislike. "You have the most wonderful sense of humor, but when you drink it turns into cruel sarcasm and you're not funny any more. You're mean." Be sure to distinguish between the person and the behavior. "I think you're a great person, but the more marijuana you smoke, the less you seem to care about anything." Encourage your friend to consult with a professional to talk about their alcohol or substance use. Give them the resources listed below. You can offer to find out more about the resources or go with them to an appointment. What NOT to do Don't accuse or argue. If your friend gets angry or provokes you, remind yourself to remain calm and to stay focused on your goal -- to be helpful by honestly expressing your concerns. "I understand that you don't like some things I do, either; we can talk about them later. My point now is that when you drink, you're doing dangerous things." Don't lecture or moralize. Remain factual, listen, and be nonjudgmental. Remarks like, "You've been acting like a slut," will only elicit defensive anger. Instead say, "You've been hooking up with people you don't like and doing things you regret the next day." Don't give up. If your friend seems resistant, you can bring it up later or let them know you care and are there for them if they ever want to talk. On-Campus Resources Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Click here to find out what happens when you call EMS. Director of Student and Employee Accessibility Services, 401.863-9588 Support is available for students who are in recovery from substance use disorders. Please contact Dean Catherine Axe, Director of Student and Employee Accessibility Services, for more information. [email protected]; 401-863-9588. BWell Health Promotion 401.863-2794 Provides individual confidential appointments where a Health Educator and the student collaborate to develop a schema about the effects of their substance use. These conversations can be a powerful tool in helping to make informed decisions, reduce harm, prevent relapse or connect with additional resources. Dean of Chemical Dependency ([email protected]) 401.863-2536 Provides comprehensive academic and social support in non-clinical settings for anyone in recovery from chemical dependency. Available for consultation for community members who are concerned about their use or who suspect that someone has a problem, or who are negatively affected by others' substance abuse. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Provides treatment for a range of psychological concerns, including drug and alcohol use issues, in a confidential setting and a goal focused, collaborative framework. Student Support Deans Provides treatment for a range of psychological concerns, including drug and alcohol use issues, in a confidential setting and a goal focused, collaborative framework. Local and National Resources Alcoholics Anonymous 401-438-8860 Anonymous twelve-step recovery program. For information and meetings, go to rhodeisland-aa.org. Butler Hospital 1-800-433-6888 (inside RI) or 1-800-272-9699 (outside RI) When you or someone you know is ready to commit or re-commit to recovery the patient assessment team at Butler can assist in finding the right program. For more information visit www.butler.org. Narcotics Anonymous 866-624-3578 12 step recovery program that focuses on the disease of addiction rather than any particular drug. Visit www.gpana.org to find local meetings or access the helpline information. The Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Health Care, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals (BHDDH) This site offers a listing of licensed substance use treatment agencies throughout Rhode Island. List includes agencies licensed to provide detox, residential, outpatient, and medication-assisted treatment services. Rhode Island’s Hope & Recovery Support Line, 401-942-STOP (7867) This support line connects people to treatment and recovery services 24 hours/day, 7 days/week, 365 days/year. SAMHSA's National Helpline 1-800-662-HELP (4357) TTY: 1-800-487-4889 This Helpline provides 24-hour, free and confidential treatment referral and information about mental and/or substance use disorders, prevention, and recovery in English and Spanish. ZenCare Allows you to review local (Providence and Boston area) therapists. You can filter options by selecting alcohol, substance use or recovery focus. You can also filter by insurance accepted and schedule a phone consultation to see if it is a right fit. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook