Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ About Home About Dean's Welcome Dean's Welcome We are the heart of SMU, and the oldest, largest, and most diverse school on campus. The over 1500 courses offered at Dedman every year provide all SMU students with broad and deep knowledge of our world in its physical, symbolic, quantitative, social, and expressive dimensions. Together with foundations in critical thinking, logic and analytics, written and verbal communication, and ethics and social responsibility, this knowledge provides students with the core competencies they will need to be successful in their careers and in their lives. There are over 300 full-time, highly dedicated faculty in Dedman College. Internationally recognized experts in their fields, the faculty discover, produce, and disseminate new knowledge, and they collaborate with other experts both locally and around the world on a vast variety of projects. Most important, however, they bring their finely honed expertise into the classroom, where they share with students their knowledge and their passions for their fields. Our small class sizes provide students with easy access to faculty and wonderful opportunities to participate in hands-on research programs. Moreover, a network of successful and highly engaged alumni around the world are prepared to serve as additional sources of knowledge and support for our students as they enter the workforce. At Dedman College, faculty and students confront real-world problems with both the latest science and the wisdom of the ages; they grapple with the complexities of understanding the world’s economic and political systems; and they tackle the perplexing question of what it means to be human. We welcome you to visit our campus to experience for yourselves the exciting intellectual atmosphere and to meet faculty, students and staff who together work toward creating a powerful learning environment. Sincerely, Thomas DiPiero Dean and Professor of World Languages and Literatures and English Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Southern Methodist University Watch: Liberal Arts Education in the 21st Century About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Diversity Matters Publications Facilities Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube