COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Project Management Office Section Menu ITS Homepage PMO Homepage Project Training About PMO Team Dynamix Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on ITS topics when working remotely due to COVID-19 TeamDynamix tickets during COVID-19 Project Management Team Prioritization Framework for IT Projects Project Management Summit 2020 Kansas Information Technology Office Information Test Page Project Lists PMO Training PMO Trianing PMO Metrics PMO Metrics Submit a Project Request Project List ITS Projects Using WSU's Ticketing System Project Management Summits Portfolio Policy Portfolio Update Kansas Reporting Requirements Project and Ticketing System WSU's Ticketing System is a project and portfolio management (PPM) software solution specifically tailored to accommodate the needs of Higher Education, with a simple yet powerful web-based application. This allows Project Owners to submit and keep track of project requests. The PM ticketing tool builds on a typical project request framework, but delivers significant enhancements to the project request, approval, tracking, and reporting processes. All components of managing a process to the last survey of the stakeholders can be automated. Search the Ticketing System PMO Ticketing Metrics Mertrics are a crucial part of PPM. Measuring project progression and output targets enables PMOs to easily identify accomplishments and areas of improvement. PMO Metrics Project Training Internal and external project concept training is available. Start with understanding the high level picture and benefits of project management by viewing the overviews. Then attend CMD training, "in person" PM training on campus which is very good and economical. PMO Training About PMO The history of Project Management at WSU is fragmented with some department using PM and others none, frequently with different processes and tools. The good news is PM at WSU also has a history of continuous improvement. ITS started PM in 2015 when the first list of everything being requested of ITS was captured with limited data. Who Are We? ITS Home Page Information Technology Services (ITS) is WSU's central IT department. ITS supports the servers and enterprise applications for WSU administration, finance, and student services; operates the university's telecommunications services; and provides technology training and support for most of the departments of the university. Information Technology Services Portfolio Project Management Portfolio Management is selecting the right projects to meet organizational goals, compete more effectively in their markets and respond quicker to environmental changes. Projects drive change, moving the organization to a new and better state thus the need to select the right projects to work comes first. Then managing a project is vital to accomplish more in less time with limited resources. Project Management Benefits include: improved communication, quality, timeliness and staying within budget. "How to do” projects in a consistent way is important to achieve WSU’s strategic goals. Please Note: Sign-in might be required, training can teach you how if you need assistance. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©