Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home CTLgrads Summer Bookclub - Ungrading (2020) by Susan Blum Events Current and Upcoming CTLgrads Summer Bookclub - Ungrading (2020) by Susan Blum Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo June 1, 2022 2:00 PM - 3:15 PM America/New_York Butler Library, 535 W. 114 St., New York, NY 10027 204 Show Map Grades are ubiquitous within education, but are they necessary? Join us every other week for this summer’s CTLgrads Bookclub as we read Susan D. Blum’s 2020 publication, Ungrading: Why rating students undermines learning (and what you can do instead). The book collects theoretical and practical discussions by faculty who have chosen to "ungrade" — that is, faculty who have de-emphasized grading as much as possible in order to focus students on their learning. In the process, our discussions will help us return to our own practices to reconsider how, what, and why we give grades. These sessions are open to graduate students and postdocs, feel free to join any or all sessions throughout the summer! Please read the pages/sections listed below in order to contribute to and learn from this bookclub session. Pre-reading for this session: Pages 1-40 (Introduction through end of Chapter 1) Access Blum’s book on Clio here: https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/15884325 You can access a review of the book here. Participants are expected to read approximately 30 pages prior to each session. During our discussions, we will focus on how to translate the recommendations and ideas into our own teaching practices—in person or online. Blum, S. (2020). Ungrading: Why rating students undermines learning (and what you can do instead). Morgantown, WV: West Virginia UP. NOTES: All CTLgrads Bookclub sessions will be in a HYBRID format, meaning you can join us in-person in Butler 204 or online via Zoom. Zoom session links will be different for each session, so please register for each session you plan to attend in order to receive the correct link. Same-day registrations must be handled by emailing CTLgrads@columbia.edu. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Contact ColumbiaCTL@columbia.edu or 212.854.1692 for accommodations. This event may be photographed. Note, if this is an online event, CTL staff may take screenshots. For concerns, contact ColumbiaCTL@columbia.edu. Contact Information Center for Teaching and Learning CTLgrads@columbia.edu Register on CU Events Upcoming Events Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close