Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Learning at Utah State Utah State University is Utah’s land-grant and space-grant university. Academics at USU Utah State University is here for you. Our small class sizes and hybrid options make for more meaningful opportunities and experiences wherever and however you attend. Goldwater Scholars 36 Most student experiments sent to space #1 Best online programs in the Nation #23 Study abroad opportunities 1000+ Explore Degrees Wondering if Utah State has the degree you want? Our degree finder will let you explore all undergraduate and graduate degrees offered at USU and all locations across the state. Search degrees by keywords Undergraduate Graduate Search Areas of Study USU offers more than 200 programs of undergraduate, graduate and professional study across eight degree-granting colleges. Many of these programs are available at USU locations across the state and online. Undergraduate Programs In 2021, USU tied for the best undergraduate research programs in the U.S., and USU Online ranked in the nation’s top 25 online bachelor’s programs. Some popular options from our undergraduate degrees are Communicative Disorders & Deaf Education, Psychology, Economics, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science, Biology, and Elementary Education. Learn More Undergraduate Majors Minors Alexandra Loftin Mechanical engineering undergrad Alexandra Loftin can add graduate-level research to her resume. She studies how extreme temperature affects materials used in military aircraft engines. Christian Lange In the amber light of USU's Nanoscale Device Lab cleanroom, undergrad researcher Christian Lange uses a sputter coater during the fabrication of carbon nanotubes. Anna Figgins USU undergraduate researcher Anna Figgins displays a bumble bee from the colony she's studying in Biology faculty mentor Karen Kapheim’s lab. Graduate Programs Graduate programs at USU include more than 130 master’s and doctoral degrees. Multiple graduate programs have ranked within top 100 — some even in the top 50 — programs in the U.S., including Audiology, Aerospace and Biological Engineering, Education, and Rehabilitation Counseling. Learn More Master's Doctorates Certificates Forrest Schoessow: Geography’s Foot Soldier With an undergraduate degree in history, Schoessow never thought he’d be studying geography, earth sciences, or natural disasters, let alone teaching about them. But his worldwide travels helped him come to love these subjects. Leslie Forero: Mushroom Expert Forero is a Presidential Doctoral Research Fellow in the S.J. & Jessie E. Quinney College of Natural Resources, studying plant and soil feedbacks. From her research site in Cedar Creek, Minnesota, she’s researching the reasoning behind polycultures excelling over monocultures. Sun Jeon: Social Statistician Sun Jeon currently researches the possible factors of sickness in large populations through statistics. The main issues she examines are obesity, suicide, and mental illness. Professional and Technical Education In 2020, more than 60% of new jobs required more than a high school diploma, and technical certificates and licensures help set USU students apart — with or without a college degree. Learn More Technical Education Degrees Colleges and Schools Utah State University has eight degree-granting colleges and schools, in addition to the School of Graduate Studies, offering a spectrum of undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, and specialized degree programs. Agriculture and Applied Sciences Arts Business Education and Human Services Engineering Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Resources Science World Class Faculty Utah State professors are filled with passion for what they do. Dedicated instructors work closely with students to teach and inspire every day. And they do it well. USU has more award-winning faculty than any other school in Utah with 14 recognized U.S. Professors of the Year. Thanks to their dedication, we now have 36 Goldwater Scholars and seven Rhodes Scholars among our graduates. At a place where conventional wisdom is challenged and re-imagined constantly, USU faculty are also researchers. In the last two years, 63.5% of USU’s professors worked with undergrads on research projects — giving students invaluable hands-on experience with some of the best and brightest. Ben Burger Dr. Ben Burger’s discovery and research of an ancient rock level helped to reveal high carbon dioxide levels in rocks. His research has helped to set safer climate parameters based on the information gleaned from our past. Just like Burger, faculty across the USU statewide system conduct research that has a global impact. Janice Brahney Understanding how microplastics move through global systems is essential to fixing the problem. Dr. Janice Brahney's research focuses on how these invisible pieces of plastic get into the atmosphere, how long they stay aloft, and where in our global system we can expect to find hotspots of microplastic deposition. Prateek Sharma Dr. Prateek Sharma is developing methods of predicting how cheddar cheese responds to shredding based on factors processors can control — important knowledge in an industry where shredded cheddar accounted for $5 billion in sales last year in the United States. Outcomes Our goal is to help you succeed in work and in life. After graduation, Aggies are excelling in their fields of study, in their educational endeavors, and in their communities. By the Number Students making it past their freshman year (average nationwide is 63%) - collegefactual.com 73% Graduation rate (national average 49%) - U.S. Department of Education, College Scorecard 55% Median starting salary of USU alumni - usnews.com $51,600 Median student loan debt for graduate - collegesimply.com $13,610 Internships You don’t have to wait until graduation to get experience in the field. Aggies have access to a world of opportunities like internships with: Adobe Amazon Disney Fidelity Investments G.E. Healthcare General Mills General Motors Goldman Sachs Google Hewlett-Packard Intermountain Healthcare LDS Church Lockheed Martin Macy’s NASA Northrop Grumman U.S. Air Force State of Utah Government Companies that employee Aggies Goldman Sachs Chevron GE Ford Amazon Boeing NVIDIA AECOM AT&T Department of Agriculture Wildlife Service Bureau of Land Management Department of Natural Resources Honeybee Robotic National Weather Service Academic Opportunities Utah State University fosters a wide range of educational opportunities for students, both in the United States and abroad, to facilitate the exchange of knowledge across international boundaries. Community Engagement The Center for Community Engagement empowers students to explore civic identity, develop leadership skills, and address community-identified needs, locally and around the world. With programs such as the Utah Conservation Corps, Community Engaged Learning, or Peace Corps Prep, the opportunities are countless. Center for Community Engagement Study Abroad Take your education outside the classroom and landscapes of Utah. Study Abroad connects you with opportunities in more than 80 countries at over 150 universities. Enhance your education by immersing yourself in a different culture, living like a local, and gaining real world experience throughout the globe. Study Abroad Program Honors Program Honors creates a community of curious, brave, creative, and engaged students who want to put their learning into practice and prepare for the future as they earn a USU degree. Honors students are committed to building a life-changing experience for themselves and others: they want to — and will — change the world. Honors Program Academic Resources Departments and Programs USU fosters an expansive, multidisciplinary academic experience. Colleges and Departments School of Graduate Studies Calendars and Courses Utah State University provides a range of online services and websites to enable you to register for classes, view schedules, and access other general academic information. Academic Calendar University Catalog Register for Classes Registration Calendar Final Examination Schedule Online Learning and Statewide Campuses USU online offers a variety of degree programs completely online, and the Statewide Campuses system has locations across the state of Utah, providing both flexibility and affordability for students. USU Online Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Academic Support Student success is our top priority. USU offers services and resources to help Aggies thrive, from academic advising for majors to career mentors. University Advising Student Academic Support Career Design Center Student Retention & Completion Student Orientation & Transition Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page