Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Explore CUIMC > Campus Map and Directions Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Campus Map and Directions Our campus is located at West 168th Street and Broadway, immediately southeast of the George Washington Bridge, in the Washington Heights neighborhood of northern Manhattan. From here, there is access to many modes of transportation. Download the Columbia University Irving Medical Center campus map (PDF) and see the Google map below. How to Use the Interactive Map: Click the icon at the top left of the map to open up additional layers of the map, including on-campus residences, gender-inclusive restrooms, and sustainable resources spread throughout the campus. You can also read about about accessibility on campus. Directions By Public Transportation Subway: Take the 1, A, or C trains to the 168th Street station. From midtown Manhattan, the A train provides express service. NOTE: The 1 train is not stopping at 168th Street throughout 2019. Bus: Many city buses serve the medical center, including the M-2, 3, 4, 5, and 100. For additional bus and subway information, call the Transit Authority at 718-330-1234. By Car The fastest and most convenient way to reach the medical center by car is to follow directions to the George Washington Bridge and then exit onto Riverside Drive. From there, proceed south and turn left onto West 165th Street (the first left) and then right onto Fort Washington Avenue to the medical center parking facility. From upstate New York and New Jersey: After crossing the George Washington Bridge, follow signs to the Henry Hudson Parkway (also called the West Side Highway), and then to Riverside Drive. From Riverdale and Westchester via the Saw Mill River Parkway: Exit the Henry Hudson Parkway at Riverside Drive, which is immediately past the George Washington Bridge. From Westchester, Connecticut, or the East Side of Manhattan via the Major Deegan, Cross-Bronx Expressway, or Harlem River Drive approaching the George Washington Bridge: Take the Henry Hudson Parkway, stay to the left, and follow signs to Riverside Drive. From the West Side of Manhattan: Take the Henry Hudson Parkway to exit 15 for Riverside Drive South. From NYC Airports For information about transportation options from area airports, view NYCgo. Shuttle Bus Service Our shuttle bus provides transportation between Columbia campuses and Harlem Hospital and to the George Washington Bridge bus terminal. For shuttle routes and schedules, visit the Columbia Transportation website. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top