Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>Students>Code of Conduct Code of Conduct ETHICAL CONDUCT POLICIES As part of its mission and its academic program, Truett Seminary is entitled to prescribe appropriate standards of conduct in addition to, and independent of, those prescribed by the University. Accordingly, Seminary students are expected to conduct themselves in an ethical and moral manner becoming of a minister as that role has been historically understood within Baptist tradition. The Seminary reserves the right to place a student on probation from the Seminary, to suspend or expel a student from the Seminary, to withhold a degree from the student, or to take other action appropriate for the Seminary (including the revocation of denominational tuition funding or scholarships), if the conduct of the student prevents, or will prevent, acceptable representation of Truett Seminary in light of the standards of Baptist tradition, Truett Seminary or Baylor University. Seminary students, as students enrolled in Baylor University, are subject also to general University regulations, including, but not limited to, the Student Disciplinary Policy, Honor Code, Academic Probation, Policy for Information Systems Usage, Home Web Page Policies, Electronic Mail List Policies, Policy Statement on Alcohol or Other Drugs, Policy on Sexual Misconduct, and the Policy on Sexual Harassment. No student may be admitted to or retained in the Seminary who is excluded for disciplinary or other reasons from the University. GENERAL INFORMATION Truett Seminary is a Christian institution whose primary purpose is to train men and women for ministry and theological education. Students who have given evidence of a divine call, have been certified by a local church to prepare for the Christian ministry, and seek entrance into this institution shall conduct themselves in a manner deemed by the seminary as conduct becoming of a Baptist minister as it has been historically understood. Non-Baptist students are held to this level of conduct as well. Students who commit any form of academic misconduct, which includes but is not limited to, plagiarism or cheating, will be subject to the Baylor University Honor Code. Incidents will be reported to the Office of Academic Integrity and students will be sanctioned in accordance with the Honor Code. The process for student appeal is outlined in the Honor Code. The Seminary may take disciplinary action as it deems necessary should the standard of personal and ethical conduct be violated. Violation of this standard shall include, but is not limited to: Academic misconduct including, but not limited to, plagiarism or cheating; Public or private alcohol intoxication; Use of illegal drugs; Abuse of any drugs; Heterosexual misconduct or homosexual behavior; Sexual harassment; Involvement with pornography; Giving false statements to the seminary orally or in writing including, but not limited to, one's application for admission or registration or altering records; Financial malfeasance; Fighting; abusive or vulgar language; Theft of seminary or personal property; Violation of seminary academic regulations and policies; and Disrespect toward a Seminary or University employee. Students involved in a civil infraction are accountable to civil authorities but may also be subject to discipline by the Seminary. ORGANIZATION Students who have violated the ethical conduct code listed above, or who have committed any act that is not congruent with their calling as a minister will have to appear before the Seminary Ethical Conduct Committee. The Seminary Ethical Conduct Committee, comprised of the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, the Director of Student Services, two faculty representatives, and as ex officio, Baylor general counsel, shall administer this Seminary policy. The Committee will exercise Christian concern in its dealings with students, and its actions will be intended to be occasions for learning, personal growth, and professional development. The welfare of the student, of the seminary community, and of the churches are its primary concerns (Gal. 6:1-2). The Committee, or any member thereof, shall provide written notice of the allegations, and of supporting information, to the student of a violation of the requirements of Ethical Conduct. The Committee shall provide the student an opportunity to be heard in person and in writing. The Committee will decide if the student has demonstrated ethical misconduct that would indicate that the student is not prepared to serve in Christian ministry. If the Committee so finds, the Committee shall also determine an appropriate sanction. The Committee shall notify the student in writing of the results. ETHICAL CONDUCT DISCIPLINARY ACTION Actions of the committee include, but are not limited to: Reprimand and disciplinary probation; Temporary suspension with time and terms of re-admission indicated; Indefinite suspension with time and terms of re-admission not indicated; Removal of scholarship assistance; Permanent dismissal; and Any of the above may be noted on the student;s transcript and may be removed at the discretion of the committee. REVIEW A student may seek a review of the decision of the Ethical Conduct Committee through the office of the Dean of the Seminary. It will be the Dean's decision to overturn or support the decision of the committee. Upon a review of the decision of the Ethical Conduct Committee, the Dean will render a final decision from which there will be no further review or appeal. STYLE GUIDE FOR SEMINARY COMMUNITY In preparing papers, reviews, and other written materials, students are required to follow the style guide developed by the Society of Biblical Literature (P.H. Alexander, et al., eds., The SBL Handbook of Style, Peabody, MA; Hendrickson, 1999). Students may access a truncated version at http://www.sbl-site.org/assets/pdfs/pubs/SBLHSsupp2015-02.pdf. This style guide provides the necessary information related to formatting a paper and also provides helpful examples for proper citation of various sources. PLAGIARISM & ACADEMIC DISHONESTY According to the Seminary catalog, all Seminary students, as students enrolled in Baylor University, are subject also to general University regulations, including the Honor Code. Plagiarism is listed among the potential academic violations in the Honor Code. Baylor University has defined plagiarism as "incorporating into one's work offered for course credit passages taken either word for word or in substance from a work of another, unless the student credits the original author and identifies the original author's work with quotation marks, footnotes, or another appropriate written explanation." Students may claim that they did not mean to plagiarize or that it was unintentional. Intent, however, cannot be judged in such matters. If you submit a document that plagiarizes another source, then you have committed plagiarism. It is the responsibility of the student to check and recheck sources to insure that proper citations have been included. If in doubt, consult with your professor about proper procedure. All students must submit papers, exams, and other written materials to Turnitin.com. This computer source will scan your document and determine if there is evidence of plagiarism. This search engine will also provide a citation of the source from which you have taken the the text in question. Please be advised of the following statement: "Students agree that by taking this course, all required papers, exams, class projects or other assignments submitted for credit may be submitted to turnitin.com or similar third parties to review and evaluate for originality and intellectual integrity. A description of the services, terms and conditions of use, and privacy policy of turnitin.com is available on its web site: http://www.turnitin.com. Students understand all work submitted to turnitin.com will be added to its database of papers. Students further understand that if the results of such a review support an allegation of academic dishonesty, the course work in question as well as any supporting materials will be submitted to the Honor Council for investigation and further action." CONSEQUENCES OF PLAGIARISM Students who have submitted plagiarized work will face the following consequences: The student will be penalized in accordance with the Baylor University Honor Code. Possible sanctions include, but are not limited to, failure/grade penalty on the assignment, rewriting the assignment, failure/grade penalty on the test, and failure/grade penalty in the course. The professor is required to report all forms of academic misconduct to the Office of Academic Integrity. All matters of academic dishonesty, including student appeal, will be handled according to the University's Honor Code. If a student commits plagiarism a second time, then according to the Baylor University Honor Code, the Office of Academic Integrity will refer the student's file to the Honor Council. The Honor Council will consider additional sanctions for repeat violations. Possible sanctions include, but are not limited to probation, suspension, and expulsion. Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Handbook Opportunities Professors of Record Deadlines FAQs Mentoring Program Application Mentoring Resources Currently Mentoring Mentoring Resources Mentoring Notebook Submission Form Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift