Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Medicine News Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches this fall with a new host. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ UCF Med School’s Historic Milestone — 10th Graduating Class UCF’s medical school has now graduated 956 doctors and has gained a national reputation for its excellence, innovation and pioneering spirit as it helps build an emerging Medical City at Lake Nona. 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and hospitality. UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and Sciences. 10th Graduating Class Celebrates Accomplishments, Grace, Gratitude UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class gave a gift they hope will remind others the importance of perseverance and compassion. From the Lab to Real Life Three UCF undergraduates are recipients of the esteemed Goldwater Scholarship, validating that their research work could bring groundbreaking results. UCF Student to Conduct Research at Mayo Clinic After Graduation Biomedical sciences student Justin Barthel has spent his time at UCF pursuing excellence in scholarship, research and service while working on his goal of becoming a physician. UCF’s Sherlock Holmes of Microbiology: Salvador Almagro-Moreno UCF’s national expert on flesh-eating bacteria is unraveling the mystery of why some bacteria remain harmless while others go rogue threatening human life. Burnett School Undergrad Earns Research Grant from Cystic Fibrosis Organization Inspired by a family member living with the disease, Sahiba Ahmed aims to find better treatments for cystic fibrosis. UCF-HCA Begin General Surgery Residency in Pensacola The program will accept three residents per year for a total of 15 accredited positions. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida