Skip to Content About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Values of Inclusion Antiracism Task Force News Research News Department Life Awards Listed by Recipient Listed by Category Oral History of Cornell CS Publications Books by Author Books Chronologically Department Timeline The 60's The 70's The 80's The 90's The 00's The 2010's Job Postings Faculty Positions: Ithaca Faculty Positions: New York City Lecturer Position: Ithaca Post-doc Position: Ithaca Staff/Technical Positions Ugrad Course Staff Ithaca Info Internal info Events Calendar Graduation Information Cornell Tech Colloquium Student Colloquium BOOM CS Colloquium Conway-Walker Lecture Series Salton Lecture Series Seminars / Lectures Spring 2022 Artificial Intelligence Seminar Spring 2022 Theory Seminar Big Red Hacks Cornell University High School Programming Contest Game Design Initiative CSMore: The Rising Sophomore Summer Program in Computer Science Explore CS Research Research Night People Chair Faculty Researchers Staff Ph.D. Students M.S. Students M.Eng. Students Ph.D. Alumni Courses List of Courses Enrollment Exams Course and Room Roster CS Advanced Standing Exam Research Architecture Artificial Intelligence Computational Biology Database Systems Graphics Human Interaction Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Programming Languages Robotics Scientific Computing Security Systems and Networking Theory of Computing Vision Undergraduate Admissions Becoming a CS Major Contact UGrad Office Contact Academic Advisor Your First CS Course CS Major Useful Forms Electives Technical Electives CS with Other Majors/Areas Transfer Credits CS Honors Program CPT for International CS Undergrads Graduation Requirements CS Engineering Requirements CS Arts & Sciences Requirements Graduation Information Minors CS Minor Game Design Minor Career Information Co-op Program Placement Report Undergrad Research Independent Research (CS 4999) Computer Science Undergraduate Research Program (CSURP) UGrad Events Undergraduate Learning Center UGrad Course Staff Info M Eng Admissions Prerequisites The Application Process The Review Process Early M.Eng Credit Approval Financial Aid FAQ Academics Degree Requirements Pre-approved Electives The Project FAQ Current Students The Course Enrollment Process Advising Tips FAQ M.Eng Lab MEng Forms Entrepreneurship Cornell Tech Programs Professional Development Graduation Information Contact MEng Office CS MEng Alumni MS Admissions Applicant FAQ Current Students Degree Requirements MS Degree Checklist MS Student Financial Support Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Exam Scheduling Guidelines Special Committee Selection Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information Contact MS Office PhD Admissions Ph.D. Applicant FAQ Non-Degree Application Guidelines Graduate Housing Ph. D. Visit Day Current Students Field of Computer Science Ph.D. Student Handbook Ph.D. Requirements Business Card Policy Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Cornell Tech Curricular Practical Training Exam Scheduling Guidelines Fellowship Opportunities Field A Exam Summary Form Graduate School Forms Ph.D. Student Financial Support Special Committee Selection The Outside Minor Requirement Travel Funding Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information CS Graduate Minor Outreach Opportunities Parental Accommodation Policy Special Masters Student Groups Student Spotlights Contact PhD Office Search form Search Game Design Minor You are here Home < Undergraduate < Minors The Game Design Minor is available for undergraduate students with a strong interest in Game Design as an extension on their major studies and future academic and professional careers. The core of this Minor is CS/INFO 3152 and CS/INFO 4152 (Intro & Advanced Computer Game Architecture) or CS 4154 (Analytics-driven Game Design), and four additional courses that can range from Graphics and Art, the Psychology of Gaming, and Human-Computer Interaction. Offered by: The Department of Computer Science Administered by: The Department of Computer Science; 5th floor Rhodes Hall Contact Person: Nicole Roy or Ryan Marchenese, 5th floor Rhodes Hall, ugrad@cs.cornell.edu Eligibility: Undergraduate students in Agriculture and Life Sciences; Architecture, Art, and Planning; Arts and Sciences*; Engineering*, SC Johnson College of Business; Human Ecology; Industrial and Labor Relations may participate in the Minor. *Computer Science majors cannot apply CS/ENGRD 2110/2112 or courses taken under the CS-rubric (with the sole exception of CS 4152 or CS 4154) to the Additional Courses requirement of the Game Design Minor. Educational Objectives: This minor is for students who anticipate that game design will have a prominent role to play in their academic and professional career. For more information: Visit the website for the Game Design Initiative at Cornell. To Apply for a Game Design Minor/Concentration: Once you have completed all of the courses for the minor, or are in your final semester of study and finishing up the minor, you are eligible to have your minor requirements certified by the Department of Computer Science. Download the form Application to Certify Completion of a Minor. This is a fillable PDF form. Submit the completed Game Design Minor form to nsr1@cornell.edu and krm232@cornell.edu, via https://sft.cornell.edu/ (secure file transfer)). Minor forms must be submitted prior to graduation. Requirements To complete the minor/concentration, the student must take at least six (6) courses (18 credit minimum) chosen as follows: Required Courses CS/INFO 3152: Introduction to Computer Game Architecture/Design CS/INFO 4152: Advanced Topics in Computer Game Architecture/Design or[{CS/INFO 4154: Analytics-driven Game Design] Additional Courses - Choose four courses (outside of your major department) from the following lists: Art All ART classes below the 4000 level may be used for this requirement. Computer Science Any CS course 2000 or above that is immediately relevant to the production of computer games may count towards this requirement. This includes BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO: • CS 2110/2112: Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures • CS 4450: Introduction to Computer Networks • CS 4620: Introduction to Computer Graphics • CS 4700: Foundations of Artificial Intelligence • CS 4740: Natural Language Processing • CS 4780: Machine Learning for Intelligent Systems • CS 5414: Distributed Computing Principles • CS 5625: Interactive Computer Graphics Information Science Any INFO course 2000 above that addresses digital cultures, the ethics of technology, or human-computer interaction may count towards the requirement. This includes BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO: • INFO 2450: Communication and Technology • INFO 3140: Computational Psychology • INFO 3200: New Media and Society • INFO 3450: Human-Computer Interaction Design • INFO 3561: Computing Cultures • INFO 3660: History and Theory of Digital Art • INFO 4240: Designing Technology for Social Impact • INFO 4275: Novel Interaction Techniques • INFO 4301: Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication • INFO 4320: Introduction to Rapid Prototyping and Physical Computing • INFO 4400: Advanced Human-Computer Interaction Design Music Any music class that is NOT classified as a performance class may be used for this requirement. For a list of excluded classes, see: https://music.cornell.edu/courses#performance-courses Performing and Media Arts Any PMA course that trains students in the techniques applicable to video or digital media production may be used for this requirement. This includes BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO: • PMA 3531: Screenwriting • PMA 3533: Screen and Story: Script Analysis • PMA 3614: Creative Character Design • PMA 3631: Project: Terrarium Imagined; World Building Through Allegory • PMA 3680: Sound Design • PMA 3880: Fundamentals of Directing Psychology Any psychology course 2000 or above that is classified as perception, cognition and development (PCD) may be used for this requirement. For a list of acceptable courses, see: https://psychology.cornell.edu/major Other Departments Other departments may offer courses that are directly relevant to game design. Because of the transient and/or scattered nature of these courses, those courses are typically accepted for the minor on a petition basis. Examples of classes that fall in this category are: • ARTH 3650: History and Theory of Digital Art • ASIAN 3315: Game Studies and Japan • DEA 3510: Human Factors and Inclusive Design Academic Standards: A letter grade of C or better for each course in the minor, except that for courses taken in Spring 2020, either a C- or an S will satisfy this criterion. Note: Computer Science majors *cannot* apply CS/ENGRD 2110/2112 or courses taken under the CS-rubric (with the sole exception of CS 4152 or CS 4154) to the Additional Courses requirement of the Game Design Minor. [ ] = course not currently offered About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Values of Inclusion Antiracism Task Force News Research News Department Life Awards Listed by Recipient Listed by Category Oral History of Cornell CS Publications Books by Author Books Chronologically Department Timeline The 60's The 70's The 80's The 90's The 00's The 2010's Job Postings Faculty Positions: Ithaca Faculty Positions: New York City Lecturer Position: Ithaca Post-doc Position: Ithaca Staff/Technical Positions Ugrad Course Staff Ithaca Info Internal info Events Calendar Graduation Information Cornell Tech Colloquium Student Colloquium BOOM CS Colloquium Conway-Walker Lecture Series Salton Lecture Series Seminars / Lectures Spring 2022 Artificial Intelligence Seminar Spring 2022 Theory Seminar Big Red Hacks Cornell University High School Programming Contest Game Design Initiative CSMore: The Rising Sophomore Summer Program in Computer Science Explore CS Research Research Night People Chair Faculty Researchers Staff Ph.D. Students M.S. Students M.Eng. Students Ph.D. Alumni Courses List of Courses Enrollment Exams Course and Room Roster CS Advanced Standing Exam Research Architecture Artificial Intelligence Computational Biology Database Systems Graphics Human Interaction Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Programming Languages Robotics Scientific Computing Security Systems and Networking Theory of Computing Vision Undergraduate Admissions Becoming a CS Major Contact UGrad Office Contact Academic Advisor Your First CS Course CS Major Useful Forms Electives Technical Electives CS with Other Majors/Areas Transfer Credits CS Honors Program CPT for International CS Undergrads Graduation Requirements CS Engineering Requirements CS Arts & Sciences Requirements Graduation Information Minors CS Minor Game Design Minor Career Information Co-op Program Placement Report Undergrad Research Independent Research (CS 4999) Computer Science Undergraduate Research Program (CSURP) UGrad Events Undergraduate Learning Center UGrad Course Staff Info M Eng Admissions Prerequisites The Application Process The Review Process Early M.Eng Credit Approval Financial Aid FAQ Academics Degree Requirements Pre-approved Electives The Project FAQ Current Students The Course Enrollment Process Advising Tips FAQ M.Eng Lab MEng Forms Entrepreneurship Cornell Tech Programs Professional Development Graduation Information Contact MEng Office CS MEng Alumni MS Admissions Applicant FAQ Current Students Degree Requirements MS Degree Checklist MS Student Financial Support Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Exam Scheduling Guidelines Special Committee Selection Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information Contact MS Office PhD Admissions Ph.D. Applicant FAQ Non-Degree Application Guidelines Graduate Housing Ph. D. Visit Day Current Students Field of Computer Science Ph.D. Student Handbook Ph.D. Requirements Business Card Policy Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Cornell Tech Curricular Practical Training Exam Scheduling Guidelines Fellowship Opportunities Field A Exam Summary Form Graduate School Forms Ph.D. Student Financial Support Special Committee Selection The Outside Minor Requirement Travel Funding Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information CS Graduate Minor Outreach Opportunities Parental Accommodation Policy Special Masters Student Groups Student Spotlights Contact PhD Office NetID Login (internal use only) Contact Us © 2022 Cornell University 402 Gates Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.