Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Fellowships and Research [email protected] Fellowships and Research [email protected] Gaither Junior Fellows Program Deadline 12/12/2022 Eligibility Seniors Contact [email protected] Website http://carnegieendowment.org/about/jr-fellows/ Description The James C. Gaither Junior Fellows Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace is a private, nonprofit educational organization in Washington dedicated to advancing cooperation between nations and promoting active international engagement by the United States. Founded in 1910, its work is nonpartisan and dedicated to achieving practical results. Through research, publishing, convening, and on occasion, creating new institutions and international networks, the Endowment associates shape fresh policy approaches. Their interests span geographic regions and the relations among governments, business, international organizations and civil society, focusing on the economic, political, and technological forces driving global change. James C. Gaither Junior Fellows work as research assistants to the Carnegie Endowment’s senior associates at Carnegie in Washington, DC. Eligibility Brown is invited to nominate two candidates to the national competition. Seniors and those who have graduated within the past academic year are eligible; people who have begun graduate studies are not eligible. Applicants should have completed significant coursework and have experience in international affairs, political science, economics, history, Russian, or Chinese studies. There are no citizenship requirements; however, all applicants must be eligible to work in the United States. Finalists are invited for personal interviews by representatives of the Carnegie Endowment in March. Benefits Gathier Junior fellows are currently paid a gross salary of $3,291.67 per month for approximately one year. A generous benefits package is also provided. The monthly salary is subject to federal, state and local taxes. Applying James. C. Gathier Junior Fellows materials - including application and list of topics. Applicants must submit by December 12, 2022, the following application materials. The application form (in above packet) A one to two-page resume including the applicant’s telephone number, address, e-mail address, extracurricular activities, and work experience A one-page essay on why the applicant would like to become a Junior Fellow An essay of no more than three typewritten, double-spaced pages on one policy question. The questions can be found in the above link. Transcript of undergraduate records. Two (2) letters of recommendation, at least one of which should be from a faculty member in the department of the applicant’s concentration. Please have letters addressed to Linda Dunleavy, Associate Dean of the College for Fellowships. Applicants will apply through UFunds, Brown's online application system. Recipients 2016-2017 Katherine Pollock, '16 Home People Exploring Fellowships Find a Fellowship Prepare Your Application For Faculty and Advisers: Writing Letters of Recommendation Fellowship FAQ News Resources Print this Page Share this Page Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-1000 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Dean of the College Swearer Center CareerLAB International Programs The Watson Institute