Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Industrial Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Industrial engineering is all about systems — people, environment and equipment. Industrial engineers design how everybody and everything works — from airport security checkpoints to emergency evacuations — in order to help companies operate effectively and competitively. But it’s more than just building systems. As an industrial engineering major, you’ll learn how this diverse discipline will allow you flexibility in your future career path. We teach you how to manage people, machines and systems so you will be prepared to be the next-generation engineer or executive. Industrial engineering is one of the fastest growing and most sought after professions in the world, and our graduates work in industries from manufacturing to service to banking. FAST FACTS Industrial engineering is one of the fastest-growing engineering fields, with projected growth of 10 percent from 2016 to 2026. Banks, hospitals, manufacturing and warehousing industries and government agencies all depend on the skills of industrial engineers. Our graduates have found positions with companies such as BMW, General Electric, Bank of America, ExxonMobil, Fluor, Boeing and Microsoft. The industrial engineering profession has the highest percentage of women of all engineering disciplines. On the Clemson admissions application, you'll apply as a general engineering major. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you’ll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. If you decide to major in industrial engineering, you’ll take classes in logistics, transportation, system safety and supply chain design. You’ll spend your days learning how to design, implement and improve the complex systems that are vital to our society. Hands-on learning begins the moment you step into your first industrial engineering class where you’ll complete a project for an on-campus client such as parking services or Littlejohn Coliseum. Clemson offers on- and off-campus research opportunities in state-of-the-art labs, supporting research in supply chain optimization and logistics, human factors and safety in health care, and other complex environments. Six Sigma Certificate Program The Six Sigma Certificate program requires students to specifically complete IE 3600, IE 3610 and IE 4620. The Six Sigma Certificate will be noted on an undergraduate student’s transcript when the student has completed all the requirements. Curriculum Industrial Engineering, B.S. Industrial Engineering: Computing Emphasis, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Management Mathematical Sciences Military Leadership Similar Majors Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) Packaging Science (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Industrial engineering students work on plenty of hands-on projects and take advantage of numerous cooperative education opportunities to help them redesign how everybody works. In fact, your very first industrial engineering course project will have you working for an on-campus client. Your capstone project will allow you to apply everything you’ve learned to a project for an off-campus client. Co-op Students who decide to participate in a co-op have the opportunity to spend up to a year working for companies such as BMW, Delta Airlines, GE Power Systems and Michelin.Learn More » Facilities Freeman Hall’s $10 million addition, which opened in fall 2015, includes 15 faculty offices, two large student spaces, three conference rooms, four administration offices and a 100-seat auditorium. Honor Top students are invited to join Clemson's chapter of the industrial engineering honor society, Alpha Pi Mu. Members promote the discipline while creating friendships with their peers and connections to the field's top professionals. IISE Each Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers student chapter provides a learning and networking environment. Meet other students and network with professional members from the local professional chapter. Join Come together with students from other majors to learn about health care improvement and patient safety as part of The Clemson University Chapter of the IHI Open School for Health Professions. Network, volunteer and take IHI courses online. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Creative Inquiry PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Process Improvement Engineer Milliken & Company Business Technology Analyst Deloitte Manufacturing Associate Sonoco Industrial Engineer The Boeing Company Engineer I FedEx Ground RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Industrial Engineering Georgia Tech M.Eng. Industrial and Systems University of Florida M.Eng. Engineering Management Cornell University Master of Health Administration Medical University of South Carolina M.A. Analytical Political Economy Duke University COMMON CAREER AREAS Industrial Operations and Supply Chain Analyst Usability Analyst Manufacturing Management Information Engineering Computer Systems Design and Development Quality and Health Care Analyst Production Sales and Marketing Management Consulting Research and Development Teaching Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Industrial Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) Packaging Science (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.)