Skip to main content Apply Now Calendar Newsroom Contact Us Advancing graduate education. Enhancing the graduate student experience. About Staff Diversity Advisory Boards & Councils Newsroom Calendar Ombuds Office/Conflict Resolution Graduate Council GAAC Facts & Figures Publications & Reports GradTerp Exchange Admissions Choose Maryland Student Stories List of Programs (A to Z) Admissions Requirements Application Process International Admissions Non-Degree Admissions Admissions Fee Waiver Eligibility Admissions FAQs Graduate Programs Research & Professional Programs All Graduate Programs Admissions Requirements Funding Assistantship Information Tuition & Fees Fellowship Information External Fellowships Student Fellowships & Awards Faculty & Staff Awards Workshops Policies Admissions Policies Academic Policies Financial Policies Registration Policies Assistantship Policies Fellowship Policies Graduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Archive Students Deadlines Professional and Career Development Forms Funding New Students International Students Register & Enroll Academic Progress Opportunities for Success Interdisciplinary Opportunities Student Employment Student Support Services Health & Wellness Getting Involved Course-related Policies Graduate Academic Counselor Graduate Pathways Ombuds Office/Conflict Resolution Report Abuse Terp Tax Faculty & Staff Admissions Toolkit Forms Graduate Catalog Faculty & Staff Awards Faculty Handbook Red Folder Graduate Council International Initiatives Postdocs Stipend Levels Graduate Learning Outcomes Assessment Professional Development Advances Remote Defense Request Request for Report of Examining Committee Operating Reports Course Related Policies Alumni & Friends Alumni Spotlights Giving Opportunities Giving Process Stay In Touch Update Your Information Doctoral Alumni Career Services Doctoral Careers Advisory Board UMD-DOCNET Alumni News News & Spotlights News Spotlights Announcements Press Releases In the News For News Media Magazine Publications & Reports Photos & Videos Events Spotlights Alumnus Spotlight: Debdatta Sinha Roy's Post-Grad Journey News Do Not Delay! Make Your TerpTax Appointment Today! News Graduate School Welcomes New Associate Dean News Free PDM Services for GradTerps News Graduate School Welcomes New Assistant Dean/COO News TerpTax is Open for Spring 2022! News gradSERU Results Are Now Available News Fall 2021 Deadline and Policy Reminders News Virtual Awards Celebration News TerpTax Summer Appointments Available News Vaccine Update for Students Abroad News Spring 2021 Deadline Reminder for Graduate Students Spotlights GradTerps Student Spotlight: Luanjiao Aggie Hu Spotlights Harmony in Action: A Day with the Collington Artists-in-Residence Spotlights The Job Search: Rodolfo Tello, PhD By the Numbers Explore Facts & Figures 600+ doctoral degrees conferred annually $12M+ in student and faculty support provided annually by the Graduate School 200+ graduate programs offered at Maryland 48 graduate programs in Top 25 on US News & World Report's list of best graduate schools 10,500+ postbaccalaureate scholars at Maryland representing all 50 states and 114 countries Announcements Academic Deadlines and Reminders for Spring 2022 February 24, 2022 Mental Health Support Services for GradTerps February 16, 2022 Process for Unvaccinated International Students June 22, 2021 More Announcements Upcoming Deadlines View All DeadlinesEvents Calendar July 8, 2022 Nomination of Thesis Committee Master’s Thesis Students: Nomination of Thesis Committee Form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). July 18, 2022 Application for Graduation Master’s and Doctoral Students: Final date to submit the Application for Graduation in order to graduate this semester/term. Post-Baccalaureate Certificate Students: Final date to submit the Application for Graduation to Diploma Services (diploma@umd.edu) in order to graduate this semester/term. July 29, 2022 Dissertation Forms Doctoral Students: Final date to submit dissertation via ETD System. Dissertation directors to submit signed Report of Examining Committee form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). August 12, 2022 Thesis Forms Master's Thesis Students: Final date to submit thesis via ETD System. Thesis directors to submit signed Report of Examining Committee form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). August 25, 2022 Master's Programs/Post-Baccalaureate Certificates Graduate Program Staff: Final date to submit the Approved Program Form and U.achieve audit to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). September 12, 2022 Application for Graduation Master’s and Doctoral Students: Final date to submit the Application for Graduation in order to graduate this semester/term. Post-Baccalaureate Certificate Students: Final date to submit the Application for Graduation to Diploma Services (diploma@umd.edu) in order to graduate this semester/term. September 23, 2022 Nomination of Dissertation Committee Form Doctoral Students: Final date to submit Nomination of Dissertation Committee Form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). October 3, 2022 Nomination of Thesis Committee Master’s Thesis Students: Nomination of Thesis Committee Form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). Committee form must be submitted at least 6 weeks before the scheduled defense. November 11, 2022 Dissertation Forms Doctoral Students: Final date to submit dissertation via ETD System. Dissertation directors to submit signed Report of Examining Committee form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). December 7, 2022 Thesis Forms Master's Thesis Students: Final date to submit thesis via ETD System. Thesis directors to submit signed Report of Examining Committee form to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). January 6, 2023 Master's Programs/Post-Baccalaureate Certificates Graduate Program Staff: Final date to submit the Approved Program Form and U.achieve audit to the Office of the Registrar (registrar-graduate@umd.edu). The Graduate School, University of Maryland 2123 Lee Building, 7809 Regents Drive College Park, MD 20742 301-405-3644 / gradschool@umd.edu Contact Us Provide Feedback Web Accessibility Stay Connected © 2022 University of Maryland All Rights Reserved