Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Research Seeking Knowledge, Seeking Solutions Our researchers are making discoveries that have the potential to increase knowledge about our world and lead to benefits to society. Research Areas Engineering & Applied Science . Learn More Humanities . Learn More Natural Sciences . Learn More Social Sciences . Learn More Research Resources Office of the Dean for Research . Services include: Research and Project Administration, Technology Licensing, Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations, Research Integrity and Assurance Laboratory Animal Resources. Learn About the Office Reading up on Research . Our research magazine features stories and news from across the disciplines. We highlight research advances, initiatives, projects and honors from faculty, postdoctoral researchers, graduate students and undergraduates. Read Discovery: Research at Princeton University Research News View All Research News World Series of Birding title goes to a Princeton student team . The Princeton Tiger Shrikes started the competition in the pre-dawn hours at a marsh near the New York border and finished at the Cape May shore, tallying 205 species. Read more Princeton Research Day returns, fully in-person for the first time in three years . The 7th annual edition of the popular event showcased innovation and curiosity-driven research across disciplines at Princeton. The event drew three-minute video submissions from over 120 presenters on subjects as disparate as fish migration and traditional medicine healers. Read more How mosquito brains encode human odor so they can seek us out . Carolyn “Lindy” McBride, an assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology and neuroscience at Princeton, led research that sought the answer. "We sort of dove into the brain of the mosquito and asked, ‘What can you smell? What lights up your brain?' " Read more Princeton partners with UNCF and HBCUs to expand research and innovation Read more How to fix Social Security? It's political but it can be done Read more Unchecked global emissions on track to initiate mass extinction of marine life Read more Health, environment and imaging are focus of this year’s Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund grants Read more External Partnerships Princeton faculty members collaborate with colleagues throughout the world to carry out important, cutting-edge research and scholarship. Celeste Nelson (center), a professor of chemical and biological engineering at Princeton, worked with a research team including Victor Varner and Mei Fong-Pang to examine how fluid pressure helps control the rate of development of embryonic lungs. Collaboration Is Key It is through collaborations that Princeton's faculty transform laboratory research into real-world projects that can make a difference to society. Learn more about: Corporate Engagement Technology Licensing Interdisciplinary Approach Princeton researchers collaborate across academic fields and across the globe. The campus is home to numerous interdisciplinary research collaborations and centers. Learn More Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ Facilities and Labs Learn More From high-performance computing to electron microscopy, the University provides researchers with access to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment. Spotlights Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice