Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Event Management Program at a Glance Program Minor College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Tourism, Events and Attraction In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. This minor is well suited and intended for students who have interest in the field of the performing arts (Music, Arts, and Theater). The Event Management minor is geared to expose and increase students' knowledge base of the growing hospitality and event industries. This program teaches students how to strategically promote various types of events and how to identify potential risk while planning and executing an event(s). Students will be able to individualize their minor by the option to choose two restricted event management electives focused toward their career interest. Admission Requirements Not open to majors of the Rosen College of Hospitality Management. Minor Requirements None Prerequisite Courses Students who have not completed the prerequisites should contact the Instructor for consent to enroll. View Full Description Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Minors Event Management University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies × This minor is well suited and intended for students who have interest in the field of the performing arts (Music, Arts, and Theater). The Event Management minor is geared to expose and increase students' knowledge base of the growing hospitality and event industries. This program teaches students how to strategically promote various types of events and how to identify potential risk while planning and executing an event(s). Students will be able to individualize their minor by the option to choose two restricted event management electives focused toward their career interest. Admission Requirements Not open to majors of the Rosen College of Hospitality Management. Minor Requirements None Prerequisite Courses Students who have not completed the prerequisites should contact the Instructor for consent to enroll. Required Courses (12 Credit Hours) HFT 2750 - The Event Industry Credit Hours: 3 HFT 3443 - Event Technology Credit Hours: 3 HFT 3512 - Event Promotion Credit Hours: 3 HFT 3670 - Hospitality and Event Risk Management Credit Hours: 3 Restricted Electives (6 Credit Hours)Select Two: (6 Credit Hours) HFT 3357 - Sport and Club Event Operations Credit Hours: 3 HFT 3519 - Event Services Credit Hours: 3 HFT 3523 - Event Sales Credit Hours: 3 (Prerequisite for HFT 3523 is HFT 3519) HFT 3798 - Fairs and Festivals Credit Hours: 3 HFT 4542 - Strategic Event Design Credit Hours: 3 HFT 4561 - Destination Marketing & Management Credit Hours: 3 HFT 4795 - Entertainment Arts and Events Credit Hours: 3 HFT 4796 - International Events Credit Hours: 3 HFT 4866C - Exploring Wines of the World Credit Hours: 3 Foreign Language Requirements None Total Undergraduate Credit Hours Required: 18 Other Requirements A minimum GPA of 2.0 in all courses used to satisfy the minor. At least 12 credit hours used in the minor must be earned at UCF within the Rosen College. No credit by exam (TSD, Military credit) may be used in the minor. Final Exams will be given during Final Exam week only. No substitutions are allowed for any of the required minor courses. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida