Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services First-generation Students First-generation Students Expand all Collapse all Our Team Debra Domenech, Senior Psychologist Being the first in family to attend college presents a multitude of unique circumstances and challenges. While exciting and empowering, it can also present struggles with issues of finding role models and mentors, raise questions about identities, potentially disrupt existing relationships and affect feelings of self-esteem and self-worth. When working with others who are first generation, Debra attends to how these issues are negotiated and how they influence emotional wellbeing in the context of academia, work and interpersonal relationships. Debra is fluent in Spanish. Anne Goldfield, Psychologist and Associate Director for Outreach Anne was the first in her family to attend college. Through her interactions with first-gen students on campus, Anne has developed a deep appreciation for the strengths, as well as the many challenges along the way, of being the first in one’s family to attend college. At Columbia, Anne has collaborated with student groups and administrators to provide opportunities for first gen students to connect with each other and to gain support through hearing what other first-in-family students have experienced. She is committed to maximizing access to resources for all students. Doreen Han-Faver, Psychiatrist Doreen is a first-generation immigrant who grew up in Taiwan and New York. She worked for many years in a mental health clinic in Chinatown helping children and adolescents and their families who had difficulties bridging cultural and generational differences. She understands the challenges many students face in reconciling their families and cultures of origin with the more mainstream American college culture. Doreen is fluent in Mandarin. Diana Morrobel, Senior Psychologist Diana is a bilingual (Spanish/English), bicultural, first-generation college graduate. From her early work as a high school mentor to her years working at a large mental health clinic that primarily served recent immigrants, Diana has gained experience helping individuals navigate the transition and challenges that some students may face as first-generation college students. Diana recognizes the importance of providing each student with support that meets their needs while being respectful of their cultural context and identities. Annette Santiago-España, Psychologist and Associate Director for Eating Disorders Team The first in her family to graduate from college, Annette is a graduate of the Educational Opportunity Fund program at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Soon after graduation, Annette worked for the EOF program for four years at Cumberland County College in South Jersey. She served as a career specialist encouraging first-generation high school and college students to pursue their lifelong goals. Annette finds her work with first generation college students incredibly fulfilling. She recognizes the unique challenges these students face and is aware of the profound difference having support can make in the lives of these students. Annette is fluent in Spanish. Support Groups From time to time, when there is student interest, we are pleased to offer support groups and other special programs for first-generation as well as undocumented students. We also welcome hearing from student groups who would like to partner with us in developing new programs to serve the FLIP community. Contact Associate Director for Outreach Anne Goldfield for more info. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Physical Health and Wellbeing Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close