Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites About Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift KU Medical Center COVID-19 Information At the University of Kansas Medical Center, the health and well-being of our students, faculty, staff and community are of the utmost importance. The fight against the novel coronavirus and COVID-19 has called on all of us to adapt to new ways of working and learning. Our schools of Health Professions, Medicine and Nursing have taken tremendous steps to ensure continuity in our educational programs and research efforts. For information about patient care, please visit The University of Kansas Health System. Campus Guidelines Mask Policy Beginning April 27, 2022, masks are optional on KU Medical Center campuses in Kansas City, Salina and Wichita, except in specifically identified areas. Masks remain required in: health system clinics, non-health system clinics, the student counseling center the student health center, clinical research spaces and research spaces with human subjects. The University of Kansas Health System continues to require masks for all individuals in all clinical and non-clinical spaces within health system facilities. Campus Visitors The KU Medical Center Educational Experience program's research experiences and clinical shadowing experiences have been reinstated. For eligibility requirements and application information, visit the program KEE Program website. Additional Information The University of Kansas Health System Kansas Department of Health and Environment Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Health System COVID-19 Hub The University of Kansas Health System offers information on vaccines, testing, patient care and much more. 55-Word Stories An opportunity for our community members to express their emotions and experiences related to the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 Resource Center Students, faculty and staff can access complete information regarding policies, resources and more on the myKUMC intranet. KU Medical Center COVID-19 Headlines Long COVID examined in national study as first trial participants enroll at KU Medical Center KU alumnus Barney Graham named Federal Employee of Year for vaccine research Research at KU Medical Center explores effects of obesity on health and COVID-19 Professor pivots from Kenya to Kansas (and back again) to serve global health needs in pandemic See all news KU Medical Center COVID-19 Headlines Thousands of COVID home tests sent to 20 Kansas counties as part of COPE, a $13 million grant to improve community health Read more Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.