Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu International Student Services Admissions New Students Current Students Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact New International Students I-20 Process I-20 SEVIS Transfer Change of Visa Status Insurance Requesting F-1 Visa Arriving & the I-94 Form Registering for Courses Funding Take Action Apply Now Events/News FAQs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home International Student Services New International Students I-20 Process I-20 Process The checklist below is for any individual intending to enter the U.S. as an F-1 visa holding student. If you are already inside the U.S. with an F-1 visa and form I-20 for a different school, please visit our page for I-20 SEVIS transfer. To request for an I-20 please click on the button below: I-20 Application 1. Complete all academic requirements for admission to a degree program. This step is handled exclusively by the Admissions Office for undergraduates or the Graduate Admissions section of the Graduate School for students pursuing Masters or Ph.D. programs. Please go to www.memphis.edu and choose the "Apply Now" link to get started. 2. Upload your affidavit of support form with banker's signature, or bank letter detailing funding, graduate assistant offer letters (if any), government sponsorship letter, or any combination thereof to your I-20 application. Note that government sponsorship letters must specifically mention The University of Memphis as the designated school for the student, and government sponsorship letters must cover one full year (12 months) of student costs if they will be used as the sole source of funding. Locate the affidavit of support here: https://www.memphis.edu/admissions/pdfs/affidavit.pdf 3. Upload a scanned copy of your passport's data page, showing your name, date of birth, and passport expiration date to your I-20 application. Note that F-1 visa holders are required to maintain a passport that is at least 6 months from expiration while inside the U.S. 4. Our office is required to collect an address that is outside of the U.S. and that is an actual physical location. Even if we send the I-20 to a postal box at a later time, we must report an address that is not a P.O. Box, but is instead the location of your residence. 5. If any spouse or underage child will come with you as F-2 dependents, please indicate this in your I-20 application. Note: If your dependents will come to the U.S. after you have received your I-20, please complete the 'Add New Dependent' form. Once items 1-5 are completed, our office will process your I-20. You will receive an e-mail message asking you to confirm all data on your I-20 is accurate, to be certain of details such as spelling of the name and accuracy of the date of birth. You will also be required to provide information for shipping the form I-20. If you already have the F-1 visa, please go to I-20 SEVIS Transfer-In information page. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/18/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.