Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Emergency and Crisis Management (MECM) Train for Crises at the No. 2 Emergency and Homeland Security Graduate Program in the Nation Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Public Administration, Schl of 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Help Mitigate the Risk of Natural and Man-Made Disasters in Your Community The Master of Emergency Management and Crisis (MECM) program prepares you to practice as a highly trained practitioner in the emergency management field through the development of core competencies, from emergency preparedness and planning to legal and ethical decision making to disaster response and recovery. The frequency of human-induced and natural disasters has dramatically increased since the 1990s. Florida is the fifth highest state with 69 major disaster declarations between 1953 and 2016, as reported by the Congressional Research Service in 2017. For communities to be prepared for, respond to, recover from and mitigate these disasters, an educated workforce of emergency management specialists is required. In this program, you’ll learn and demonstrate the competencies required to lead and manage in this dynamic and complex profession. Throughout your coursework, you’ll complete 10 core classes and two electives. The curriculum emphasizes a strong ethical, practical and theory-based foundation of emergency and crisis management. You will also have an opportunity to gain hands-on experience through an internship, as well as a capstone course that combines all of the knowledge and skills you’ve gained throughout the program. Whether you’re currently working in the industry or looking to break into it, this program prepares you to secure management roles in emergency and crisis management for companies such as the City of Orlando, Lockheed Martin, National Military Command Center, Reedy Creek Improvement District, Seminole County Office of Emergency Management and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Complete the fully online emergency and crisis management program in two to three years, depending on the number of courses you enroll in each semester. Plus, the flexibility and convenience of online courses allow you to learn when and where you want so you’re able to balance work, school and life. Request Information Highlights Ranked the No. 2 graduate program in Emergency Management and Homeland Security by U.S. News and World Report in 2021. Only 11 percent of all universities in the U.S., including UCF, have a hot emergency operations center, meaning the EOC is activated and ready to go at all times. The demand for emergency management directors is expected to grow 4 percent through 2029. Emergency management directors earn an average salary around $74,000. Application Deadlines Fall June 1 Spring November 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Hazard Analysis and Disaster Planning Examine geospatial aspects of hazards analysis and planning with reference to disaster preparedness, recovery, mitigation and resilience. International Emergency and Crisis Management Explore the world of crises, disasters and emergencies. They devastate, injure and kill, wherever they occur, but when they strike the least among us, the devastation, the injuries and the fatalities increase exponentially. You’ll be expected to complete this course with a well-defined mental map — a map that will guide your understanding of new crises, disasters and emergencies as they increase in frequency and intensity around the world. We want you to be both engaged and thoughtful observers and participants in the WORLD of emergency management. Environmental Planning and Policy Learn the underlying concepts, approaches and critical issues in the field of environmental planning and management. Environmental planning processes will be examined from various political/ geographical scales and within a policy content. Managing Emergencies and Crises Analyze and integrate the basic crisis management steps: hazard mitigation, disaster preparedness, disaster response and recovery — building analytical and practical skills necessary to perform effectively in homeland security/emergency management-related positions. View All Emergency and Crisis Management Courses You’ll Take Emergency and crisis management is dynamic and requires an all-hazards, whole community approach. The COVID-19 pandemic and growing number of cybersecurity attacks on all levels of governments are two of the many hazards our community needs to prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate. As technology evolves, the risks we face continue to evolve and change drastically. This degree provides a solid foundation for current and future leaders to face common crises and disasters as well as those we have yet to experience.” — Claire Knox, Ph.D., Emergency and Crisis Management Academic Program Coordinator, UCF Emergency & Crisis Management Skills You’ll Learn Develop plans and strategies to help organizations and communities prepare, respond and recover from disasters. Mitigate potential hazards caused by natural and human-induced disasters. Facilitate the education of organizations and communities on emergency preparation and response best practices. Communicate with the public before, during and after a crisis. Lead in an ethical and culturally competent way. Career Opportunities Director of Emergency Management Emergency Preparedness Coordinator Crisis Manager/Lead Emergency Management Coordinator Health and Safety Specialist Disaster Recovery Specialist Admission Requirements The admissions process for the Master of Emergency and Crisis Management degree at UCF begins with the receipt of the general UCF graduate application requirements. From there, you will need to provide the various program application requirements. Please note that this program is offered completely online, so computer skills and internet access are necessary to take the courses. Admission to this program is competitive. We encourage you to apply early and provide all requested materials by the established deadline. Materials received after the deadline may not be considered. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, you must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended showing a GPA of at least 3.0 Resume A statement of interest Three letters of recommendation from former professors or professional colleagues Request Information College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Masters Emergency and Crisis Management (MECM) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Emergency and Crisis Management (MECM) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Emergency Management and Crisis (MECM) is designed to prepare individuals to practice as highly trained practitioners in the emergency management field through the development of core competencies including: resiliency, hazard mitigation and analysis, disaster response and recovery, emergency preparedness and planning, fiscal management, communication, intergovernmental administration, geographic information systems, legal and ethical decision making, cultural competency and diversity, and general emergency management. The frequency of man-made and natural disasters has dramatically increased since the 1990s; emergency and disaster declarations in the U.S. reflect it. Florida is the fifth highest state with 69 major disaster declarations between 1953 and 2016 (Congressional Research Service, 2017). For communities to be prepared for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate these disasters, an educated workforce of emergency management specialists is required. Students in UCF's Master in Emergency and Crisis Management program will learn and demonstrate the competencies required to lead and manage in this dynamic and complex profession. The Master of Emergency and Crisis Management program requires a minimum of 36 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. The program is offered completely online and students have an option of taking part-time or full-time coursework. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Please Note: The Emergency and Crisis Management MECM may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at 407-823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Degree Requirements Emergency and Crisis Management Core Courses 30 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD6399 - Foundations of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (3) PAD6825 - Cross-Sectoral Governance (3) PAD6700 - Research Methods in Public Administration (3) PAD6397 - Managing Emergencies and Crises (3) PAD6705 - Public Sector Communications (3) PAD6227 - Public Budgeting (3) PAD6398 - Hazard Analysis and Disaster Planning (3) PAD6439 - Leadership in Public Service (3) PAD6946 - Internship (3) PAD6086 - Advanced Concepts and Applications in Emergency and Crisis Management (3) Additional Elective Courses 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: PAD5356 - Managing Community and Economic Development (3) PAD5850 - Grant and Contract Management (3) PAD5887 - Energy Policy (3) PAD6200 - International Emergency and Crisis Management (3) PAD6307 - Public Policy Analysis and Management (3) PAD6327 - Public Program Evaluation Techniques (3) PAD6335 - Strategic Planning and Management (3) PAD6353 - Environmental Planning and Policy (3) PAD6716 - Information Systems for Public Managers and Planners (3) CCJ6027 - Criminal Justice Responses to Terrorism (3) CPO6729 - Global Security in the Age of Migration (3) IDC5602 - Cybersecurity: A Multidisciplinary Approach (3) INR6136 - Seminar in American Security Policy (3) PLA5587 - Current Issues in Cyberlaw (3) POS6686 - National Security Law (3) PUR6403 - Crisis Public Relations (3) Grand Total Credits: 36 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to meeting general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Three letters of recommendation specifically for the MECM program. Letters of recommendation should be from professors, researchers, or professional administrators who can attest to the applicant's ability to succeed in graduate coursework and his or her work ethic. Résumé: The most current, professional resume should be provided. Statement of goals: The goal statement is a key component of the admission review process and serves as an example of the applicant's ability to express him or herself in writing. The goal statement must be single-spaced, one-inch margins, and no longer than two pages (500-800 words). Applicant must address the following: Reason for pursuing graduate study in Emergency and Crisis Management, including future goals and plans. Topics or areas of special interest in Emergency and Crisis Management. Expectations of the graduate program. What the applicant will bring to the program that would make him or her a special candidate for admission to this program. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. All International students must meet university minimum TOEFL requirements regardless of the language in which the undergraduate program was completed. Admission to this program is competitive. Applicants are encouraged to apply early to this program. All requested material must be submitted by the established deadline date. Materials received after the established deadline may not be considered. Students are expected to be computer literate upon entry to the program. This program is completely online, so computer skills and computer internet access are necessary to take the courses. Application Deadlines Emergency and Crisis Management MECM *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jun 1 Nov 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. The Spring 2022 Application Deadline has been extended until December 1, 2021. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida