Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Preparing leaders of character in service to our nation Center for Character and Leadership Development character & leadership development Evening View of Polaris Hall & the Academy Chapel Polaris Hall is the newest iconic structure on the United States Air Force Academy. Opened in 2016, this facility houses the Center for Character & Leadership Development. Lecture World Class Forum for World Class Speakers The Forum is a world-class venue for inspirational speakers to connect with cadets and permanent party. NCLS National Character and Leadership Symposium The annual National Character and Leadership Symposium (NCLS) is the United States Air Force Academy’s flagship event on character and leadership. It brings together distinguished scholars, military leaders, corporate executives and world-class athletes to motivate and equip participants for honorable living and effective leadership. In This Section: Research and Scholarship Division Support Division Integration Division Development Division Journal of Character and Leadership Development National Character & Leadership Symposium Leadership Overview Integrity, Service, Excellence The Academy’s mission is to educate, train and inspire men and women to become officers of character motivated to lead the United States Air Force in service to our Nation. The Academy’s Center for Character and Leadership Development (CCLD) is at the heart of accomplishing that mission. CCLD helps align academic, athletic and military efforts—for faculty and staff and across all four years of the Academy course of instruction—to develop leaders of character. The U.S. Air Force Academy defines character as: “One’s moral compass; the sum of those qualities of moral excellence which move a person to do the right thing despite pressures to the contrary.” The mission of the Center for Character and Leadership Development is “To serve USAFA by advancing character and leadership development in preparation for service to the nation.” These words encompass the broad range of activities for which the CCLD is responsible, with a singular focus of advancing character and leadership development. USAFA’s strategic goal #1 is to develop leaders of character in service to our nation. The CCLD is the primary integrator of character and leadership development for USAFA. Our vision is “To be the center of excellence for character and leadership development.” This vision statement points to our ultimate destination as a Center. Our efforts directly impact the development of leaders of character – not just officers – who walk across a graduation stage and into our Air and Space Forces to lead us in the face of a dynamic environment. With intentionality, we also help shape the leader-developers who influence and inspire those future leaders by preparing them to live honorably, lift others and elevate performance. We deliberately collaborate with external agencies and institutions to share and adopt best practices to accomplish our noble and high purpose in support of our nation. In short, we deeply and tangibly infuse character and leadership across the institution and beyond. Click here to learn more about how we develop leaders of character for the 21st century. CCLD Faculty and Staff LEADER OF CHARACTER The CCLD’s activities and initiatives are firmly grounded in the Leader of Character Framework, creating an environment where cadets and faculty alike own, engage, and practice the habits of honorable thoughts and actions in line with an identity of a leader of character. The framework defines a “leader of character” as someone who: Lives honorably by consistently practicing the virtues embodied in the Core Values; Lifts others to their best possible selves; and, Elevates performance toward a common and noble purpose. LINES OF EFFORT The CCLD executes its mission through four divisions: Research and Scholarship, Integration, Development, Support and three lines of effort (LOEs): Integrate: Integrate character and leadership development across the institution and with key stakeholders; Serve: Serve mission elements as a first and primary focus; Strengthen: Plan, program, and budget for long-term success. These LOEs guide our daily efforts as we execute the CCLD mission and achieve the CCLD vision. All of our efforts result in commissioning officers who are leaders of character that will serve our Air and Space Forces and our nation well in a dynamic environment. To support the Academy-wide character and leadership mission, CCLD: Advances understanding and implementation of effective character and leadership development practices across military, academic and athletic settings—for cadets, faculty and staff Inspires cadets to embrace the Air Force Core Values as the foundation of their lifelong development as leaders of character Provides experiences, tools and collaborative, inspirational settings to foster character and leadership development for cadets and Academy faculty/staff Advises Academy leadership on character and leadership development issues Organizations interested in learning more or working with CCLD in areas of common interest may contact us at ccld@usafa.edu. FEATURED CONTENT Watch Video On Demand Series Watch the 2021 National Character and Leadership Symposium Video on Demand series. IN THE NEWS Air Force Academy, Air University partnership shows growth CCLD hosts coaching program for AOCs JCLD Winter 2021 JCLD Fall 2020 CONNECT WITH US Polaris Hall, Suite 300 USAF Academy, Colorado 80840-6260 Phone: (719) 333-4904 Fax: (719) 333-4276 Explore More National Character & Leadership Symposium Cadet Development Leadership Publications Polaris Hall ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.