Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dance Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dance Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Dance Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Dance Certificate (Undergraduate) Explore your creative self-expression and learn dance and movement techniques with the Undergraduate Certificate in Dance in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Open to all Temple undergraduate students, this six-course, 12-credit certificate program lays the foundation for those interested in careers as choreographers or performers, or as dance educators or instructors in community organizations, dance studios, or schools and universities. You’ll gain a greater understanding of modern dance techniques, movement and performance, as well as dance theory. Temple’s Dance faculty comprises instructors who have created and performed worldwide, and who have offered master class instruction to some of the most dedicated and talented dance students. Additionally, through the certificate’s coursework, you’ll take dive into the history, culture and meanings of dance across various genres, including ballet, jazz and hip-hop. You must have completed at least 15 credits of coursework to add the Dance Undergraduate Certificate to your curriculum. This certificate is not available to Dance majors. Classes & Curriculum To complete the required Dance Certificate (Undergraduate) curriculum, students take the following courses. African Dance Jazz Dance Movement Improvisation Ways of Knowing Dance You can choose two elective courses such as Ballet, Hatha Yoga, Hip Hop, Modern Dance and Pilates: Body Conditioning. Learn more about courses for the Dance Undergraduate Certificate. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional information Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program contact Norma Porter is the representative for dance admissions and recruitment. Phone: 215-204-0533 Email: dance@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-DANC-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dance Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info