Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home Students Students Online Degree Programs Student Pathways Crossroads DACA Information UH System Students The University of Houston System comprises four universities and six multi-institution instructional sites, including the University of Houston, UH-Clear Lake, UH-Downtown and UH-Victoria, and instructional sites in Katy, Northwest Houston, Pearland and Sugar Land. Through the UHS Student Pathways program, undergraduate students in any of the four UH System universities are able to take up to six hours of courses toward their degree, at any of the universities. Please visit the campus website for more information. University of Houston University of Houston-Clear Lake University of Houston-Downtown University of Houston-Victoria UH System Online Degree The University of Houston System online program offers accredited degree and certificate programs with the flexibility to help students complete an undergraduate degree, seek a master's degree or earn a certification for career development. The students, classes and faculty in our online programs are the same exceptional quality as our traditional on-campus degree programs. Browse online programs offered by a specific institution within the UH System. Choose a university to search for specific programs and find out more information. University of Houston University of Houston-Clear Lake University of Houston-Downtown University of Houston-Victoria UH System Off-Campus Instructional Sites In addition to its four universities, the UH System operates six multi-institution instructional sites. The mission of these instructional sites is to meet the educational needs of students in high growth parts of the metropolitan area that don't have easy access to one of the UH System campuses. Students at the instructional sites have access to bachelor's and master's degree programs in high demand disciplines such as business and education. Bachelor's degrees are offered in partnership with community colleges, which provide freshman- and sophomore-level instruction, while the UH System universities provide junior- and senior-level instruction. Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies