Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Report It The University of Wyoming strives to provide a safe environment free from the detrimental effects of discrimination or sexual misconduct, which includes sexual harassment and sexual assault. The information on this page is designed to provide resources to assist students, staff, guests, or visitors who may have experienced such behavior regardless of where the misconduct took place. If you have difficulty finding the information you need, please call 307-766-5200 or email report-it@uwyo.edu. Revised Policies and Procedures UW has revised its Title IX policies and procedures. These revisions provide for live hearings to decide allegations of sexual misconduct, and those live hearings can also be conducted virtually using technology. This new procedure is the result of new Title IX regulations that were issued by the U.S. Department of Education in May. These regulations are very lengthy and detailed (over 2000 pages!). Mainly, they seek to provide strong due process protections to those who are accused of sexual misconduct while also balancing the rights of those who experience sexual harassment, assault, dating violence, domestic violence, retaliation, and/or sex/gender discrimination. To learn more about the revised University policies and procedures, please review the following documents. If you have questions about the process or wish to talk to someone about your options to report or seek support, please contact Equal Opportunity Report and Response (report-it@uwyo.edu, 766-5200). To review the materials used to train the Title IX Team posted in accordance with the 2020 Title IX regulations, please visit the Title IX Team Training page. Announcement Letter A letter from the Title IX Coordinator announcing the revised policies and procedures to campus. To review, please click here. Brief User Guide The new Title IX regulations are very complex and detailed. This brief user guide is intended to help explain the changes and make the new resolution process more transparent. To review, please click here. Harassment and Nondiscrimination Policy The complete revised Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination policy and procedures document, including all appendices and resources. To review, please click here. What to Report Resources Make a Report Quick Exit If Assault Happens Resources Policies Learn More EORR NO MORE Our Staff Your Title IX Coordinator Jim Osborn, Title IX Coordinator Bureau of Mines, Rm. 320 1000 E Univ Ave, Dept 4307 Laramie, WY 82071 (307) 766-5200 report-it@uwyo.edu AT UW Employees, students, and visitors should feel confident that issues relating to discrimination, sexual harassment, and workplace violence will be given appropriate attention at UW. It is important for individuals who are experiencing (or know of others who are experiencing) sexually harassing or discriminatory behavior to immediately report it to a University official. As the University’s policy states, such behavior is prohibited and will not be tolerated. It is also important for individuals who are not sure about such behavior to seek advice from whomever they are most comfortable. Anyone having questions or comments regarding UW Regulations 4-2 (Discrimination and Harassment) and 4-3 (Title IX and Sexual Misconduct) or the University’s policy prohibiting sexual harassment and discrimination is encouraged to contact Equal Opportunity Report and Response (EORR) by emailing report-it@uwyo.edu or calling 307-766-5200. The University of Wyoming does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs and activities, consistent with Title IX that requires it not to discriminate in such a manner. Persons seeking admission, employment, or access to programs at the University of Wyoming shall be considered without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, or political belief. 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility