Sealey-Ruiz, Yolanda (ys2061) Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC WWW View All Faculty Profiles Home Vitae Related Articles Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz Associate Professor of English Education 212-678-3003 Office Location: 468 GDodge Office Hours: By Appointment Only TC Affiliations: Arts & Humanities English Education Faculty Expertise: Literacy Home Vitae Related Articles Educational Background B.A., New York University; M.A., Teachers College, Columbia University; Ph.D., New York University Scholarly Interests Black and Latino Male Students. Critical English Education. Culturally Relevant Pedagogy. Racial Literacy in Urban teacher education. Educational trajectories of African American adult reentry women. Selected Publications Refereed Articles: Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2016). Why Black Girls’ Literacies Matter: New literacies for a new era. English Education, Vol 48 (4), 290-298. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & Haddix M. (2016). Education as if Black Lives Mattered. Special Edition of the American Educational Research Association (AERA) Division B Newsletter. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., & Greene, P. (2015). Popular visual images and the (mis)reading of Black male youth: A case for racial literacy in urban preservice teacher education. The International Journal of Teaching Education. Vol 26(1). doi: 10.1080/10476210.2014997702. Watson, W., Sealey-Ruiz, Y., & Jackson, I. (2014). Daring to care: The role of culturally relevant care in mentoring Black and Latino male high school students. Race, Ethnicity, and Education, 1-23. doi: 10.1080/13613324.2014.911169. Jackson, I., Sealey-Ruiz, Y., & Watson, W. (2014). Reciprocal love: Mentoring Black and Latino male students through an ethos of caring. Journal of Urban Education, 49(4), 1-24. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013). Learning to Resist: Educational counter-narratives of Black college reentry mothers. Teachers College Record,Vol. 115, 4, http://www.tcrecord.org ID Number: 16911. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013). Toward a pedagogy of racial literacy in First Year Composition. (2013). Teaching English in a Two-Year College (TETYC), Vol. 40 (3), 384-398. Haddix, M. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012). Cultivating digital and popular literacies as empowering and empancipatory acts among urban youth. Journal of Adolescent and Adult Literacy.pp. 56(3), 189-192. doi: 10.1002/jaal.00126. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012). A way of making it: Black reentry females' success and challenges to undergraduate education. National Journal of Urban Education and Practice. Vol. 5 (3), pp. 363-375. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011a). Learning to talk and write about race: Developing racial literacy in a college English classroom. English Quarterly. The Canadian Council of Teachers of English Language Arts, Vol. 42, 1, pp. 24-42. Sealey-Ruiz, Y & Greene, P.E. (2011b). Embracing urban youth culture in the context of education. The Urban Review, Vol. 43, pp. 339-357. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011c), The use of educational documentary in urban teacher education: A case study of Beyond the Bricks. Journal of Negro Education, Vol. 80 (3), pp. 310-324. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & Lewis, C. (2011d). Transforming the field of education to serve the needs of the Black community: Implications for critical stakeholders, Guest editorial, Journal of Negro Education, Vol. 80 (3), 185-187. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & Lewis, C. (2011e). Passing the torch: The future of the Black community is in our hands. Journal of Negro Education, Epilogue, p. 426. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011f). Dismantling the School-to-Prison Pipeline: Racial literacy development in urban teacher education. Journal of Curriculum Pedagogy. Vol. 8 (2), pp. 116-120. McCarthy, C., Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011).Teaching difficult history: Eric Williams' Capitalism and Slavery and the challenge of critical pedagogy in the contemporary classroom. Itinerrios: Frum Global de Investigao Educacional, Vol.1, 2, pp. 74-82. McCarthy, C., Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2010). Teaching difficult history: Eric Williams' <u""font-family: 'times="" new="" roman';="" font-weight:="" normal;="" "="">Capitalism and Slavery and the challenge of critical pedagogy in the contemporary classroom. <i""font-family: 'times="" new="" roman';="" font-weight:="" normal;="" "="">Power and Education. Vol. 2, 1 http://www.wwwords.co.uk/power/content/pdfs/2/issue2_1.asp Sealey-Ruiz, Y., Noguera, P.A. & N. Handville. (2008). In pursuit of the possible: Lessons learned from district efforts to reduce racial disparities in achievement. T`he Sophist's Bane: Society of Professors of Education. Vol. 4, 1 & 2 pp. 31-41. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2007a). Rising above reality: The voices of reentry Black mothers and their daughters. Journal of Negro Education, Vol. 76, 2, pp.141-153. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2007b). Wrapping the curriculum around their lives: Using a culturally responsive curriculum with African American adult women. Adult Education Quarterly, Vol. 58, 1, pp. 44-60. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2006). Getting to here from there: One woman's journey from the South Bronx to the academy. WILLA Journal, National Council of Teachers of English, Vol. XIV, pp. 40-42. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2005). Spoken soul: The language of Black imagination and reality. Kappa Delta Pi's Educational Forum, Vol. 69, pp. 37-46. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2004). Tasting memories. Food, Culture and Society: An International Journal of Multidisciplinary Research Vol.1,1 spring, J. Deutsch and A.H. Lawson (Eds.), pp. 131-134. Miller, J.P., Deutsch, J. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2003). Advancing multicultural education inhospitality education through the use of food studies curricula. Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Education,Vol. 16, 4 pp. 45-51. Books: Ford, D. Lawson-Davis, J. Trotman-Fraizer, M. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2017). Gumbo forthe Soul: Liberating Memoirs and Stories to Inspire Females of Color, New York, NY: Information Age Publishing. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., Lewis, C.W., Toldson, I.A. (2014). Teacher Education and the Black Community: Implications for Equity, Access, and Achievement. Information Age Publishers. Edited Volume: Haddix, M. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (Eds.) (2016). Black Girls’ Literacies. English Education special issue, Vol 48(4). Refereed & Invited Book Chapters: Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (Forthcoming, 2017)). Talking race, delving deeper: The racial literacy roundtables series at Teachers College, Columbia University. In Picower, B. & Kohli, R. The Messenger Matters: Navigating Racial Justice in Teacher Education, Routledge. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & Johnson-Bailey, J. (2015). Mentoring while Black and Female: The Gendered Literacy Phenomenon of Black Women Mentors. In Ntiri, D. (Ed.) Literacy as gendered discourse, New York: Information Age Publishing. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2014). Activating Racial Literacy Among Black and Latino Male High School Students. In Cohan, A. & Honigsfeld, A. (Series Eds.) Breaking the mold of classroom organization and management: Innovative and successful practices of engagement, motivation, and student empowerment for 21st Century schools, New York: Rowman and Littlefield. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., Allen, K., & Nolan, E. (2014). Invisible hands: Seeing and noticing Black and Latino male youth. In Y. Sealey-Ruiz, C. W. Lewis, & I. A. Toldson (Eds.), Teacher education and Black communities: Implications for equity, access, and achievement (pp. 99-115). New York, NY: Information Age Publishing. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013). The Art (and Play) of Alternative to Incarceration Programming. Afterword. Media, and Justice: Multimodal Explorations with Youth. In L. Vasudevan and T. DeJaynes (Eds.) Peter Lang Publishers. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & Lewis, C. (2013). Letters to our teachers: Black and Latino males write about race in the urban English classroom. In J. Landsman (Ed.) Learning to Talk About Race: Alleviating the Fear, Virginia: Stylus. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012). A way of making it: Black reentry females' success and challenges to undergraduate education. In H.T. Frierson (Series Ed.), & C. Chambers & R.V. Sharpe (Vol. Eds.), Diversity in Higher Education: Vol. 12. Black Female Undergraduates on Campus: Successes and Challenges, United Kingdom: Emerald Group. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2010). Reading, writing and racism: Developing racial literacy in the adult education English classroom. In The Handbook of Race and Adult Education: A resource for dialogue, V. Sheared, J. Johnson-Bailey, S. Colin, E. Peterson, & S. Brookfield (eds.) California: Jossey-Bass. Greene, P. & Y. Sealey-Ruiz. (2008). Teaching race: making the invisible concrete. In The Problem of the Colorblind: College Teachers Talk About the Fears, Risks, and Rewards of Teaching Race in 21st Century America. L. Guerro (ed.). New York: McMillan Palgrave. Textbook Contribution: Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2014). In W. A. Howe & P. L. Lisi's Becoming a multicultural educator: Developing awareness, gaining skills, and taking action. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE. Invited Book Reviews & Evaluations: Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013). Pedagogy of Confidence by Yvette Jackson. Teachers College Record, Published: January 08, 2013. http://www.tcrecord.org, ID Number: 16984 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012). Evaluation of documentary film "40 Years Later: Now Can We Talk?" for Teachers College Press. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011). Culturally responsive teaching: Theory, research, and practice, Second edition, by Geneva Gay. Teachers College Record, Published: January 21, 2011. http://www.tcrecord.org ID Number: 16249 Refereed Conference Proceedings: Jester, M. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. When and Where I Enter: Facilitating Transformative Learning Experiences Among Preservice Teachers to Prepare Them for Today's Culturally Diverse Classroom. (2011, May). Proceedings of the 9th Annual International Transformative Learning Conference in Europe, Athens, Greece. http://www.tlcathens2011.gr/proceedings. Research Reports: Noguera, P.A., Sealey-Ruiz,Y., Fergus, E.A., et al. (2007). Charting the course of excellence for all: The Ossining High School Diversity Project. Noguera, P.A., Sealey-Ruiz, Y., Fergus, E.A., et al. (2006). Toward equity and excellence: A study of the Achievement Gap in Teaneck public schools. Featured in a Documentary/Film: “2 Fists Up” Spike Lee’s Lil’ Joints, Vol 1. Season 2, Episode 1. Documentary. ESPN Films, Director: Spike Lee. Professional Presentations Keynote Addresses, Lectures & Panel Discussions (Invited) 2013 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013, March). Speaking and Writing as Cultural Acts, The Classroom as a Cultural Space: Black Boys and Literacy in London. Westminster City School, London, England. Keynote & workshop presentation. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013, February). Seeing and Taking the Time to Notice: Looking Beyond Partial Representations in the Classroom.34th Annual Ethnography in Education Research Forum:Ethnography as Counter Narrative: Reclaiming the Local in Educational Policy and Practice, Keynote Plenary Speaker. University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education, Philadelphia, PA Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2013, February). Supporting the social and academic success of Black male students: 20 Critical questions for educators." Urban Education Landscape Series. Keynote Speaker and panelist. Syracuse University School of Education. New York. 2012 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, November). Beyond the Bricks and Culturally Responsive Education. Using Hip Hop to Transform Schools and Communities, Schomburg Center's Higher Learning Series, Panelist. Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, November). Closing the Opportunity Gap for Black and Latino Males through Culturally Responsive Education. The New York City Department of Education's Empowering Boys Initiative, Closing the Achievement Gap Series, Keynote Speaker. Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, New York, NY Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, October). Writing Successful Conference Proposals. Sisters of the Academy Intensive Grantsmanship Workshop, Baltimore, MD. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, October). Planning and Getting a post-doctoral fellowship. Sisters of the Academy Intensive Grantsmanship Workshop, Baltimore, MD. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, September). Documentary Premiere of 40 Years Later: Now Can We Talk?, Panelist. Discussion with Lee Ann Bell, (Producer) & Markie Hancock (Director), Barnard College, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, September). Poetry is Pedagogy: Response to "Quiet" Urban Word NYC Preemptive Education Conference The New Digital Underground: Voice, Media, and Critical Pedagogy", Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, September) looking inward to do the work that matters, Guest lecture, Language and Literacy doctoral seminar, Syracuse University, New York. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, July). Advancing Culturally Responsive Classrooms at Pace Academy (a focus on males of color). Pace Academy, Atlanta, GA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, July). From Racial Literacy to Cultural Responsiveness: Building Classrooms that Work for all Students. New York University Metropolitan Center for Urban Education's TACD's Summer Institute: Guardians of Equity: Moving Beyond a Deficit Mode New York City. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, July). From Writing for Full Presence to Where I'm From: Writing that Builds Community in the Classroom. Urban Word's 7th Annual Educator and Community Leader Training Institute: Hip Hop in the Heartland. University of Wisconsin-Madison, Wisconsin. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, July). Planning and Mediating Effective Learning for the Common Core State Standards. 5th Annual National Urban Alliance Summer Academy, Summer Learning for Educators Princeton Club & Columbia University Club, New York City. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, July). The Opportunity Gap Workshop. Education Pioneers. NYC Charter School Center, New York City. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, March). The Color of Our Classrooms: Bolstering the Recruitment and Retention of Minority Teachers. 8th Annual Black Policy Conference at the Harvard Kennedy School, Boston, MA. 2011 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, November). Waiting for Superman . or Not we need real reform toward equity for all: Documentaries and Discussion about School choice. Panel Discussant. Central New York Teacher Professional Development Network Education Series, SUNY Cortland. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, September). Speaking and Writing as Cultural Acts; The Classroom as a Cultural Space. English Education Fieldwork Seminar, Teachers College, Columbia University. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, September). Education Symposium: A discussion with Dr. Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz and Dr. Pedro Noguera, Men's Ministry of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, August). Using Culturally Responsive Pedagogy with Our Male Students: Advancing Classrooms that Work with Explicit Attention to Culture. The New York City Department of Education's Young Male Initiative, Children's First Network 203, Cluster 2 - First Principal's Meeting, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, August). Preparing for the First Days: Culture, Students and Social Justice. New Teacher Underground, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, July). Know Thyself in School, Work, and Community: Dealing with Difficult Situations.Cultivating Aspiring Leaders, Leadership Training institute, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, July). New York University Metropolitan Center for Urban Education Technical Assistance Center on Disproportionality Annual Summer Institute on Equity:Guardians of Equity - Improving the Educational Opportunity for Children. New York University, New York, NY. Toldson, I., Ford, D., Lewis, C., Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, April). Breaking Barriers 2 @ AERA. Pre-Conference Event & Poster Session presented at the 92ndAnnual American Education Research Association (AERA), New Orleans, LA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2011, March). Using Culturally Responsive Pedagogy with Our Male Students: Advancing Classrooms that Work with Explicit Attention to Culture. The New York City Department of Education's Empowering Boys Initiative, Closing the Achievement Gap Series. East Side Community High School, New York, NY Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Walking the Tightrope While Juggling: Balancing Motherhood and the Demands of the Academy". HERStory Annual Women's Conference, Panelist. (2011, March). Borough of Manhattan Community College, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Writing Research for Understanding Across the Disciplines (2011, March). Open Society Institute International Fellows Program. George Soros Foundation, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Rigor, Relevance, Relationships: The Substance of Culturally Responsive Pedagogy (2011, March). Heritage High School Conference Day. New York, NY 2010 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Beyond the Bricks" Facilitator & Organizer (w/L. Vasudevan). (2010, November). Teachers College, Columbia University, Milbank Chapel, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Waiting for Superman" Post discussion. Panelist. (2010, November).Undergraduate Education Program, New York University., New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "No Child Left Behind" Post-performance discussion. Panelist. (2010,September). Syracuse Stage, Syracuse University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Waiting for Superman" Screening and post discussion. Facilitator. (2010, October). Columbia University Scholars Program, Columbia University, , New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Waiting for Superman" Screening and post discussion. Co-organizer and Moderator. (2010, September). Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Nourish Your Dreams or They Will Die. (2010, June). Satellite Academy High School. 92nd Street Y, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Introduction of Bob Herbert, New York Times Op-Ed Columnist . (2010, April 10). Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Heart of Stone" (2010, April 2). Panelist. Teachers College, Columbia University. Sponsored by the Institute for Urban and Minority Affairs (IUME), New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Invisibility and Hypervisibility Blues" Women in Higher Education (2010, March 31). Panelist. Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "Hip Hop and Education": Closing Remarks (2010, March). Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Increasing the Presence of Latinos in Higher Education. (2010, February). Panelist. Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Language Arts Classroom as a Cultural Space (2010, July). The South Coast Writing Project, Santa Barbara, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Language Arts Classroom as a Cultural Space (2010, July). The UCLA Writing Project at Cal State, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Embracing the Cultural: Using Student Backgrounds to Create a Writing Community. The Student Press Initiative Summer Institute for Teachers (2010, July). Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Cultivating Culturally Responsive School Districts. (2010, July). New York University's Metropolitan Center for Urban Education Summer Institute - Technical Assistance Center on Disproportionality. Steinhardt School of Culture, Education and Human Development, New York, NY Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Cultural Connections in the Classroom (June, 2010). Teachers College, Columbia University, Center for the Professional Education of Teachers/New York City Department of Education Professional Development Day, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & D. Hucks. Understanding Disproportionality (2010, June). Teachers College, Columbia University's TR @ TC and Peace Corp Summer Institute, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Rigor, Relevance, Relationships: The Substance of Culturally Responsive Pedagogy (2010, May). Teachers College, Columbia University's TR @ TC and Peace Corp Summer Institute, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Integrating Diversity (2010, April). New York University Steinhardt Undergraduate Education Program's DUETs Project, Theory into Practice Series, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Rigor, Relevance, Relationships: The Substance of Culturally Responsive Pedagogy (2010, March). The New School Spring Faculty Conference for SPACE program. Parsons The New School, New York. NY. 2009 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & D. Hucks. The promises and possibilities of teaching in an urban school: Explorations of fact and fiction (2009, September). New York University Steinhardt School of Education Freshman Seminar Series, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Mentoring the Culturally Responsive Educator: Peace Corp Fellows Teacher Mentor Workshop (2009, August). Peace Corp Fellows Program at Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Potential of the Unwritten Life (2009, June), Mott Haven High School. South Bronx, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Language Arts Classroom as a Cultural Space (2009, July). The South Coast Writing Project. Ventura, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Language Arts Classroom as a Cultural Space (2009, July). The UCLA Writing Project at Cal State, CA Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Let's talk about race.and class.and gender." (2009, July). New YorkUniversity Steinhardt School of Education, Culture and Human Development's Multicultural Education for Childhood Educators, York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Understanding and practicing culturally responsive teaching. (2009, March). New York University Steinhardt School of Education, Culture and Human Development's Education and Curriculum and Teaching Doctoral Seminar on Urban Education, New York, NY. 2008 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Benefits of Culturally Responsive Teaching in the Elementary Classroom (2008, October). New York University, Steinhardt School of Education's Multicultural Perspectives in Social Studying, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Rigor, Relevance, Relationships: The Substance of Culturally Responsive Pedagogy (2008, August). World Conference on Equity and Excellence in Education, Prince William County, VA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & D. Hucks. What makes an urban school urban?: Explorations of fact and fiction (2008, September). New York University Steinhardt School of Education Freshman Seminar Series, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Classroom as a Cultural Space (2008, August). World Conference on Equity and Excellence in Education, Prince William County, VA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & D. Hucks. Building Bonds Among Us: Staff and Teachers Working Together for Student Success. (2008, August). P.S 382 - School for Math, Science and Technology. Across grade professional development. Bronx, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & A. Connell-Cowell. Why We're There: Reflecting on Teaching in Urban Schools (2008, May). New York University Steinhardt School of Education Freshman Seminar Series, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Classroom as a Cultural Space: Embracing Diversity in Prince William County Public Schools (2008, April). Prince William County Schools Achievement Gap Summit, Prince William County, VA. 2007 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & A. Connell-Cowell. New Challenges for Urban Schools: A Teacher's Perspective (2007, October). New York University Steinhardt School of Education Freshman Seminar Series, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Addressing Disproprotionality Across New York State: Project Update 2007, October). New York State Higher Education Services Corporation Annual Meeting, Albany, NY. Hucks, D. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2007, October). The Role of Race and Class in Ithaca. Middle School Teacher Faculty Development Day, Ithaca, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & D. Hucks. (2007, October). Assessing Culturally Responsive School Environments. Elementary Teacher Development Day, Utica City School District, Utica, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2007, October). The Principles of Culturally Responsive Teaching. Hudson Valley School District's Superintendent's Day, Haverstraw, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Principles of Culturally Responsive Teaching and Culturally Responsive School Environments. (2007, August). Prince William County's World Conference on Excellence in Education, Prince William County, VA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., D. Hucks & S. McCletchie (2007, June). The Role of Leadership in Ensuring Equitable Outcomes for Students in the Ithaca City School District. Ithaca School District Principals' Retreat, Ithaca, NY. Hucks, D. & Y. Sealey-Ruiz. (2007, June). The Role of Guidance in Ensuring Equitable Outcomes for Students in the Ithaca City School District, Ithaca School District GuidanceCounselor Retreat, Ithaca, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Culturally Responsive Teaching and School Environments for Black Boys. (2007, May).East Ramapo District's Freshman Center, Focus on Boys Initiative, East Ramapo, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The What, Why and How of Culturally Responsive Teaching: Training the Trainer who Trains the Teacher. (2007, May). Long Island Regional Team Training, Patchogue-Medford, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Moving Toward Culturally Responsible Education in Syracuse Schools (2007, April). Syracuse Public Schools Professional Development Day, Syracuse, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Effective Strategies for Promoting Student Engagement. (2007, March).Cheektowaga Central School District Professional Development Day, Buffalo, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. It Is Possible, It Will Be Done: The Difference the AAUW American Dissertation Fellowship Makes. (2007, March). American Association of University Women Mid-Island Annual Conference, Great Neck, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Counting the Cost of Culturally Unresponsive Education in Ithaca schools. (2007, March). Ithaca Public Schools Superintendent's Day, Ithaca, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Principles and Power of Culturally Relevant Teaching. (2007, February). Patchouge-Medford School District Professional Development Day, Patchogue-Medford, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Using Culturally Responsive Teaching to Address Disproportionality in Region 7 Schools. (2007, February). Community School District 21 Regional Training Brooklyn, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Effective Strategies for Teaching Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Students: A Talk With Pre-Service and In-Service Teachers. (2007, February). New York University Department of Teaching and Learning's Administration and Supervision Course (Master's-level), New York, NY. 2006 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Culturally Responsive Considerations for RTI. (2006, November). Chair, New York University Steinhardt School of Education's Response to Intervention: What, Why, and How Valid Is It?, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Creating School Climates That Support Diverse Learners. (2006, November). New York University Equity Assistance Center's 1st Annual Conference, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. How Can We Encourage Learning Among Our ELLs? (2006, November). New York University Steinhardt School of Education, Department of Teaching and Learning, Early Career Project. Panelist, University Neighborhood High School, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Securing Funding for your Doctoral Studies. (2006, October) Panelist, New York University Student Affairs Graduate Student Funding Seminar, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. School Climates that Support Diverse Learners. (2006, October). Cheektowaga Central School District Professional Development Day, Buffalo, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Moving Toward a Culturally Responsive School Environment to Eradicate Disproportionality. (2006, October). New York State Education Department Office of Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals with Disabilities Annual Statewide Meeting, Albany, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & A. Connell-Cowell. Urban Schooling: Complexities, Dilemmas & Hopes. (2006, October). New York University Steinhardt School of Education Freshman Seminar Series, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Culturally Relevant Teaching and Culturally Responsive School Environments. (2006, September). Hudson City School District Superintendent's Day, Hudson, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Facing Our Realities, Realizing Our Dreams. (2006, May). Unity High School Career Day. Presentation to 9th - 12th Graders about College and Career Choices, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Principles and Power of Culturally Relevant Teaching: With Strategies for African American Students. (2006, May). Hudson City School District Superintendent's Day, Hudson, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & C. Gray. Addressing Disproportionality in Our Classrooms and Schools. (2006, April). New York University Steinhardt School of Education first-year graduate students, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Seven Talents of Me. (2006, May). Intermediate School (I.S.) 347 Career Day, Presentation to 7th Grade Class of in Bushwick, Brooklyn, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. A Fellowship of One's Own: The Importance of The American Dissertation Fellowship To Female Researchers. (2006, March). American Association of University Women (AAUW) Mid-Island Annual Conference, Great Neck, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Daring to Create Culturally Responsive Teaching Programs and School Environments in New York State (2006, September). New York State Higher Education Support Center for Systems Change (HESC) Annual Statewide Meeting, Albany, NY. 2005 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Spring: A Season of Self-Discovery, (2005, March). American Association of University Women Annual Educational Tea. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Standards And Testing: An Alternative View. (2002, April). New York University Metro Center for Urban Education, Bi-Annual Tutor Seminar, New York, NY. Refereed Paper Presentations, International 2012 Toldson, I., Lewis, C., Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Diversifying the United States' Teaching Force:"font-family: Garamond; ">Where are We Now? Where Do We Need to Go? How Do We Get There? (2012, February). Paper accepted at the 8th Annual World Conference on Educational Science, Barcelona, Spain. Refereed Paper Presentations, National 2012 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, November). Dear Miss: Building Black and Latino Adolescent males' Racial Literacy through Letter Writing in the English Classroom. Paper presented at the 102nd National Council for Teachers of English (NCTE), Las Vegas, NV. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, November). Women Scholars Of Color Exploring The Intersections Of Race, Gender, And Status In The Academy, Chair. 102nd National Council for Teachers of English (NCTE), Las Vegas, NV. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. (2012, November). Dear Miss: Building Black and Latino Adolescent males' Racial Literacy through Letter Writing in the English Classroom. Paper presented at the 62nd Annual Literacy Research Association (LRA), San Diego, CA. Sealey-Ruiz,Y. & Jackson, I. (2012, November).Black and Latino Male Youth Speak Resistance and Resilience Through Digital Storytelling. Paper presented at the 62nd Annual Literacy Research Association (LRA), San Diego, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. & Kabba, F.(2012. November).Putting Race in its Place: Developing Racial Literacy in College (English) Classrooms. Paper presented at the 62nd Annual Literacy Research Association (LRA), San Diego, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Use of Educational Documentary in Urban Teacher Education: A Case Study of Beyond the Bricks. (2012, April). Paper presented at the 93rdAnnual American Education Research Association (AERA),Vancouver, BC. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Learning to Talk and Write about Race: Developing racial literacy in a college English classroom. (2012, April). Paper presented at the 93rdAnnual American Education Research Association (AERA),Vancouver, BC. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Learning To Resist: Learning to Resist: Educational counter-narratives of Black college reentry mothers. (2012, April). Paper presented at the 93rdAnnual American Education Research Association (AERA), Vancouver, BC. Watson, W., Jackson, I. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Trust and warm demanding: The impact of culturally relevant care on Black and Latino male students. (2012, April). Paper presented at the 93rdAnnual American Education Research Association (AERA),Vancouver, BC. Toldson, I., Lewis, C., Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Teacher Education and the Black Community: Preparing Teachers to Teach Black Students; Preparing Black Students to become Teachers. (2012, April). Paper presented at the 93rdAnnual American Education Research Association (AERA),Vancouver, BC. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Creating Relationships with Texts. (2012, April). Chair, Borough of Manhattan Community College (BMCC) Transitions and Transactions Conference, Brooklyn, NY. Diallo, F. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. "font-family: Garamond; ">Putting Race in its Place: Developing Racial Literacy in College Classrooms. (2012, February). Paper presented at theNational Council of Teachers of English Assembly for Research (NCTE-AR), Tuscaloosa, AL. 2011 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Learning to Talk and Write about Race: Developing racial literacy in a college English classroom. (2011, November). Paper presented at the 101st National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), Chicago, IL. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The use of Educational Documentary in Urban Teacher Education: A case study of Beyond the Bricks. (2011, November). Poster presented at the 101st National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), Chicago, IL. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Embracing the Imagination and Reality of Urban Youth Culture in the Context of Education. (2011, April). Paper Presented at the 92nd Annual American Education Research Association (AERA), New Orleans, LA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Voices from the Field: Alumni Critique and Re-imagine their Urban Teacher Preparation(2011, April). Paper Presented at the 92nd Annual American Education Research Association (AERA),New Orleans, LA. Bridges, T., Emdin, C., Hill, M.L., Low, B., Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Hip-Hop Pedagogies in Action: Moving Beyond Advocacy to Critical Research. (2011, April). Chair and Discussant. 92nd Annual American Education Research Association (AERA),New Orleans, LA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Voices from the Field: Novice ELA Teachers Examine their Preparation for Diverse Classroom Settings. (2011, February) Paper presented at the 63rd Annual American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE), San Diego, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y & Jester, M. When and Where I Enter: Preparing Preservice Teachers to Teach In Diverse Educational Settings. (2011, February). Interactive session presented at the 63rd Annual American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE),San Diego, CA. 2010 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Relevance of Critical English Education to Black and Latina Female Community College Students. (2010, November). Cultivating New Voices Among Scholars of Color. Poster presented at the 100th National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE). Orlando, FL. Jester, M. & Sealey-Ruiz, Y. When and Where I Enter: Preparing Pre-service Teachers to Teach in Diverse Educational Settings. (2010, November). Paper presented at the Race and Pedagogy National Conference, Tacoma, WA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Keeping our Promises: Preparing Teachers of Writing for Urban Public Schools (2010, March).Paper presented at the 61st Annual National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College Composition and Communication Louisville, KY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., Gribovskaya, A., Sng, C. et al. (2010, February). Voices from the field: Educators discuss their urban teacher preparation. Symposium presented at the 62nd Annual American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE), Atlanta, GA. 2009 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Reading, Writing and Racism: First-Year Composition as a space for critical Discourse(2009, November).Paper presented at 99th National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), Philadelphia, PA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Globalizing Knowledge: International Experiences in Pre-service Teacher Education (2009, April). Discussant at the 90thAmerican Educational Research Association (AERA), San Diego, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Reading, Writing and Racism: First-Year Composition as a space for critical Discourse (2009, March).Paper presented at the 60th Annual National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC),San Francisco, CA. 2008 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Reflecting on Race, Problematizing Racism, and Building Community in a ClassroomofDiverse Learners. (2008, March). Paper presented at the 89th American Educational Research Association (AERA), New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Curriculum Matters: Enacting a Black Feminist Program of Study with Adult Reentry Students. (2008, March). Paper presented at the 89th American Educational Research Association (AERA), New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Addressing the Teacher Education Gap: Putting the Links Together, Chair. (2008, March). Paper presented at the 89th American Educational Research Association (AERA), New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y.Teaching Race: Making the Invisible Concrete. (2007, April). Paper presented at the 88th American Educational Research Association (AERA), Chicago, IL 2007 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Principles of Culturally Relevant Teaching and Culturally Responsive School Environments. (2007, February). Presenter, 2nd Annual Conference of the National Center for Culturally Responsive Educational Systems (NCCRESt), Washington, DC. 2006 Sealey-Ruiz, Y.Rising Above Reality: Exploring the Educational Narratives of Black Reentry Mothers and their Daughters. (2006, April). Paper presented at the 87th American Educational Research Association (AERA), San Francisco, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Moving Their Lives from Margin to Center: Using a Culturally Relevant Curriculum with African American Adult Women. (2006, April). Paper presented at the 87th American Educational Research Association (AERA), San Francisco, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. This Woman's Work: Exploring the Educational Narratives of Black Reentry Mothers and their Daughters. (2006, March). Paper presented at the 57th Annual National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College Composition and Communication, (CCCC), Chicago, IL. 2005 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Bridge I Build: The Educational Narratives of Black Reentry Women. (2005, November). Paper presented at the 54th Annual National Adult Education and Continuing Education Conference (AAACE), Pittsburgh, PA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. AfraFeminist Rhetorics of Education, Literacy, and Motherhood/ing2005, October). Paper presented at the 5th Biennial International Feminism(s) and Rhetoric(s) Conference, Michigan Technical University, Detroit, MI. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. African American Reentry Women Finding Their Voices, Telling Their Stories. (2005, March). Paper presented at the 56th Annual National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC), San Francisco, CA. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. The Subject Matter of Composition, Revising the Comp/Lit Debate,(2005, October). Presider/Respondent. Annual Conference of the Modern Language Association (MLA),Washington, DC. 2004 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Wrapping the Curriculum Around Their Lives: Culturally Relevant Teaching and African American Adult Writers. (2004, November). Paper presented at the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), Conference on English Education (CEE) Annual Conference, Presenter, Indianapolis, IN. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Reading and Writing Their Lives: African American Reentry Women and Culturally Relevant Teaching. (2004, March). Paper presented at the 55th Annual National Council of Teachers of English, Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC), San Antonio, TX. Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Pushed Back to Strength: The Journey Narratives of African American Adult Women. (2004, March). Paper presented at the 55th Annual National Council of Teachers of English, Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC),San Antonio, TX. 2003 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Exploring African American Adult Student Writing using a Culturally Compatible Curriculum. (2003, November).Paper presented at the 52nd Annual National Adult Continuing Education Conference (AAACE), Detroit, MI. Sealey-Ruiz, Y". (2003, March). Writing to Be: A Case For Culturally Relevant Curriculum in a College Composition Classroom of African American Adult Learners. (2003, March). Paper presented at the 54th Annual Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC), National Council of Teachers of English, New York, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., A. Connell-Cowell. Writing Black: African American Students Finding Voice and Purpose in their Writing, (2003, February). Co-presenter, National Council of Teachers of English, NCTE Assembly for Research Midwinter Conference, Teaching and Researching Across Color Lines: Literacies, Pedagogies, and the Politics of Difference, Minneapolis, MN. 2002 Sealey-Ruiz, Y. Food Experience and The Colors of Learning: Activities Across Disciplines: Writing about Food, Talking about Life.(2002, November).Co-presenter, City University of New York College Learning Series at Kingsborough Community College, Brooklyn, NY. Sealey-Ruiz, Y., C. Kynard & A. Connell-Cowell. (2002, October). Stories from Black Students' and Teacher's Journeys Into Literacy. Co-presenter, 12th Annual Conference of the National Association for Multicultural Education (NAME), Washington D.C. Sealey-Ruiz, Y.& J. Deutsch. (2002, October). Cultural Relevance for Whom?: Using Food Experiences to Teach Content and Communication in the Hospitality Classroom and Beyond. Panelist, 3rd Annual Symposium on Communication and Communication-Intensive Instruction at City University of New York, Symposium, New York, NY Office Location 468 GDH Related Articles Cardona, Rock and Sealey-Ruiz Receive TC's Elaine Brantley Award This year's recipients of TC's Elaine Brantley Memorial Award for Community and Civility are Evelyn Cardona, Administrative Assistant in the College's Office of School and Community Partnerships;Thomas Rock, Executive Director of Enrollment Services; and Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz, Assistant Professor of English Education. Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz: Engaging Students and Peers in the Larger Community TC's Sealey-Ruiz Says Schools Are Powerless Places for Adolescents Sealey-Ruiz, a specialist in culturally responsive teaching, told Spot.us that bullying is often an attempt to get power and respect. Bullying becomes a means of "trying to get power and ultimately gain respect-'"particularly for students of color in a place that least respects who they are." A Forum for Candid Conversations A student-run Racial Literacy Roundtable series offered participants the opportunity to freely examine issues of race, class, privilege and access--looking at their own biases as well as that of others Sealey-Ruiz Co-Edits Special Journal Issue on the Disappearance of Black Teachers Would fewer Black male students drop out if more Black men were teaching? The question, which has provoked much discussion and research by educators and academics, is now the focus of a special issue of the prestigious Journal of Negro Education (JNE), guest edited by Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz, TC Assistant Professor of English Education. Good Fellowship Scholarships created by TC's late Board Vice Chair Arthur Zankel have extended the College's tradition of urban service The Good Ideas Keep Coming TC's Provost's Investment Fund continues to fund innovative new projects Getting Inclusive As New York City improves its track record in accommodating students with disabilities, score a major assist for TC Research in Practice: Finding Answers in the Classroom Research in Practice: Finding Answers in the Classroom TC Faculty Question Education Secretary's Vision Writing in Education Week, a group of the College's faculty members query Arne Duncan on some of the ideas he laid out in his address to the TC community. A Group of TC Faculty Condemns the Release of Teacher Evaluations Based on Student Test Scores Group of TC Faculty Condemn the Release of Teacher Evaluations Based on Student Test Scores Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links