Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Meals-to-You: How Baylor Leads in the Fight Against Hunger Baylor>Research>About>Find A Researcher>Meals-to-You Meals-to-You: How Baylor Leads in the Fight Against Hunger Millions of families across the country rely on school meal programs for their children year-round. When COVID-19 abruptly forced school closures, the Baylor University Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty quickly mobilized to meet considerable need, utilizing an innovative original program. “Meals-to-You” began as a Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty pilot program in 2019 to provide nourishing, shelf-stable meals through the mail to families in rural areas across Texas. Many rural Americans, far away from the nearest community or school, cannot easily access food site programs when school is out. The unique Meals-to-You model led the U.S. Department of Agriculture to call on the Baylor’s assistance during the COVID-19 public health crisis. In partnership with the USDA, McLane Global and PepsiCo, the Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty twice scaled the program nationally—now providing 5 million meals to rural schoolchildren in 38 states and Puerto Rico. Learn More about the “Meals-to-You” Program Sep 25 2021 A Preeminent Christian Research University Baylor University's vision affirms that the world needs a preeminent Christian research university, addressing significant global challenges through top-tier research. Learn more about systemic growth across Baylor's research enterprise and advancement toward R1/Tier research status. Jul 30 2020 Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty Receives $930,000 USDA Grant for Milk Incentive Program USDA grant supports innovative pilot program designed to encourage Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) participants to purchase and consume milk as part of a healthy, balanced diet. May 19 2020 USDA expands Baylor program for feeding rural schoolkids to provide 5 million meals a week It was barely a month ago that we wrote about how a Baylor program — picked up and supported by the USDA, PepsiCo, McLane Global and others — had quickly ramped up to provide a million meals a week to schoolchildren in rural areas impacted by COVID-19-related school closures. Here’s how well that program has … May 15 2020 WATCH: Meals-to-You on Good Morning, America Good Morning, America featured Meals-to-You, a food by mail initiative of the Baylor University Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty, in a live report May 15. Meals-to-You, a partnership with the USDA, McLane Global and PepsiCo, feeds over 5 million meals per week through the mail to rural schoolchildren. May 14 2020 WATCH: Meals-to-You on ABC News Prime Time The Baylor University Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty's Meals-to-You program delivers over five million meals per week through the mail. Meet families benefitting from the initiative on this ABC News Prime Time report, and travel inside the warehouses of McLane Global, a program partner, where food is packaged and delivered. May 6 2020 Meals-to-You Expands to 5 Million Meals a Week The USDA announced a major expansion of Meals-to-You, an innovative, research-based partnership between the Baylor University Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty, USDA, McLane Global and PepsiCo, to feed low-income kids in rural areas impacted by pandemic-related school closures. Mar 27 2020 LISTEN: Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty on Baylor Connections Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty Founder and Executive Director Jeremy Everett discusses the nationwide expansion of "Meals-to-You," an innovative food by mail program providing meals to rural schoolchildren. With schools closed by COVID-19, a private-public partnership is expanding the program to serve over a million meals per week. Mar 17 2020 Private-Public Partnership Takes "Meals-to-You" Nationwide Innovative Baylor program will deliver millions of nutritious meals directly to students who attend rural schools closed by COVID-19. Mar 15 2020 Statewide Hunger Collaborative Launches Website of Texas Food Sites for Children Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty website lists sites in communities throughout Texas that provide meals on an individual basis while schools are closed. About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Download White Eye Detector (App Store) Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact