Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science (MS) in Industrial Engineering Design and Implement Solutions for Complex Processes and Systems Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Industrial Engr & Mgmt Sys 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Innovate, Improve and Manage Efficient Systems to Save Businesses Time and Money Industrial engineering, in its broad nature, focuses on the design and improvement of systems, products and processes. A total systems approach is used to optimize the various aspects of operations in both manufacturing and service industries. The Master of Science in Industrial Engineering program at UCF supports the emergence of Central Florida as a national center of high technology, as well as assists the diverse service industries in the region and throughout the nation. The Master of Science in Industrial Engineering program coursework focuses on the systems approach, including complexity, system-of-systems perspective, human-systems integration, as well as the critical issues of economic and social globalization, environmental and business sustainability, innovation and leadership. And with two ways to take courses — on campus or through the UCF Online industrial engineering program — you’ll gain the knowledge and skills necessary to lead a successful career at top companies, including Lockheed Martin, L3Harris, Siemens, Mitsubishi, Walt Disney World, Universal Studios, IBM and NASA. As an industrial engineering graduate student at UCF, you’ll also have the opportunity to craft your program of study. This allows you to develop a specialized expertise in various areas of industrial and systems engineering, and engineering management that match your personal interests. Select courses to focus on one or more of the following research areas: Human Systems Engineering/Ergonomics Assist in ensuring that as technology advances, the abilities, limitations and needs of humans are considered in the system design. Operations Research Use mathematics and computer-based systems to model operational processes and decisions in order to develop and evaluate alternatives that will lead to gains in efficiency and effectiveness. Quality Systems Engineering Explore the various ways to improve product and process quality in manufacturing and service industries. Simulation Modeling and Analysis Dive deeper into the functional and technical design requirements for simulation in manufacturing and service industries. Systems Engineering Design and implement computer systems, software and networks, including defining complex system requirements and determining system specifications, processes and working parameters. Interactive Simulation and Training Systems Gain a fundamental understanding of significant topics relative to simulation systems and the requirements, design, development and use of such systems for knowledge transfer in the technical environment. Request Information Highlights The industrial engineering program at UCF ranked 41st in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report. A group of industrial engineering students helped revolutionize move-in day at UCF for Fall 2020, giving them first-hand experience in helping make operations smoother. There are nearly 900,000 industrial engineering jobs across the U.S. — a number that's expected to continue increasing each year over the next decade. Industrial engineering graduates earn an annual average salary of $94K. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Engineering Statistics Learn about discrete and continuous probability distributions, hypothesis testing, regression, nonparametric stats and ANOVA. Project Engineering Explore the role of engineers in project management with emphasis on project life cycle, quantitative and qualitative methods of cost, schedule and performance control. Systems Engineering Get an introduction to heuristics approach to the process of systems architecting in business, economics, social, urban, military and government domains emphasizing the conceptual representation and acceptance phases. View All MS in Industrial Engineering Courses You’ll Take Industrial Engineering Skills You'll Learn Combine technical and business skills to design and improve systems, products and processes for a number of industries, including manufacturing, service, healthcare and government. Use many analytical approaches to improve productivity, safety and quality of working life while reducing operating costs. Advance your career as an industrial engineer, engineering manager or technical professional, or leader for the global economy, and prepare for further graduate work or independent research. Career Opportunities Industrial Engineer Engineering Manager Process Engineer Supply Chain Analyst Project Manager Systems Engineer Manufacturing Engineer Admission Requirements Industrial engineering graduate applicants are encouraged to request a free pre-screening of their qualifications prior to submitting an application. While it’s not required, the pre-screening helps prospective students learn more about the program and discusses if any prerequisites will be needed. Applications are accepted for the fall and spring terms only, and faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: Official transcripts Resume Goal statement Letters of recommendation Request Information College of Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Industrial Engineering (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Industrial Engineering (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science programs in Industrial Engineering are designed to produce highly skilled graduates who are prepared to be industrial engineers, engineering managers or technical professionals, or leaders for the global economy, as well as preparing them for further graduate work or independent research. Industrial Engineering, in its broad nature, focuses on the design and improvement of systems, products, and processes. A total systems approach is used to optimize the various aspects of operations in both manufacturing and service industries. Industrial engineers use many analytical approaches to improve productivity, safety, and quality of working life while reducing operating costs. The Industrial Engineering programs are structured to support the emergence of Central Florida as a national center of high technology as well as supporting the diverse service industries in the region and throughout the nation. In the Industrial Engineering MS programs, students are able to individually craft their programs of study and select their courses to focus on one or more of the following research areas. Human Systems Engineering/Ergonomics As technology has become more sophisticated, the need to design for the human user has become more difficult, yet even more important. Human engineering and ergonomics assist in ensuring that as technology advances, the abilities, limitations, and needs of humans are considered in the system design. This not only supports the needs of the user, it also optimizes the efficiency and usability of the system designed. Traditionally, ergonomics has been associated with biomechanical issues and work measurement and performance issues in physical system design, as well as occupational and industrial safety. The broader focus of human engineering encompasses those issues as well as incorporating the reaction and effectiveness of human interaction with systems, both physical systems and virtual systems such as computer-based models. Research in the Human Systems Engineering and Ergonomics area provides students with the necessary knowledge in human engineering and ergonomics to effectively design tasks, industrial systems, and work environments that maximize human performance, safety, and overall productivity. Interactive Simulation and Training Systems The Interactive Simulation and Training Systems research within the Industrial Engineering MS program focuses on providing a fundamental understanding of significant topics relative to simulation systems and the requirements, design, development, and use of such systems for knowledge transfer in the technical environment. Courses in this area address the evolving and multiple discipline application of interactive simulation by providing a wealth of electives to support the development of individual student interests and talents. In conjunction with UCF's Institute for Simulation and Training, industrial organizations involved in simulation in the Central Florida region, military organizations, and other governmental organizations, ISTS research in the MS program provides exposure to both military and commercial interactive simulation and training systems. The emphasis is on the application and development of interactive simulation and training systems to meet various requirements including, but not limited to: simulators, skill trainers, organizational learning systems, computer and web-based interactive simulation systems and other novel interactive simulation efforts. Courses in the interactive simulation and training systems area prepare individuals with an undergraduate degree in engineering, science, education, psychology, mathematics or other related disciplines for careers in simulation, focusing particularly on the interactive simulation and training systems industries. Operations Research The Operations Research courses in the Industrial Engineering MS program uses mathematics and computer-based systems to model operational processes and decisions in order to develop and evaluate alternatives that will lead to gains in efficiency and effectiveness. Drawing on probability, statistics, simulation, optimization, and stochastic processes, Operations Research provides many of the analytic tools used by industrial engineers as well as by other analysts to improve processes, decision-making, and management by individuals and organizations. Research in this area is ideal for students who have an undergraduate degree in engineering, mathematics, or science. The knowledge in these courses builds on an undergraduate Engineering, Mathematics, or Science degree to develop a strong modeling and analytical capability to improve processes and decision-making. Quality Systems Engineering The Quality Systems Engineering research in the Industrial Engineering MS program focuses on providing the knowledge for improving product and process quality in manufacturing and service industries. Quality Systems Engineering provides both the quantitative tools for measuring quality and the managerial focus and organizational insight required to implement effective continuous improvement programs and incorporate the voice of the customer. The Quality Systems Engineering courses build on an undergraduate degree in industrial engineering or a closely related discipline to provide the necessary knowledge to plan, control, and improve the product assurance function in government, military, service, or manufacturing organizations. Simulation Modeling and Analysis The Simulation Modeling and Analysis research and studies in the Industrial Engineering MS program focus on providing a fundamental understanding of the functional and technical design requirements for simulation in manufacturing and service industries. Research in this area is based on a systems modeling paradigm and provides coding and development capability in the context of a broader systems framework. Significant exposure to design and analysis aspects is a core element of the track. The Simulation Modeling and Analysis research and coursework prepare individuals with an undergraduate degree in Engineering, Science, Mathematics, or a closely related discipline for careers in simulation, focusing particularly on using simulation as an analysis and design tool for the manufacturing and service industries. Intelligence is being infused into everyday systems, processes and infrastructure that enable physical goods to be developed, manufactured, bought and sold. These same systems also facilitate the movement and delivery of global products and services that support worldwide markets such as finance, energy resources, and healthcare systems. With these technological advancements, comes a new level of complexity as organizations struggle to integrate systems, processes and data feeds. As a result, the demand for systems engineering and related skills is expected to grow significantly. Systems engineers design and implement computer systems, software, and networks, including defining complex system requirements, and determining system specifications, processes and working parameters. The Systems Engineering studies and research in the Industrial Engineering MS program are intended for individuals of all engineering disciplines. Research and coursework focus on a systems view of engineering problems related to the management of complex industrial, military, government, and social systems. This program can be taken entirely through the Center for Online and Virtual Education (COVE), which provides video-streamed versions of classes over the Internet. More information about this program can be found at http://www.cecs.ucf.edu/COVE/ or (407) 823-3814. The Industrial Engineering MS program offers both thesis and nonthesis options with each requiring 30 credit hours of courses. The program is flexible to enable students to model their plan of study to suit their needs and future work or career goals. All students must develop a plan of study with the graduate program director that meets with departmental approval. At least one-half of the courses (including thesis hours) required in the master's program of study must be at the 6000 level or higher. A cumulative grade-point average of B (3.0) must be maintained in the entire program of study. Students on assistantships must take 9 credit hours per semester (Fall, Spring) to satisfy the university's requirement for full-time status. Most students working full time take 6 credit hours per semester. At that rate, the program can be completed in 6 semesters or less. However, students with more time available and with an early start on a thesis, if applicable, can finish the program in 3 semesters. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CECS-Industrial-Engineering-MS.pdf. Please note: Industrial Engineering (MS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Program Prerequisites The Industrial Engineering MS program requires an undergraduate degree in engineering, mathematics, computer science, statistics, physics, quantitative management or similar field. Outstanding students with degrees in other disciplines such as business, economics or computer/information sciences may also be considered on a case-by-case basis, provided they have significant work experience and/or very high academic standing. Regardless of the undergraduate degree, all applicants must have completed the following prerequisites: Mathematics through Calculus II (MAC 2312 or equivalent) An undergraduate course in engineering probability and statistics. In addition, they are expected to be familiar with at least one programming language (such as C, FORTRAN, Java, Visual BASIC, C++, etc.) and common computer skills and tools such as word processors and spreadsheets. Degree Requirements Required Courses 12 Total Credits Complete the following: ESI5219 - Engineering Statistics (3) EIN5140 - Project Engineering (3) EIN6357 - Advanced Engineering Economic Analysis (3) ESI6551 - Systems Engineering (3) IEMS Electives 12 Total Credits All students, both thesis and nonthesis, must take 12 credit hours of electives after consultation with their adviser. The program requirements are flexible enough to allow the students to tailor the coursework according to their desired educational and career goals. With the approval of their adviser and/or the graduate program director, students may select from the following groups of courses to satisfy the needs of their research goals or career objectives. To assist the students in achieving these goals and objectives, courses are grouped below to suggest focus areas, only as a guide to assist in advising and course selection. They are not intended to restrict elective choices among specialization areas as the intent of the program is to help graduate students maintain an integrated approach to their studies. The listing of these courses does not guarantee that they will be offered by the department in a particular year or semester. In addition to the courses listed below, students may be allowed to take courses from the following disciplines at UCF, with the approval of the graduate program director, as an elective in their graduate program of study: Other Engineering programs Computer Science Mathematics Statistics Business Administration or Management Focus Areas 12 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Human Systems Engineering/Ergonomics Earn at least 12 credits from the following: EIN5248 - Ergonomics (3) EIN5251 - Usability Engineering (3) EIN6258 - Human Computer Interaction (3) EIN6271 - Human Reliability (3) Quality and Production Systems Earn at least 12 credits from the following: ESI6225 - Quality Design and Control (3) ESI6224 - Quality Management (3) EIN6336 - Production and Inventory Control (3) EIN5356 - Cost Engineering (3) ESI5227 - Total Quality Improvement (3) ESI6247 - Experimental Design and Taguchi Methods (3) Management Systems Earn at least 12 credits from the following: EIN6182 - Engineering Management (3) EIN5117 - Management Information Systems I (3) EIN6370 - Innovation in Engineering Design (3) EIN6339 - Operations Engineering (3) EIN5108 - The Environment of Technical Organizations (3) Simulation, Optimization and Modeling Earn at least 12 credits from the following: ESI6336 - Queueing Systems (3) ESI5306 - Operations Research (3) ESI6418 - Linear Programming and Extensions (3) ESI6532 - Object-Oriented Simulation (3) ESI5531 - Discrete Systems Simulation (3) EIN5255C - Interactive Simulation (3) EIN6528 - Simulation Based Life Cycle Engineering (3) EIN6936 - Seminar in Advanced Industrial Engineering (3) ESI6217 - Statistical Aspects of Digital Simulation (3) Systems Engineering Earn at least 12 credits from the following: ESI6358 - Decision Analysis (3) ESI5359 - Risk Assessment and Management (3) EIN6215 - System Safety Engineering and Management (3) EIN5346 - Engineering Logistics (3) ESI6891 - IEMS Research Methods (3) ESI5236 - Reliability Engineering (3) Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: EIN 6971 Thesis The thesis option requires 6 credit hours of thesis. Thesis students must complete an independent research study and write and successfully defend a thesis according to program guidelines. The College of Engineering and Computer Science requires that all thesis defense announcements are approved by the student's adviser and posted on the college's website (http://www.cecs.ucf.edu/graddefense/) and on the College of Graduate Studies Events Calendar at least two weeks before the defense date. Nonthesis Option Complete all of the following Complete the following: EIN6950 - Industrial and Systems Engineering Capstone (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Elective Course. The nonthesis option requires a capstone course and an additional unrestricted elective course that supports the student's area of research and study interests. The capstone course should be completed toward the end of the student's graduate plan of study. As part of the requirements of this courses, students will complete an independent capstone project on a topic relevant to the industrial and systems engineering field and approved by the instructor. Students are expected to use and leverage knowledge obtained in the program to complete the project. This course serves as the culminating experience for students and shows their engagement in independent learning. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirement, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Résumé or Curriculum Vita Goal statement The goal statement should discuss all relevant professional background and any previous research and/or teaching experience. The statement should explain the motivation behind the pursuit of a Master's degree in Industrial Engineering. Future educational and career goals after the completion of the applicant's master study should be discussed. If the applicant is interested in completing a Master thesis, then the applicant must clearly describe the particular area of research interest. The applicant should identify at least one UCF faculty member who shares a similar research focus and is believed to be best suited to serve as a potential thesis advisor. The goal statement should between 500 and 1,000 words. Two letters of recommendation The letters of recommendation should be from faculty members, university administrators, and employers with a supervisory role of the applicant. The letters, which must be current to the application and must not be for another degree program, should address the educational and career goals of the applicant. The letter writers should also know the applicant well enough to discuss the applicant's capacity to perform, excel and succeed in a graduate program. Letters for Master's thesis students must discuss the applicant's ability to perform graduate-level research. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Applications are accepted for the fall and spring terms only. Faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Application Deadlines Industrial Engineering MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida