Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove 921 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Award-winning cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir joins CCM’s faculty May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Icelandic cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Thorsteinsdóttir’s appointment as Assistant Professor of Cello begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Webinar: How do I become a more resilient nurse? May 26, 2022 UC College of Nursing faculty combat the problems of burnout and compassion fatigue among nurses by discussing resilience and how to cultivate it. Scenic designer and educator Charlie Calvert joins CCM’s faculty May 26, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Charlie Calvert to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. A freelance scenic designer and educator, Calvert’s appointment as Associate Professor of Scenic Design begins on Aug. 15, 2022. WATCH: Ilya Finkelshteyn featured in latest episode of Showcase... May 24, 2022 On this episode of Showcase, Barbara is joined by Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cellist Ilya Finkelshteyn to discuss the newly obtained Montagnana Cello. Crafted by master luthier Domenico Montagnana, from Venice Italy, whose work is sought after by orchestras and collectors alike. Ilya talks about the history and impact this cello has on the CSO as well as gives us an exclusive solo performance. External email header coming to faculty, staff June 8 May 24, 2022 Beginning Wednesday, June 8, UC faculty and staff email accounts will automatically add an external email header to any incoming messages sent from a non-UC affiliated email address. Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. O’Toole co-edits book on women in pediatrics May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Jennifer O’Toole is co-editor of the book “Women in Pediatrics: The Past, Present and Future.” 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. Cincinnati Business Courier: Filak’s own medical practice lends... May 23, 2022 The Cincinnati Business Courier profiled Andrew Filak, MD, dean of the UC College of Medicine. Environmental engineer named Distinguished Research Professor May 19, 2022 Dion Dionysiou is a University of Cincinnati professor of environmental engineering. He received a University Faculty Award for Distinguished Research for his work addressing water pollution, conservation and treatment. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Local 12: Mobile stroke unit sees success May 19, 2022 Local 12 highlighted the University of Cincinnati's Christopher T. Richards and the UC Health mobile stroke unit, which has been dispatched more than 1,100 times since launching in August 2020. UC Blue Ash professor reflects on parenthood in award-winning... May 18, 2022 Kevin Oberlin dives into his experiences as a new parent, both the worry and wonderment, in Steamboat Alley, his new chapbook of poems that received the 2021 Heartland Review Chapbook Prize in poetry. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top