Skip to main content Restrict my search to Equal Opportunity Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) About EOS Staff Anti-Discrimination Anti-Discrimination Policy Anti-Discrimination Coordinators Anti-Discrimination Resources Anti-Discrimination FAQs Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy Consensual Relationship Policy Title IX Coordinators Title IX Resources SB 212 ADA/Section 504 Policies: Student & Employee Policy for Students Policy for Employees ADA Coordinators ADA Resources ADA FAQs EIR Accessibility EIRA Policy EIRA Coordinators EIRA Resources Blackboard Ally Accessibility Terms Defined Self-Guided Learning Access University Accessibility Options EIRA FAQs EIRA Regulations Workforce Diversity Workforce Diversity Policy Workforce Diversity Resources Workforce Diversity FAQs Contact Us UH Home Equal Opportunity Services Workforce Diversity FAQs Equal Opportunity Services About EOS Anti-Discrimination Title IX Sexual Misconduct ADA EIR Accessibility Workforce Diversity Policy Resources FAQs Contact Us Translation Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Services The University of Houston 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713-743-8835 eos@uh.edu Workforce Diversity FAQs Affirmative Action What is the difference between Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity? Equal Opportunity prohibits discrimination on the basis of protected classes such as race, color, religion, gender, age, national origin, veteran status, genetic information, and disability. Affirmative Action refers to positive courses of action taken by organizations in their recruitment, employment, retention, and promotion efforts to overcome the effects of past discrimination against underrepresented groups such as women, minorities, veterans, and persons with disabilities. Affirmative Action requires organizations to actively seek measures to remove any barriers that artificially limit the professional and personal development of individuals who are members of protected classes. Affirmative recruitment steps should be taken to increase the number and percentage of applications from qualified women, minorities, veterans, and persons with disabilities for position vacancies. What are some examples of Affirmative Action measures? using recruitment methods likely to expand the pool of candidates for job openings. evaluating and updating selection tools and criteria to ensure their relevance to job performance. revising traditional measures of merit to better recognize talent and performance under varying conditions. What is an Affirmative Action Program? A written affirmative action program is required of all federal contractors holding contracts of $50,000 or more and with 50 or more employees. Affirmative Action Programs are designed to provide ways to measure hiring, training, and promotional opportunities for qualified minorities and women in all parts of an organization. An Affirmative Action Program is prepared annually by the Office of Equal Opportunity Services. Recruiting I am about to advertise a vacant position. Do I have to put an EEO/AA statement at the bottom of the ad? Yes, all advertisements must include the following statement: The University of Houston is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer. Minorities, women, veterans, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Please contact EOS if you need suggested language for an EEO/AA statement. Can I ask a person in an interview if they have any disabilities? No, you cannot gather information about a person’s disability status or if they should require an accommodation until after a job offer has been extended and accepted. However, if the individual requires an accommodation during the interview process, they must be provided with one and this information cannot be utilized in the hiring decision. How can I learn more about the "Dos and Don'ts" of the recruitment and selection process? Contact EOS at 713-743-8835, and a representative will meet with your search committee to provide guidance tailored to your search needs. Make a Report Request an Accommodation Request a Training Get Involved Quick Exit Equal Opportunity Services 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713.743.8835 eos@uh.edu A-Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Human Resources Libraries Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies