Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Psychology and Neuroscience Menu Main Nav Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Psychology and Neuroscience Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Openings Psychology Colloquium Series Giving to Psychology and Neuroscience News and Notes News Archive 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 In the Media 2009-2016 Related Links Faculty Directory Labs People Undergraduate Overview The Psychology and Neuroscience Majors Courses Academic Opportunities Research Participation Credits Related Links Major Requirements Course Information and Schedule Undergraduate Admission Job Postings Graduate Overview Fifth Year M.A. Program Doctoral Program Graduate Alumni Graduate Student Publications Courses Research Overview Labs Postdoctoral Research Fellows Diversity and Inclusion Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Home Undergraduate The Psychology and Neuroscience Majors Undergraduate The Psychology and Neuroscience Majors Courses Academic Opportunities Research Participation Credits The Psychology and Neuroscience Majors The Psychology Department offers three majors: the Psychology Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) major, the Psychology Bachelor of Science (B.S.) major, and the Neuroscience Bachelor of Science (B.S.) major. All three degree options introduce students to the broad range of topics that psychologists study, while also allowing students to choose an individualized course of study and focus on some aspects of psychology and neuroscience in greater depth. Each option allows students to gain research experience working in one or more of our research labs. Psychology B.A. and Psychology B.S. The Psychology B.A. and the Psychology B.S. majors are particularly suited to students who wish to understand human behavior and mental function. Students will take Psychology courses relevant to social, developmental, biological, and cognitive psychology and will learn how animal models can be used to inform human behavior. Together these courses will provide students with an appreciation for the theories that have been put forth to explain human behavior and for the importance of considering clinical, cultural, social, biological, and developmental factors when trying to understand why humans think, feel, and act as they do. Both degree options introduce students to the broad range of topics that psychologists study, while also allowing students to choose an individualized course of study and focus on some aspects of psychology in greater depth. Psychology B.S. The Psychology B.S. is a research-focused track. Students interested in psychology as it relates to other scientific disciplines and/or who are planning to pursue research-focused graduate work (e.g., Ph.D., M.D.) are encouraged to select the B.S. major. B.S. students will take courses in Psychology and choose from elective co-requisites in departments including Economics, Computer Science, Biology, Chemistry, and Physics. Together these courses will provide students with an in-depth understanding of the scientific study of the human mind and with opportunities for exposure to hands-on, laboratory science. This major is well-suited for students interested in a research-based approach to psychology. For students who are more likely to pursue graduate work without a focus on research (e.g., social work, law, Psy.D., Ed.D.) and/or would like greater flexibility in their course schedule, the B.A. may be more appropriate. Neuroscience B.S. The Neuroscience B.S. major is a research-focused degree for students who are interested in understanding the biological basis of brain function in relation to thought and behavior. The major has co-requisites in Biology and Chemistry as well as elective natural science co-requisites. It emphasizes exposure to hands-on, laboratory science. Students will take courses that are related to evolution, genetics, physiology, neurobiology, and the neural basis of higher cognitive and emotional processes in humans. Together these courses will provide students with a strong foundation in the neurobiological processes that underlie behavior, motivation, and cognition. The Neuroscience major covers many of the requirements for premed. Major Requirements The University Catalog contains the most up-to-date description of major requirements. The Psychology Department does not offer a minor in Psychology or Neuroscience. Back To Top Back To Top Department of Psychology and Neuroscience McGuinn 300 617-552-4100 psychoffice@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Psychology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College