Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Veterans Resource Office Division of Student Affairs Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Veterans Resource OfficeOpen main menu Close Open search Home Benefits/Forms/Resources Back Benefits, Forms & Resources Certification Forms & Information Federal Financial Aid Utah Department of Veterans Affairs VA Benefits Call-Ups/Leave of Absence Veteran Student Support (VITAL) Reintegration Back Reintegration Overview Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Campus Recreation Outdoor Recreation Program (ORP) Vet Center About Cache Valley Beaver Mountain Ski Area Supporter Resources Back Supporter Resources Faculty/Staff Family/Friends DOD/MOU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Veterans Resource Office Utah State University's Division of Student Affairs is appreciative of your service to our country and happy that you have decided to pursue a degree here at USU. We look forward to doing our part to help you achieve success while you are here. Returning to civilian and family life can be an adjustment; you are not alone. Utah State has dedicated staff and faculty members who have educated themselves about the unique challenges faced by veterans, some of whom are returning veterans themselves. The Veterans Resource Office (VRO) was created to assist USU student veterans in their transition and adjustment from the military to academia and civilian life. The VRO serves as the central clearing house for veterans that need information or assistance regarding their VA benefits, USU related topics or civilian matters. The VRO is also a place where veterans can gather and network with other veterans on campus in an environment that accepts and supports the unique aspects of military and veteran culture. Please stop in to find out more about the VRO, your input and involvement is welcome and enhances the USU veteran and military affiliated community. Mission Statement The Veterans Resource Office provides veterans, service members and their families with the highest level of support as they pursue their academic, career and personal goals at Utah State University. Through education, outreach and peer support, we will provide access to available resources on campus, in the community and through the VA. Goals & Objectives Assist individuals with the transition from service to academic life. Educate individuals about financial resources available to students and veterans. Advocate on behalf of students when necessary. Collaborate with other University and community entities to provide resources and opportunities for veteran students. Establish a mentoring program utilizing fellow students and faculty. Educate the campus and community on veterans' affairs. VRO Services School Certifying Officials for Enrollment Certification Veterans Benefits Assistance Peer Mentoring Free Tutoring Free Computer Lab and Printing Free Coffee and Lounge Access Lending Library Telehealth Private Space Work Study Opportunities and More! Veterans Benefits Apply for VA Benefits Find more information above on the Benefits/Form/Resources tab Ch. 30- Montgomery GI Bill® (Active Duty-MGIB-AD) Ch. 31- Veterans Rehabilitation & Employment (VR&E) Ch.33- Post 9/11 GI Bill® (active duty or VET) Ch.33- Post 9/11 GI Bill® (spouse/dependent) Ch.35- Survivors and Dependents Assistance (DEA) Ch.1606- Montgomery GI Bill® (Selected Reserve-MGIB-SR) Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship Yellow Ribbon Program Tuition Assistance Top Up (Only available for Recipients of MGIB-AD and Post 9/11 GI Bill®) Tutorial Assistance (Reimbursement for Tutoring) Cache Valley Veterans Association USU is fortunate to have the Cache Valley Veterans Association (CVVA), a Veterans 501c19 Veterans Non-Profit right here in Logan. They provide services and projects to assist Veterans in the Cache Valley Community and Franklin County Utah. The programs, services and projects are provided free to all Veterans, Service membeers and their families. Some of their projects include: Homeless Veteran Transition Program, Veterans Service Animal Project, Operation Veterans Rebuild, Honor Guard Services, Veteran Transition Program and more. Visit the CVVA at 1760 North 200 East, Suite 100. Phone number is 435-213-9098 The CVVA has a suicide hotline and texting at 435-938-2087. Wells Fargo Veterans Scholarship Program Wells Fargo is strongly invested in supporting our nation’s veterans, including a commitment to assist them in completing postsecondary education programs to help them return to, and succeed in, a competitive job market. They offer the Veterans Scholarship Program and Veterans Emergency Grant Program. We are happy to announce that recently, one of our own students, Katelyn Oetken was awarded the Veterans Scholarship. "I was thrilled to learn about my selection of the Wells Fargo Veterans Scholarship. I greatly appreciate the support Wells Fargo gives our military and military students like myself." Congratulations Katelyn! Wells Fargo Scholarship Program Equine Assisted Therapy Research Equine Therapy Research Study Veterans with a diagnosis of PTSD can participate in an equine program research study. See Flyer For Details Equine Assisted Therapy An equine-assisted therapy research study at Utah State University in conjunction with VA in Salt Lake City. No prior horse experience necessary. See Flyer for Details Contact Us Location Taggart Student Center, Suite 225 Mailing Address Veterans Resource Office 0106 Old Main Hill Logan UT 84322-0106 Phone, Email & Hours Main: (435) 797-7886 Peer Support: (435) 797-0405 Email: veteransresources@usu.edu Computer and Lounge Access Hours: Monday-Friday 8am-5pm School Certifying Official Hours: Monday-Friday 9am-5pm, walk-ins welcome Staff Senior School Certifying Official: Tana Beckstead Senior School Certifying Official: Rebecca Tyler Office Manager/School Certifying Official : Paul Klimack VA Work-Study: Jon Gutierrez, Kenneth Bruderer, Andrew Hamlin, Kayla Edelman, Mitchel Nelson and Sathit Niensiri You served us... it's our turn to serve you! News Read Story November 8, 2021 Veterans Resources Office Director Tony Flores Featured in Guest Column Veterans Resource Office Director, Tony Flores, provided a guest column in the Utah Statesman student newspaper talking about his experience as a veteran. Read Story November 6, 2021 Veterans Resources Office Provides Comradery USU Veterans come together to build community and comradery in the Veterans Resource Office. Read Story June 24, 2021 New Staff Join VRO To help support veterans pursue their educational goals, two new faces have joined the Veterans Resource Office at Utah State University — Tana Beckstead and Rebecca Tyler — as school certifying officials. More Stories Veterans Resource Office CONTACT 0106 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-0106 veteransresources@usu.edu PHONE NUMBERS Main: (435) 797-7886 Peer Support: (435) 797-0405 Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page