Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact R1 Impact Baylor>Research>R1 Impact R1 Impact In higher education, R1 research institutions stand apart. These elite research universities impact the world through top tier research that addresses society's greatest challenges. On December 16, 2021, Baylor's long-pursued goal of R1 recognition became a reality, earning the designation as a doctoral institution with "very high research activity" by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. What does this honor mean, and how will it shape the University's future? Baylor faculty and administrators unpack the ways Baylor's status as a preeminent Christian research university will impact our campus, the Baylor Family and the world. Apr. 6, 2022 The Meaning of R1 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Read More Mar. 30, 2022 The Community Impact of R1 Nationally-recognized researcher Sara Dolan is an APA "Citizen Psychologist" who has seen firsthand the how research and scholarship can support community wellbeing. She says Baylor's R1 attainment will open new doors to serve the community. Read More Feb. 17, 2022 WATCH: Baylor's Journey to R1 Baylor's pursuit of R1 recognition became official in 2019, but the roots of the the University's elite R1 attainment date back more than 20 years. See how visionary moves and a purposeful path guided Baylor to preeminence as a Christian research university. Read More Jan. 31, 2022 University-Wide Alignment Key in Baylor’s R1 Recognition Vice Provost for Research Kevin Chambliss explains how alignment from Baylor administration, faculty and staff advanced Baylor's R1 aspirations and rapid attainment. Read More Jan. 25, 2022 A Preeminent Christian Research University Daniel Romo, The Schotts Professor of Chemistry and Co-Director of the Baylor Synthesis and Drug-Lead Discovery Laboratory at Baylor, discusses the pursuit of research excellence and discovery at a faith-based R1 university. Read More Jan. 25, 2022 Baylor’s R1 Attainment an Elite Elevation in Higher Education When Baylor earned R1 recognition at the end of 2021, the University joined an elite group of research institutions. Erica Bruce, associate professor of environmental science, explains the meaning of R1 in higher education and beyond. Read More Jan. 14, 2022 From Vision to Reality: Baylor Achieves R1 Recognition From the moment Baylor officially announced its pursuit of R1 recognition in 2019, the University has been on a purposeful path that reached an elite benchmark faster than anyone anticipated. Read More Jan. 1, 2022 LISTEN: President Livingstone on Baylor's R1 Recognition Baylor University is now an R1 research institution. The end of 2021 brought this exciting news, as this long-pursued goal became a reality. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., discusses these major benchmarks and their impact going forward. Read More R1 News Archive R1 Impact General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact