Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Women's Center Menu Main Nav Women's Center Sexual Assault Network Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Subscribe Contact Resources Programs Overview Sexual Assault Network Meet the Team Find Support Understanding Your Options Bystander Intervention Bystander Trainers Meet the Trainers Request a Presentation Black Women Matter CARE Week Dish Journey to Wellness Res Hall Talks Rise Thrive Women's Summit One Love Love Your Body Week Featured Feminists Overview Featured Feminist Archive Sexual Assault Network Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Sexual Assault Network Home Programs Sexual Assault Network Sexual Assault Network Meet the Team Find Support Understanding Your Options Sexual Assault Network (SANet) Dedicated to Empowerment, Committed to Advocacy The mission of the Boston College Sexual Assault Network (SANet) is to support those who have been directly or indirectly affected by sexual violence and/or intimate partner violence. Statement of Solidarity with Survivors and the BC Community The members of the Boston College Sexual Assault Network express our solidarity with survivors and all members of the Boston College community as we confront sexual violence and misconduct. We know individua responses to news about sexual violence can be varied, complicated, and deeply personal. We are here to listen to, affirm, and empower survivors, allies, and anyone who is in need of support in the context of these challenges. Wherever you are in your journey. You can reach one of us any time by calling 617-552-2211. SANet Hotline/SANet Care Team Learning Outcomes SANet Hotline/SANet Care Team As a result of engaging in SANet's Baseline Training and Continuing Education Program, hotline advocates will be able to: Provide callers with affirming and supportive statements and psychoeducation. Explain common reactions to trauma, which callers might encounter in the aftermath of sexual misconduct. Describe on-campus and off-campus resources available to provide ongoing support, reporting mechanisms, and education. Indicate through self-assessment their levels of satisfaction with the design and implementation of the training program. Download the "You Are Not Alone" guide CARE Team walk-in hours Boston College-based SANet Advocates will be available for the 2021-2022 Academic Year beginning Thursday, August 26, 2021 for the Fall semester, and beginning Thursday, January 13, 2022 for the Spring semester. SANet Who's On Call Call the hotline at 617–552-2211 Thank you for seeking the support of the Boston College Sexual Assault Network (SANet). Boston College-based SANet Advocates will be available for the 2021-2022 Academic Year beginning Thursday, August 26, 2021 for the Fall semester, and beginning Thursday, January 13, 2022 for the Spring semester. What To Expect When Accessing Sexual Assault Network Resources SANet Hotline Team 617-552-2211 Confidential one-time phone conversation, information and referral, including to in-person services. Supportive, empathic listening from a trained responder at Boston College or local rape crisis center. Information about emotional, medical, and legal supports and academic and housing accommodations. Overview about impacts of trauma, coping strategies, and investigation options under Title IX. SANet CARE Team 617-552-8099 Confidential in-person appointments with specially trained professionals and graduate students. Brief counseling about impacts of trauma, safety, and self-care planning and the healing process. Access to hard-copy resources and connections to free and confidential on- and off-campus support systems. Accompaniment to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Student Conduct, BCPD, and other on-campus resources. SANet is available to all Boston College community members, and encourages the whole community to access this resource to support our students. In situations where students who are seeking support regarding sexual misconduct may also be responsible for Student Code of Conduct violations (e.g. possession of alcohol, COVID-related policies), the main focus of the University will be to respond to the report of sexual misconduct. “SANet provided a safety net that I knew was always there if I needed it.” Boston College Student Back To Top Back To Top Women's Center Maloney 441 617-552-3489 About Programs Featured Feminists Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College