Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Other Drugs Ecstasy What is ecstasy? Ecstasy (aka: disco biscuits, molly, E, X, XTC) is the name for MDMA (3-4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine). MDMA (and its close relation MDA) is classified as an enactogen- drugs that have stimulant, hallucinogenic and mood-improving qualities. It was originally developed as a diet aid. Before it was made illegal in 1985, it was used experimentally by mental health professionals in controlled settings to help people in couple's counseling. It began to be used illicitly in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Though ecstasy use still continues today, its use among all age groups has substantially decreased from 2014 until now. What is molly? Molly is another slang term for MDMA. It has effects similar to those of other stimulants. Molly was a term originally used to denote pure MDMA, usually powdered and in a capsule. This is no longer the case. Molly is often a mystery powder and can contain any number of substances, some of which even mimic similar effects of MDMA. These substances can also cause severe health consequences ranging from allergic responses to temperature regulation issues to panic attacks. Some common cuts (adulterants) are PMA/PMMA, Methamphetamine, 2-C(x), and Cathinones including Mephedrone, Methylone (bk-MDMA), Butylone, MDPV, and 2-MEC or 4-MEC. The information on this page applies to molly as well as ecstasy. How is ecstasy used? Ecstasy’s use is often referred to as “rolling” or “tripping x”. Ecstasy is almost always swallowed in 60 to 120 mg pills. It is very infrequently snorted or taken in a liquid form through injection. The strength and contents of Ecstasy tablets cannot be known accurately. Sometimes these pills are stamped with symbols (like clover leafs, horseshoes, or smiley faces) as underground brand names or identifying markers. However, these symbols do not mean that a pill is pure or safe. All ecstasy available on the street is produced in unregulated black market laboratories. Why do people take ecstasy? Ecstasy produces a euphoric high that lasts from 3 to 4 hours by generating a rush of serotonin and a smaller amount of dopamine, the neurotransmitters that help to regulate mood. Serotonin is the neurochemical that many antidepressants regulate. Users describe ecstasy as making them empathic, producing a temporary state of openness. Depending on its contents, ecstasy can also cause mild hallucinogenic effects. Users report that the rush of serotonin is pleasurable and produces both an emotionally relaxed and physically exhilarated state. However, this extremely fast deployment of serotonin can deplete normal serotonin levels and produce depression or malaise after the drug wears off. What are there short-term effects or risks of taking ecstasy? Pills sold as ecstasy may not be ecstasy at all. MDMA purchased on the street is frequently laced with other drugs like cocaine, heroine, PCP, or toxic chemicals like PMA and DXM, atropine, and rat poison. In a 1996 study of Ecstasy content, 19 out of 33 pills (58%) were found to contain less than 25% MDMA. Only 5 pills (15%) were more than 75% MDMA. Users report a number of side effects, including: Heatstroke (also known as hyperthermia) Nausea Muscle tension Blurred vision Faintness Chills Sweating Teeth clenching Depressive state day after consumption Ecstasy raises your body temperature and heart rate. Combine this with hot conditions, the physical activity of dancing in a party or club, and inadequate water consumption, and the greatest immediate danger of MDMA use is heatstroke. Heatstroke (or hyperthermia) is the primary cause of death from ecstasy. Someone taking ecstasy should make sure to drink about a pint of water every hour while on ecstasy, sipping, rather than drinking it all at once. Another helpful strategy would be to take breaks from dancing on a hot dance floor to cool off- this is an effective way to reduce the risk of heatstroke. Ecstasy causes the release of norepinephrine, which increases your heart rate dramatically and can be dangerous for people with cardiovascular disease or other related conditions. Dehydration can also lead to liver or kidney failure. Some people report adverse emotional reactions to ecstasy including confusion, depression, sleep problems, drug craving, severe anxiety, and paranoia; some of these symptoms may persist long after taking the drug. Using ecstasy with alcohol and/or other drugs can increase the risk of adverse effects. Alcohol can also dehydrate the body as well and its depressant effects can mask the stimulant properties of ecstasy, misleading the user about how intoxicated they really are. Some studies have indicated that people who use ecstasy are more likely to engage in other risky behaviors such as binge drinking, cigarette smoking, and having multiple sexual partners. The use of Ecstasy and other club drugs can also lead to unsafe sex, the spread of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections, and unwanted pregnancy. Are there long-term consequences to taking ecstasy? More and more research suggests that ecstasy causes endogenous serotonin levels to drop below normal, which impairs the brain's ability to learn, retain information, and regulate mood. It appears that ecstasy causes serotonin receptors, which aid in the release of serotonin in the brain, to shrink from overuse. Some evidence shows that restoration of serotonin receptors is possible with continued abstinence from the drug. However, people who have never taken ecstasy have more functional serotonin receptors than those who have. Other studies suggest that regular or heavy ecstasy use has long-term negative effects on memory and brain functioning that can persist well beyond the last pill taken (and seem to continue to increase in spite of long-term abstinence from the drug). One study found that women are particularly vulnerable to damage to the serotonin system by MDMA. How do I recognize problematic ecstasy use? Some of the signs of problematic use are: Increased use. More frequent or prolonged use of ecstasy. Tolerance. Needing more ecstasy to get the same high or reach the desired effect. Premeditation. Spending exaggerated amounts of time thinking about ecstasy. Financial instability. Spending more money than you have or intended on ecstasy. Failure to fulfill major role obligations. Missing class, work, or failing to fulfill important roles because of ecstasy use. Changing social dynamics. Making new friends who consistently use ecstasy and/or neglecting old friends who don't. Lack of life satisfaction. Finding it's hard to be happy without ecstasy. If you find that you, a friend, or a loved one can't stop using ecstasy, remember that there's always help available. Is ecstasy addictive? Heavy users whose serotonin system is regularly depleted by the drug rely on greater quantities of the drug to produce smaller and smaller effects. Because the serotonin supply is finite, repeated dosing cannot provide a stronger or lengthened high after all your serotonin has been released. A study of young adult and adolescent ecstasy users found that 43% were dependent, and 34% met the criteria for drug abuse. Almost 60% of users reported both physical and emotional withdrawal symptoms. Frequently, though, ecstasy users also use other drugs and alcohol and may be addicted to more than one drug simultaneously. Is ecstasy illegal? Yes, ecstasy is illegal and it is currently a Schedule I drug (drug with no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse). Its possession, use, and sale carry heavy prison sentences and fines, as well as disciplinary consequences at Brown. See the Brown University Policy on Drugs on the Student Rights and Responsibilities web site. How do I help a friend who's having trouble with drugs or alcohol? If you are concerned about a friend's drug or alcohol use, this page contains information about different ways to help them. Related Links DanceSafe DanceSafe promotes health and safety within the rave and nightclub community. The website has drug information, e-news archives, information on testing kits and features like Your Brain on Ecstasy. The Good Drugs Guide This British harm-reduction web site provides extensive information on ecstasy, including the basics, dangers, mixing with other drugs and links. National Institutes of Health Club Drug Site Provides trends and statistics, research reports and health information on club drugs. National Institute on Drug Abuse Resources https://www.recovery.org/topics/quitting-ecstasy/ About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook