Graduate Funding - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Graduate School Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate School COVID-19 Updates Prospective/Admitted Students Current Students Admissions Where to Begin How to Apply Programs and Colleges Online Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Program Admission Contacts and Deadlines International Students International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information GRE/GMAT Waiver Check Application Status Admitted Students Academics Graduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Online Programs Graduate Certificates Dual-Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Programs Doctoral Characteristics Graduate Program Review Academic Advising Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Student Handbook Thesis & Dissertation Outstanding Thesis Award Outstanding Dissertation Award Dissertation Accelerator CIRTL Co-curricular PD Registration International Students Where to Begin How to Apply International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information Graduate Funding How to Fund Graduate School Tuition & Fees Forms & Procedures Events Graduate Appreciation Week Calendar Graduate Orientation Graduate School Fair 3MT Ombuds About Graduate School Team Graduate & Professional Studies Committee (GPSC) Graduate & Professional Students Association (GPSA) Contact Us Contact Us FAQ's UH Home UH Graduate School Graduate Funding Graduate Funding Page contents: Scholarships Graduate Assistantships Tuition Waivers Work-Study Loan Support Spring Aid Summer Aid Financial Aid & Scholarship Forms Financial Aid by Colleges External Scholarships Scholarship Databases Financial Aid Explained How to fund graduate school There are multiple options available to graduate and professional students to fund their college at the University of Houston. Graduate funding is available in the form of scholarships, assistantships, grants, work-study, and loan support. In addition, there are numerous external resources available for students to obtain funding for their respective programs. Scholarships All domestic students must complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to be eligible for the scholarships listed below. Expand AllCollapse All Graduate Tuition Fellowship The Graduate Tuition Fellowship (GTF) is a competitive award program administered by the Graduate School that covers the cost of in-state tuition and mandatory fees for qualified Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA), and Masters of Fine Arts (MFA) students. Selections for these fellowships are made by each respective college. Amount Covers the cost of in-state tuition and mandatory fees for full-time enrollment of nine (9) credit hours per term (fall and spring); some amounts may vary by college/department, click the corresponding link below for more information on your college's GTF policies. This award is non-refundable and will be adjusted if the scholarship amount exceeds the actual cost of a student's in-state tuition and mandatory fees. Eligibility Complete the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) annually and if selected, complete the verification process Must be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen to be eligible to complete a FAFSA Possess an undergraduate degree or its equivalent and be admitted to a Ph.D., DMA, or MFA degree program. Maintain full-time enrollment (enroll and complete a minimum of nine (9) credit hours during an academic term (fall and spring)). Minimum academic standing requirements: Begin doctoral program with a minimum cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0. Maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0. Demonstrate satisfactory progress in course work, and timely progress in completing the degree requirements as defined by the enrolling graduate program. Note: Degree requirements include both course work and thesis/dissertation. Click the corresponding link below for more information on your college's GTF policies. Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts C.T. Bauer College of Business College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences College of Education Cullen College of Engineering Hilton College of Hotel & Restaurant Management College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics College of Optometry College of Pharmacy GTF Policy Graduate College of Social Work Graduate School Fund The Graduate School Fund (GSF) provides financial assistance for state of Texas resident graduate students who demonstrate financial need. Amount Award amounts will be based on a student's financial need, enrollment level, and the availability of funds. The GSF can only be applied to the cost of tuition and mandatory fees. This award is non-refundable and will be adjusted if the scholarship amount exceeds the actual cost of a student's tuition and mandatory fees. Students who have a Graduate Tuition Fellowship (GTF) are not eligible to receive the GSF. Eligibility Be a U.S. citizen or noncitizen who is eligible to complete a FAFSA For the 2022-23 academic year, priority consideration will be given to students who completed a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) annually and if selected, completed the verification process by April 15th. Funds are limited and, therefore, are offered on a first come, first offered basis. Demonstrate financial need Be classified as a Texas resident Be a degree-seeking graduate student, enrolled in a minimum of 6 credit hours during a long term (Fall/Spring), according to the policy set in the Graduate Catalog Demonstrate Satisfactory Academic Progress in course work, and timely progress in completing the degree requirements, including both course work and thesis/dissertation (Students who do not meet SAP will only be eligible for GSF with an approved SAP appeal.) Not be the recipient of a Graduate Tuition Fellowship (GTF) or any other tuition exclusive waiver or fund Maximum award amounts will be determined based on your enrollment and financial need: Enrollment Maximum Amount 9 or more credit hours $2,500 per long term 7 to 8 credit hours $2,200 per long term 6 credit hours $1,675 per long term Less than 6 credit hours Not Eligible Application Submit a FAFSA for the 2021-2022 academic year. To complete a FAFSA and find out more information, visit fafsa.gov. Houston Endowment and Presidential Fellowship The Presidential and Houston Endowment Fellowships were established to assist programs to identify and recruit highly-qualified PhD students. These two-year (Presidential)/five-year (Houston Endowment) fellowships are available to students entering doctoral programs at the University of Houston. Selections for these fellowships are made by each respective college. Presidential Endowed Fellowships Carey C. Shuart Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Carey C. Shuart Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the School of Art is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Chancellor/President Arthur K. Smith & First Lady June D. Smith Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Chancellor/President Arthur K. Smith & First Lady June D. Smith Presidential Endowed Fellowship is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Preference is given to those whose degree objective is the doctorate. Selections for this fellowship are made by the colleges. Florence Clemenger Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Florence Clemenger Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the Graduate College of Social Work is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Preference is given to those whose degree objective is the doctorate. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. John L. Bear Presidential Endowed Fellowship The John L. Bear Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. June L. Chin Presidential Endowed Fellowship The June L. Chin Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston and are renewable for six years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Lourdes M. and Nicanora C. Cuellar Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Lourdes M. and Nicanora C. Cuellar Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for six years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Nicky R. and Lisa K. Holdeman Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Nicky R. and Lisa K. Holdeman Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the College of Optometry is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for six years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Preference is given to those whose degree objective is the doctorate. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Robert F. Lietzow Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Robert F. Lietzow Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the Moores School of Music is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Preference is given to those whose degree objective is the doctorate. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Sharon Ley Lietzow Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Sharon Ley Lietzow Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the Moores School of Music is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Preference is given to those whose degree objective is the doctorate. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Virginia Thompson Symons Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Virginia Thompson Symons Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the Cullen College of Engineering in Environment Engineering is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Preference is given to those whose degree objective is the doctorate. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. WalMart Health and Wellness Presidential Endowed Fellowship The WalMart Health and Wellness Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for six years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Yu-Wen Diana Huang Presidential Endowed Fellowship The Yu-Wen Diana Huang Presidential Endowed Fellowship in the Gerald D. Hines College of Archietecture is intended to recruit exceptional graduate students. Fellowships are limited to students entering graduate programs at the University of Houston during the fall term and are renewable for two years provided the student continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Selections for this fellowship are made by the college. Graduate School Stella L. Ehrhardt Scholarship The Graduate School Stella L. Ehrhardt Scholarship is a two-year fellowship available to master's students at the University of Houston. Selections for this scholarship are made by each respective college. Amount $1,200 annually (renewable for up to two years while enrolled in a master's program), as funds are available. Students who are non-residents or international will also qualify for a non-resident tuition waiver. Eligibility Complete the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) annually and if selected, complete the verification process Must be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen to be eligible to complete a FAFSA Possess an undergraduate degree or its equivalent and be enrolled in master's degree program. Maintain full-time enrollment (enroll and complete a minimum of nine (9) credit hours during an academic term (fall and spring) in a master's program). Maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0. Demonstrate satisfactory progress in course work, and timely progress in completing the degree requirements as defined by the enrolling graduate program. Note: Degree requirements include both course work and thesis/dissertation. Graduate School Research Incentive Cullen Fund The Graduate School Research Incentive Cullen Fund provides support for student research initiatives, at the doctoral level only. Amount One-time award of up to $1,000. Eligibility The following minimum requirements must be met to qualify for a Graduate School Research Incentive Cullen Fund: Pursuing a doctorate degree, and not in graduating term GRS participant (does not exclude GRS winners) Minimum cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0 Full-time enrollment (enroll and complete a minimum of 9 credit hours) Application Applicants must attach the following documents through the ticket form below: Statement of research focus Explanation of how the Graduate School Research Incentive Cullen Fund will support research (i.e. thesis/dissertation, culminating project and/or field based work) Explain how funds will be used for data collection If Human Subjects are involved in your research, you must obtain approval from the Institutional Review Board (IRB). Please follow the link below for more information. Log into AccessUH Click on the “ICON” icon Submit documents that are relevant to your research. Use the following link to determine which documents you will need to submit. https://www.uh.edu/research/compliance/irb/policies/ Committee members will then review your submission to determine approval. Budget sheet Budget narrative detailing costs included on budget sheet Deadlines Not accepting applications at this time Deliverables If selected, applicants must complete the following after research in order to receive funding: Research dates Follow up report will need to be submitted within 30 days after conclusion of research Cullen Fellowship Travel Grant The Cullen Fellowship Travel Grant (CFTG) is a competitive fellowship program established to support graduate student travel to meetings, conferences, performances, and exhibits to showcase their research and scholarly work. This travel grant program is designed both to enhance professional development opportunities for students and to further promote the status of the University of Houston as a Carnegie-designated Tier One research university. The CFTG is open to all masters, doctorate, and professional students. Amount This fund is a reimbursement award and will reimburse the student upon submission of the deliverables. Doctorate/Professional: CFTG will cover up to 75% allowable travel expenses (hotel or conference housing, transportation, registration costs) or up to $750.00, whichever is less. Masters: CFTG will cover up to $500 of allowable travel expenses (hotel or conference housing, transportation, registration costs). Eligibility The following minimum requirements must be met to qualify for the Cullen Fellowship Travel Grant: Doctorate/Professional: The applicant’s work must be accepted to be presented at a competitive meeting, conference, performance, or exhibit. If the work has been submitted but an acceptance has not yet been received, the applicant may still submit a travel grant application; however, any award is contingent on acceptance. Only travel to the events with competitive selection criteria for the participants is supported by this travel grant; Event dates must occur within the travel dates for the application term The applicant’s college/department/program has to commit to cover a minimum of 25% of the conference costs. Preference will be given to students who have not previously received travel grant funding. Students may only receive one travel award in a calendar year. Masters: The applicant’s work must be accepted to be presented at a competitive meeting, conference, performance, or exhibit. If the work has been submitted but an acceptance has not yet been received, the applicant may still submit a travel grant application; however, any award is contingent on acceptance. Only travel to the events with competitive selection criteria for the participants is supported by this travel grant; Event dates must occur within the travel dates for the application term Preference will be given to students who have not previously received travel grant funding. Students may only receive one travel award in a calendar year. *Only travel permitted by University of Houston travel guidelines is eligible for an award: https://uh.edu/covid-19/guidelines-protocols/travel-guidelines/ . You may be asked to provide additional documentation that your travel has been approved according to UH policies before being eligible to receive the award. Application Applicants must attach all the following documents, in order, as one PDF file. The file naming convention must be labeled as "Last Name, First Name (PeopleSoft ID)" through the ticket form below: Fully completed Cover Sheet (Please note: Doctorate/Professional applicants must gather the necessary signatures from the Department/College by the deadline) Curriculum Vitae (CV)- 2 page maximum Abstract Written description by the applicant of the event detailing the following: event selectivity, what it means to be “invited” to the event, and the applicant’s research that will be presented (1 page maximum) Support letter from the applicant’s faculty advisor or graduate chair attesting the following: quality of the work presented, quality/prestige of the event, event selectivity, what it means to be “invited”, and how the event participation is directly related to the applicant’s work at the University of Houston Conference host letter (scanned copy of paper letter or email is acceptable) with the applicant’s name clearly listed as a presenter or performer to verify the student’s acceptance to participate in the event. Deadlines Due to the wide-ranging schedules of conferences, there is one deadline per term for Cullen Fellowship Travel Grant applications. There will be a 3-4 week review period following these deadlines. Applications must be received by 11:59PM CST on the deadline provided below. October 14, 2022 (for travel commencing on or after October 14, 2022) February 1, 2023 (for travel commencing on or after February 1, 2023) Selection Criteria The following factors will be evaluated to determine the funding priority of applications: The impact and selectivity of the conference. The potential for the student to disseminate his/her work broadly through the conference. The abstract and statement. The student’s academic standing, research experience, and support letter. Previous funding- students who have received a prior travel award from the Graduate School will be given lower priority for funding relative to students who have not previously received travel grant funding. Deliverables If selected, recipients must complete the following after travel in order to receive reimbursement: Based on format presented at the event, submit the following corresponding document within 30 days for returning from travel: Talk: Fully completed paper Poster:PDF file of the poster Workshop:A short story detailing the events of the workshop Final Travel Report Application and participation in the annual UH Graduate School research event (3MT and/or poster session). *If the recipient fails to apply/participate in the GRS event or an approved alternate event, the CFTG award may be revoked Additional Resources Traveling abroad? The Learning Abroad office at the University of Houston is officially designated as a U.S. Passport Acceptance Facility by the U.S. Department of State. Their acceptance agents are authorized to facilitate and receive your applications for a U.S. passport book and/or card. Visit the Passport for Coogs website for additional information. Graduate Research Showcase The University of Houston Graduate School hosts the university-wide Graduate Research Showcase. This event is intended to showcase the breadth and depth of groundbreaking research being undertaken by UH graduate students across disciplines, as well as to offer opportunities for cross-disciplinary networking. The event will feature a poster session and an oral session in the form of a 3MT® competition. Graduate student winners from each category will be eligible to receive scholarship awards ranging from $250 to $1000. You must be present at the Awards ceremony to receive the scholarship if you are selected as a first, second, or third place winner. Amount 1st Place: $1,000 2nd Place: $750 3rd Place: $500 Date: TBA Time: TBA Location: TBA Agenda Poster Session: TBA 3MT® Finals and Awards Ceremony: TBA Reception: TBA Application Visit the GRS website for more information on how to apply. Cullen Graduate Student Success Fellowship The Graduate School, in collaboration with the Graduate and Professional Student Association (GPSA), is offering the Cullen Graduate Student Success Fellowship. This fellowship will provide funds to support graduate and professional student success in academic endeavors including research, teaching and creative work. This award is open to master’s, doctoral and professional students. The Cullen Graduate Student Success Fellowship will provide funding for support of the following activities. This fellowship may cover expenses related to academics and/or research, such as software, registration costs for virtual conferences, materials needed for academic projects or workshops, and other similar expenses. Amount One-time scholarship award of $100-$500. Eligibility Students must be registered in a graduate or professional program and must be in good academic standing in their program with a gpa of 3.0 or higher. Selection Criteria Members of the GPSA will review applications and will make funding recommendations to the Dean of the Graduate School. Priority will be given to students who have the greatest need, have been negatively impacted by the ongoing pandemic and/or are nearing degree completion. Priority will be given to students who have not received the CGSSF award previously. Application Applicants must include the following information in an essay of no more than 500 words total (please attach file in pdf format): Describe what the award will be used for, the need for the award and how the award will support your academic success. Explain specifically how funds will be used and provide an approximate budget detailing the projected costs. Other factors (negative impact of pandemic, progress to graduation, financial need). Attach a 1 pg resume in pdf format. Deadlines Not accepting applications at this time. Graduate Assistantships Graduate student assistantships encompass the positions of teaching fellow, teaching assistant, instructional assistant, research assistant, and graduate assistant. Graduate students must meet minimal university requirements to be eligible for a graduate assistantship. For university policies on graduate assistantships, please refer to the graduate catalog. Tuition Waivers The University of Houston extends to students any waivers and exemptions for which they qualify. The university reserves the right to evaluate each individual waiver and exemption for compliance with existing regulations and will base any decision on the merit of such review. Waiver Request Deadline All students seeking waivers must submit any applications accompanied by supporting documentation no later than the Official Census Date of the semester/term in which they are currently enrolled. This is generally the 12th class day of a regular semester/term and the 4th class day of a shorter term/session. Waivers will not be granted for prior semesters/terms. The following represent the most common waivers available to students as fully described in Chapter 54 of the Texas Education Code: 54.364 Blind and Deaf Students 54.301 Highest Ranking High School Graduates 54.365 Senior Citizens 54.351 Children of Disabled Firefighters and Peace Officers 54.343 Children of Prisoners of War or Persons Missing In Action 54.341 Hazlewood 54.212 Employee Waiver 54.213 Competitive Waiver More information on tuition and fees exemptions and waivers can be accessed here Tuition Waiver Work-Study If you're eligible for financial aid at the University of Houston, your financial aid package could include a work-study* award. Work-study jobs go to students with demonstrated financial need, and most students can work 12 to 20 hours each week during the academic year. This award provides you the opportunity to search and apply for College Work-Study (CWS) jobs through University Career Services' Cougar Pathway. Visit University Career Services' website for more information on work-study jobs and how to apply. *Any scholarship counts as a financial resource and must be considered when constructing a student award package. Total student aid cannot exceed a student’s cost of attendance. The cost of attendance (COA) is an estimate of what it costs the typical student to attend the University of Houston. Your COA includes tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, transportation and personal expenses. University of Houston awards are subject to change depending on the entire student award package and the students’ COA. Loan Support Educational loans come from a variety of sources. The federal government, for example, sponsors several loan programs that offer below-market interest rates and other beneficial features. Other loan options, such as private bank loans, provide valuable help to students who may not qualify for federal loans. Even our own Dean of Students Office offers short-term emergency loans to current students. Questions? Contact the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid or visit the loans website for more information. Spring Aid Click here to know about Spring aid. Summer Aid Click here to know about Summer aid. Financial Aid & Scholarship Forms Click here to know about Financial aid & scholarship forms. Financial Aid by Colleges The following is a list of financial aid segmented by college: Architecture Arts Business Education Engineering Hotel and Restaurant Management Law Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Communication Economics Philosophy Health and Human Performance Natural Sciences and Mathematics Nursing Optometry Pharmacy Public Affairs Social Work Technology External Scholarships There are thousands of scholarship opportunities available for nearly every graduate or professional student available through outside sources. Expand AllCollapse All Nationally Competitive Fellowships Search Engines: GRAPES (UCLA): https://grad.ucla.edu/funding/ Texas State search engine: https://tim.txstate.edu/graduatefundingopportunities PIVOT: https://uh.edu/research/funding-opportunities/funding-ops/ Rice University: https://graduate.rice.edu/resources/search-fellowships University of Illinois: https://apps.grad.illinois.edu/fellowship-finder/ Curated list of nationally competitive fellowships: North Carolina State: https://grad.ncsu.edu/students/fellowships-and-grants/national/ Links to Nationally Competitive Fellowships (not exhaustive) NSF GRFP (National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program) UH Curated Links to GRFP resources NIH F-31 Predoctoral Fellowships Examples Charlotte Newcombe (November) -- Ph.D., no citizenship restrictions CLIR/Mellon Fellowships for Dissertation Research in Original Sources (December) -- Ph.D., no citizenship restrictions Luce/ACLS Dissertation Fellowships in American Art(October) -- Ph.D., U.S. citizens/permanent residents Mellon/ACLS Dissertation Completion Fellowship(October) -- Ph.D., no citizenship restrictions Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Dissertation Fellowship in Buddhist Studies(November) -- Ph.D., no citizenship restrictions Social Science Research Council (SSRC) IDRF (November) -- Ph.D., no citizenship restrictions AERA Minority Dissertation Fellowship in Education Research(November) -- Ph.D., U.S. citizens/permanent residents NAEd/Spencer Dissertation Fellowship(October) -- Ph.D., no citizenship restrictions AAUW American Dissertation Fellowship (November) -- Ph.D., U.S. citizens/permanent residents AAUW International Fellowship(November) -- Master's or Doctoral, citizen of a country other than the USA Ford Foundation (November) -- Ph.D., U.S. citizens/permanent residents and DACA recipients Predoctoral Fellowships Dissertation Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellowships Fulbright U.S. Student Program(September, start work with UI International Programs in early summer) -- Master's or Ph.D., U.S. citizens/permanent residents Point Foundation Scholarship(January) -- Master's or Doctoral, any citizenship, LGBTQ applicants Resources for Writing your Fellowship Statements: Humanities advice --Writing Proposals for ACLS: http://www.acls.org/uploadedfiles/publications/programs/writing_fellowship_proposals.pdf Social Science advice – SSRC: https://www.ssrc.org/publications/view/7A9CB4F4-815F-DE11-BD80-001CC477EC70/ Cornell advice: https://gradschool.cornell.edu/financial-support/fellowships/external-fellowships/writing-your-research-statement/ University of Washington Advice: https://grad.uw.edu/graduate-student-funding/funding-information-for-students/fellowships/applying-for-fellowships/ American Psychological Association application tips: https://www.apa.org/science/about/psa/2014/09/graduate-school-fellowships Tips on Letters of Recommendation: Cornell advice: https://gradschool.cornell.edu/financial-support/fellowships/external-fellowships/letters-of-recommendation/ Chronicle of Higher Education: https://www.chronicle.com/article/how-to-ask-for-a-recommendation/?cid2=gen_login_refresh&cid=gen_sign_in Writing a Letter of Recommendation: https://www.hhmi.org/sites/default/files/Educational%20Materials/Lab%20Management/letter.pdf Better Letters: Equitable Practices For Writing, Reading, and Soliciting Letters of Recommendation: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1frm2_RnKGbXBuF5-DLtDWUhH1tSo6Tdb/view Expand AllCollapse All General Scholarships Air & Waste Management Association- Gulf Coast Chapter Data Science Fellowship Desk & Derrick Club of Dallas Scholarships DOE Office of Science Graduate Student Research Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) Kenneth H. Ashworth Fellowship Leizer & Rose Horowitz Scholarship McNair Scholars National Science Foundation National GEM Consortium New York Engineers Paul & Daisy Soros Foundation Fellowship Pickering Foreign Affair Program Graduate Fellowship SallieMae Bridging the DreamGrad Scholarship Scholarships for Public Service Students Scholarships for Veterans & Their Families Senior Care - Aging Matters Scholarship Smithsonian Institute Fellowship University of Houston Alumni Association University of Houston Foundation Study.com Student Scholarships Scholarships for Master's Degree Students Architecture MacDowell Fellowship Business AICPA Fellowship for Minority Accounting Educators Prospanica Education Teaching Scholarships, Fellowships and Awards 101 Scholarships Just for Teachers Engineering ASME Bruce J. Heim Foundation Scholarship The Buckminster Fuller Challenge Hotel and Restaurant Management The Rama Scholarship for the American Dream AH&LEF Graduate Scholarship Tourism Cares Academic Scholarship Program Law Center There are no known External Scholarships at this time. Liberal Arts and Social Sciences There are no known External Scholarships at this time. Natural Sciences and Mathematics National Defense Science & Engineering Graduate Fellowship Optometry There are no known External Scholarships at this time. Pharmacy APhA Foundation Student Scholarship Program Public Affairs There are no known External Scholarships at this time Social Work College Scholarships.Org The College Grants Database - Social Work Scholarships for Social Work Students Technology There are no known External Scholarships at this time. Scholarship Databases ChooseEnergy College Scholarships College Tool Kit Fastweb Verified Scholarship Search Federal Student Aid Francisco Alberto Tomei Torres, PhD Site GoGrad Grants.gov Sallie Mae Online Scholarship Search Scholarship Experts.com The Free Scholarship Information Service EduBirdie Graduate Financial Aid Financial Aid Explained UH Financial Aid TV is here! Get all your questions on financial aids, grants, loans and scholarship answererd. Financial Aid TV 4302 University Dr, Rm 102 Houston, TX 77204-2012 (713) 743-5284 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Health Center Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies