Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Civil and Environmental Engineering About CEE About CEE Why Civil and Environmental Engineering? Mission & Vision Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Research Faculty Research Areas Laboratories Undergraduate Research Opportunities People News & Events ☰ Civil and Environmental Engineering ATTENTION: Application fee and GRE waivers may be available for graduate CEE applicants. Please click HERE to submit your request. About Lyle Civil and Environmental Engineering Civil and Environmental engineers design the world in which society operates. By its very nature, the profession is fundamentally service-oriented so that the world functions safely and efficiently. The Civil and Environmental Engineering Department at Lyle embodies this notion in its mission to advance learning and discovery in service to humanity. Read More Academics Faculty Research Did you know? The Civil and Environmental Engineering Department is housed in the J. Lindsay Embrey Engineering Building, named after SMU CEE alumnus J. Lindsay Embrey Jr. Embrey was an investor in the Dallas Chaparrals and Dallas Mavericks basketball franchises and the chairman of Embrey Enterprises Inc. and First Continental Inc. Undergraduate students who receive financial aid Internships Research grants Student job seekers employed at graduation Women undergraduate students School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus