Visit UCR Return to Campus website - Take the COVID Screening Check survey Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering Search BCOE Departments & Programs MARLAN AND ROSEMARY BOURNS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Bioengineering Chemical and Environmental Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Data Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Online M.S. in Engineering UC Riverside Bioengineering We Engineer Excellence Search Home Academics Graduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's Program Master's Program Online BIG Graduate Student Association Forms & Advising Graduate Courses Funding Opportunities Employment Alumni Undergraduate Program ABET Accredited Program Bioengineering Careers Applying for Admission Sample 4 Year Schedule Undergraduate Bioengineering Courses Alumni Course Offerings Research Areas of Research Biomaterials and Regenerative Medicine Biomedical Imaging Computational Bioengineering Neuroengineering Molecular and Cellular Engineering Publications Research Facilities Safety Required On-line Safety Classes Bioengineering Emergency Operation Plan Summary Incident Reporting Guidelines Videos People Faculty Cooperating Faculty BIG Faculty Lecturers Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Alumni Board of Advisors Org Chart About Message from the Chair Annual Report 2021 Links Colloquium Speakers News Vision & Mission Org Chart Employment Giving The Dimitrios Morikis Bioengineering Scholarship UCR Home BCOE Departments & Programs MARLAN AND ROSEMARY BOURNS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Bioengineering Chemical and Environmental Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Data Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Online M.S. in Engineering Welcome to the Department of Bioengineering Breadcrumb News May 06, 2022 Candy-coated pills could prevent pharmaceutical fraud Colorful nonpareils can uniquely identify drug capsules and counterfeit fashions Read More » April 05, 2022 Turmeric compound helps grow engineered blood vessels and tissues Magnetic hydrogels embedded with curcumin-coated nanoparticles promote the secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor Read More » March 22, 2022 UC Riverside program for high school students aims to diversify STEM workforce Underrepresented students will participate in carefully designed summer research and educational activities at UC Riverside Read More » January 26, 2022 Four UC Riverside professors named AAAS Fellows The honor is considered one of the highlights of a recipient’s career Read More » January 13, 2022 Robotic assistive device will lend a helping hand to infants with movement difficulties Infants and young children with motor delays may soon be able to wear robotic helpers Read More » December 08, 2021 Former Bioengineering Instructor Christine Burch Selected as One of Ten NASA Astronaut Candidates Former Bioengineering Instructor Dr. Christine Burch has been selected as one of ten 2021 NASA Astronaut Candidates. Christine lectured for UCR during the 2015 -2016 academic year and was a dynamo. At the undergraduate level, Christine taught lower level undergraduate design, biomedical optical imaging, biotechnology and biomolecular bioengineering and quantitative physiology. She also team-taught senior design and created a special topics course on automating biochemical testing. At the graduate level she taught effective writing. Christine was clearly enthusiastic about preparing students to Read More » December 03, 2021 Biocompatible glue for corneal repair is a sight for sore eyes The adhesive would replace stitches and conventional adhesive to speed healing and reduce complications and cost Read More » October 08, 2021 Still life in shades of gray How Toni Morrison helped an economics professor turn grief into art Read More » August 23, 2021 Fourteen UC Riverside professors receive NSF CAREER Awards The number shatters UCR’s record for CAREER Awards set only last year Read More » July 29, 2021 Giulia Palermo Wins the 2020 Corwin Hansch Award Giulia Palermo, an assistant professor of bioengineering at UC Riverside, has won the 2020 Corwin Hansch Award, given by the Hansch-Fujita Foundation each year to a scholar under the age of 40 for significant contributions to the field of computational drug design. Palermo, who leads a computational bioengineering group interested in biophysical studies of gene editing tools, will receive the award on September 22nd at the Virtual Award Session of the annual Gordon Research Conferences on Computer-Aided Drug Design. The award is named in honor of Corwin Hansch, a pioneer in computational drug Read More » July 16, 2021 Air-powered computer memory helps soft robot control movements “Airhead” robot uses pneumatic RAM to play piano Read More » July 03, 2021 Welcome Professor Iman Noshadi Dr. Noshadi’s research entails the development of biomaterials for biomedical device fabrication. His doctoral thesis focused on developing poly ionic liquid (PIL) porous materials for the catalytic transformation of biomass to biochemical molecules. During his postdoctoral research, he accumulated in-depth knowledge and experience in tissue engineering and biomaterials to develop vascularized tissue substitutes. He designed hydrogels with biomedical requisites for tissue regeneration that led to patented technologies. The BioGels platforms he built balance opposing properties, such as Read More » More News Upcoming and Recent Events Bioengineering 15th Anniversary Celebration: Friday, October 22, 2021 October 22, 2021 @ 8:00 am Alumni and Visitors Center Please join us as we celebrate our 15th anniversary on Friday, October 22, 2021 beginning at 8:00 AM. The program will be a hybrid platform with the in-person format housed in the Alumni and Visitors Center. The reception will begin at 6:00 PM. For registration and more imformation, please visit our website. View Event » Potential Graduate Students Virtual Visit Day 4-3-2020 April 03, 2020 @ 8:00 am Zoom Please click here to see the recording of the Potential Graduate Students Virtual Visit Day held on Friday April 3, 2020. View Event » Colloquium Speaker: Nathan Lewis, PhD, Dept. of Bioengineering and Pediatrics, UCSD February 26, 2020 @ 11:00 am 205/206 WCH Title: Coaxing better therapeutic production through mammalian systems and synthetic biology Abstract: Over the past years, there has surge in complex therapeutics, including recombinant protein, gene, and cell therapies. However, the manufacturing of these therapeutics necessitates the engineering of complex traits into… View Event » Distinguished Speaker: Michael Miller, PhD Johns Hopkins University February 12, 2020 @ 11:00 am 205/206 WCH Title: The Neuroimaging Face of Pre-Clinical Alzheimer’s Disease Abstract: I will discuss results from our study of pre-clinical Alzheimer’s disease as part of the BIOCARD project. We will examine the central technologies of Computational Anatomy based on diffeomorphometry for quantifying the anatomical structures of 3T clinical… View Event » All Events Did You Know? 3.8:1 GRADUATE STUDENT TO FACULTY RATIO 18 Core Faculty 50 BIG Faculty 11 FELLOWS OF PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS 10 Affiliated Centers 30% INCREASE IN RESEARCH EXPENDITURES FROM 15/16 TO 16/17 Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Department of Bioengineering 217 Materials Science and Engineering Building University of California, Riverside Riverside, CA 92521-0429 tel: (951) 827-4303 fax: (951) 827-6416 email: big@engr.ucr.edu Follow US: Visit BCOE's Facebook page (external site: Facebook) Follow BCOE on Twitter (external site: Twitter) Visit BCOE's YouTube channel (external site: YouTube) Follow UCR on Instagram (external site: Instagram) Join the LinkedIn alumni group (external site: LinkedIn) Visit BCOE's Flcikr gallery (external site: Flickr) Department of Bioengineering Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel