Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Home Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions How do I apply for Financial Aid? What is the school code for the University of Memphis? When do I apply? Why do I have to apply every year? Who may apply for aid? How long does it take to be notified if I am awarded? I'm a Freshman. Will my financial aid cover my tuition and dorm? When will I get my refund? Will I get all my monies in one semester? Can I get my aid early? What if I applied for aid but did not submit all my documents on time? What happens to my financial aid if I drop a class or withdraw completely? Can I transfer my aid to another school? Can I get financial aid during the summer? I don't live with my parents, nor do they claim me as a tax exemption. Why am I not considered independent? If my parents are divorced, whose income should be reported? What is the difference between subsidized and unsubsidized loans? Where do I get my loan deferment form filled out? When does interest on PLUS loans begin to accrue? When does a PLUS Loan go into repayment? Can I make payments, even if I'm in school, in a grace period, have a deferment or have a forbearance? Commercial Aviation - How can I pay for the increased costs of this program? Consortium Agreements My question wasn't answered - what next? How do I apply for financial aid? Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the Renewal Application electronically using FAFSA on the WEB. Submit all documents as requested by the Student Financial Aid Office (i.e. tax returns, verification forms, etc.). If you have already been admitted, you can use your University account access to check myMemphis for the most up-to-date information on your financial aid application. Other students should follow up with the Student Financial Aid Office periodically to make sure no additional information is needed. If you listed the University of Memphis on your FAFSA but have decided to attend another school, notify us in order to avoid delays in getting your aid processed elsewhere. What is the school code for the University of Memphis? 003509 is the school code for the University of Memphis. When do I apply for financial aid? YOU MUST APPLY EVERY YEAR (not every semester). The financial aid year begins in the fall and ends in the summer. Typically you would apply after October 1 for the following fall semester. For priority deadlines, review WHEN TO APPLY. Why do I have to apply every year? Financial aid is not automatically renewed. Federal requirements and/or your family's financial situation may change. You must reapply for aid each year. Back to Top Who may apply for financial aid? Any undergraduate, graduate or law student currently enrolled or who applies for admission to The University of Memphis may apply for financial aid. However, students must be accepted into a degree program with a declared major, be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen; be making satisfactory academic progress and be enrolled at least half-time (in most cases) to receive aid. The number of credit hours required for eligibility is as follows: *Graduate assistants are required to be enrolled in 9 graduate credit hours to be considered full-time. **For federal aid purposes, half-time is defined as a minimum of 6 law credit hours for the fall and spring semesters. For law students, half-time during the summer is defined as a minimum of 3 law credit hours. Half-Time 3/4 Time Full-Time Undergraduate 6 9 12 (undergraduate credit hours) Graduate* 5 -- 9 (graduate credit hours) Law** 6 -- 12 (law credit hours) How long does it take to be notified if I am awarded? (For New Students Only) It really depends on the time of year. If you are submitting documents for the next fall in October, November or December, award information is usually posted on myMemphis beginning in December once all the system upgrades have been put in place. If you are applying for aid when classes are already in session, the award information is usually posted within a week of submitting all your required documents. I'm a Freshman. Will my financial aid cover my tuition and dorm? Excluding scholarships, the maximum amount of Direct Stafford Loan funds that a Freshman (dependent student) can receive is $5,500 per year ($3,500 subsidized; $2,000 unsubsidized). That amount may be above any Federal Pell Grant, state grant or other assistance the student may have received. If that amount is not enough to cover expenses, the student and family are responsible for the difference. The dependent student's parent may apply for a Parent PLUS Loan to offset added expenses. If the parent is denied the PLUS Loan, the parent may request that the student borrow additional unsubsidized Stafford to offset costs (up to the amount the student is eligible for depending on grade level and other aid received). Back to Top When will I receive my financial aid refund? Will I get all my financial aid (monies) in one semester? Can I get my aid early? All financial aid refunds are disbursed through the University & Student Business Services Office. For a disbursement schedule of excess financial aid and other important dates, visit the University & Student Business Services' Fee Payment Deadlines & Important Dates page. Aid will not be released early. Most financial aid is processed based on an academic year (i.e. fall and spring). Aid awards are therefore usually disbursed evenly between the fall and spring semesters. If you plan to graduate in the fall or request that aid be processed for one semester only, then our office will process your award for half of an academic year's eligibility. Federal regulations dictate when your monies can be disbursed. You may check the University & Student Business Services' Fee Payment Deadlines & Important Dates page for more detailed information regarding the disbursement of financial aid refunds. What if I applied for financial aid but did not submit all my documents on time? If you do not have all your financial aid documents in before the fee payment deadline you may apply for the Installment Payment Plan through the University & Student Business Services Office or you can pay your balance up front and receive a refund once your financial aid processes. Please note that even if you applied for financial aid, there is no guarantee that you will be eligible to receive aid once all your documents are in. NOTE: The Installment Payment Plan is NOT available in the summer. AVOID LATE FEES! Students dependent on Financial Aid to pay their fees must adhere to the missing requirement submission deadlines: August 1st - Fall, December 1st - Spring, May 1st - Summer. What happens if I drop a class or withdraw completely? If you completely withdraw or drop below half-time prior to receiving your aid, or prior to the beginning of classes, you are not eligible for your scheduled aid for that semester. If you drop a class or completely withdraw after receiving your disbursement, any balance of aid for that semester will be canceled. If you have a student loan, any refund due to complete withdrawal or drop in hours will be returned to the appropriate account and credited to your student loan. NOTE: Totally withdrawing prior to attending 60% of the academic term results in a calculation of "unearned financial aid" that MUST be repaid. 100% of financial aid is not earned until the student has attended at least 60% of the academic term. Back to Top Can I transfer my financial aid to another school? If you transfer from one institution to another within an academic year, you should be able to receive aid at your new institution. Due to availability and other factors such as cost, you may not be able to receive the same amount(s) and type(s) of aid. Even though you do NOT need to fill out the FAFSA again, you do need to contact their Central Processing Center (i.e. 1-800-433-3243) to have the results sent to your new institution. You may need to supply other documents to the new institution, so be sure to contact their Financial Aid Office. Can I get financial aid during the Summer? It depends on what aid you already received during the academic year. If you transfer from another institution and received aid there during the academic year (i.e. fall and/or spring), we would need to consider what aid you already received there. Once you enroll for at least half-time status (6 credits undergraduate, 5 credits graduate) for the Summer, your aid eligibility will be reviewed within 15 business days. Check your account for grant/loan offers and information regarding financial aid requirements. I don't live with my parents, nor do they claim me as a tax exemption. Why am I not considered independent? The federal guidelines determine dependency status. When you complete the FAFSA, you will be asked specific questions which determine your dependency status. Back to Top If my parents are divorced, whose income should be reported? Household and income information of the parent (and stepparent if any) whom you resided with more than half of the time during the last 12 months should be reported on the FAFSA. What is the difference between Subsidized & Unsubsidized Loans? The federal government does not charge interest on a Subsidized Loan while the borrower is enrolled at least half-time, during a six-month grace period, or during authorized periods of deferment. However, interest is charged throughout the life of an Unsubsidized Loan, and it starts to accrue on the date of disbursement. Where do I get my loan deferment form filled out? All loan deferment forms should be taken directly to the Registrar's Office in 003 Wilder Tower. This office is responsible for enrollment certification. Back to Top When does interest on PLUS Loans begin to accrue? When does a PLUS Loan go into repayment? Because a PLUS Loan is a type of Unsubsidized Loan, interest on a PLUS Loan starts to accrue the day the loan is disbursed. Even though the account may not be in repayment, interest is still accruing. PLUS Loans enter repayment on the date of the last disbursement on the loan, and the first payment is due within the next 60 days. PLUS Loans do not have a grace period. Can I make payments, even if I’m in school, in grace, have a deferment or have a forbearance? Payments can be made at ANYTIME. If you are in school, or your loan is in a grace period, deferment, or forbearance, you will not receive monthly bills, but checks or money orders can be made payable to the U.S. Department of Education. Please include the borrower’s Social Security Number on the check or money order and mail it to: U.S. Department of Education Direct Loan Payment Center P.O. Box 746000 Atlanta, GA 30374-6000 Commercial Aviation - How can I pay for the increased costs of this program? Students admitted to the Bachelor of Science in Commercial Aviation program may be eligible for federal, state, and institutional financial aid. We recognize that this program and the associated costs are significantly more than most programs at the University of Memphis. Students have several options to help offset these higher costs. Every student should complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so that their eligibility for federal and state aid can be evaluated. At a minimum, students may be eligible for Federal Stafford Loans. Many students may also be eligible for Federal Grants and State Grants/Scholarships.* Dependent students (as determined by the FAFSA), can have a parent apply for a Federal Parent PLUS Loan. This program allows a parent without an adverse credit history to borrow up to the student’s estimated Cost of Attendance (COA) minus any other financial assistance that is expected or received. Parents can find out more information about the Parent PLUS Loan by clicking here. All students are able to apply for Alternative Loans which are loans through a private lender. Most alternative loans require a credit check and may require a co-signor. All eligible students should complete the FAFSA and utilize their Federal aid options before seeking an Alternative Loan as the federal rates and terms are generally more favorable. If approved, the student can borrow up to the estimated Cost of Attendance minus any other financial assistance that is expected or received. Students and parents can find out more information on Alternative Loans by clicking here. *Eligibility for federal, state, and institutional aid programs are evaluated on a case-by-case bases in compliance with applicable federal, state, and institutional regulations and policies. Please visit our Eligibility page for more information. Consortium Agreements If you are going to be taking classes at another domestic school while still enrolled as a student at the University of Memphis, you may be able to complete a consortium agreement to receive financial aid for credit hours at both the University of Memphis (the home school) and the other school (the host school). The purpose of a consortium agreement is to ensure disbursement of the proper amount of financial aid and the accurate estimation of the costs to attend both institutions. Consortium agreements are considered on a case-by-case basis and may only be processed if necessary for you to receive your federal financial aid. The requirements below must be met to qualify to be considered for a consortium agreement: Earned credit hours at the host school must transfer to the University of Memphis and apply toward your degree requirements. Undergraduate students and their academic advisor must complete the Transfer Credit Request (TCR) Form and submit to the Undergraduate Admissions Office. This ensures that the course(s) taken at the host institution has a direct equivalent with a required course for your program of study at the University of Memphis. Graduate students will need approval from the department head of your program. Law students must obtain approval from the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. You must be enrolled for less than 12 credit hours (undergraduate students) or 9 credit hours (graduate/law students) at the University of Memphis. Note that eligibility for some aid programs may require a minimum enrollment level. HOPE/Lottery Scholarship eligible students will need to complete a separate Consortium Agreement with our Scholarship Office. Additionally, students cannot generally receive federal financial aid (Pell Grants, Stafford Loans, etc.) at more than one institution for the same term. If you believe you qualify for a consortium agreement and meet the criteria above, you can contact DebraAnn Brown at dbrown@memphis.edu to request more information. My question wasn't answered - what next? If you still have questions, you can call our office at 901.678.4825 or submit a TigerHelp request. Remember, when emailing our office, always include your full name and UID. Back to Top Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/5/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.