Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Friend2Friend Friend2Friend Friend2Friend is one of Alice! Health Promotion’s skills-based training programs. This three-hour workshop is designed to help Columbia students recognize and respond to others exhibiting indicators of distress. Focused on understanding, reframing, referring, and self-care, students learn how to connect peers to resources on- and off-campus. At the end of this training, participants will be able to: Define their role as a friend Define well-being List at least three factors that can help someone maintain positive well-being List at least three reasons why students may choose not to get help List at least three possible signs of distress Describe how to refer a friend to a resource Identify ways to care for one's self after helping a friend Each training session is open to a minimum of six participants and a maximum of 25. Sessions are available to all currently enrolled Columbia students. Requests for workshops or trainings for groups with fewer than six participants will be considered on a case by case basis prior to confirming the requested session. Attend a Training Students interested in attending one of our open sessions should visit our Events page or email [email protected] for a list of sessions currently being offered. Students can request a Friend2Friend training for their group by completing and submitting an Alice! Health Promotion Workshop and Training Request. Questions? Email [email protected] or call 212-854-5453. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Alice! Health Promotion Clinical Specialty Prevention Initiatives Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close