Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Home Program Information Student Resources Contact Information Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Interdisciplinary Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Interdisciplinary Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences Program Information Program Information How to Apply Core Curriculum Areas of Research and Faculty Advisory Board Student Resources Contact Information Core Curriculum How to Apply The IGPBS provides the first-year core curriculum for Ph.D. graduate students interested in becoming biomedical researchers. The core curriculum consists of courses in Proteins and Metabolism, Molecular Genetics, Cell Structure, and Cell Communication and focuses heavily on critical evaluation of published literature. Two additional courses - Introduction to Research Ethics and Biographics - and basic science department interaction days, complete the fall semester. The students are introduced to potential mentors looking for students through the Faculty Research Series in the first quarter (August - October) after which they complete three, eight-week rotations. At the beginning of year two, students select a thesis and research adviser. Depending upon the faculty member chosen, a student will receive a PhD in one of eight doctoral degree-granting programs. Students admitted to the IGPBS program receive an annual stipend of at least $34,000, plus a tuition waiver, with similar financial support throughout their PhD program. Students may also apply for fellowships that in some cases provide a larger annual stipend (e.g. Madison and Lila Self Graduate Fellowship, Kansas University Training Program in Neurological and Rehabilitation Sciences). Students admitted to the IGPBS may choose among the following Ph.D. programs in which to receive their degrees. Department of Anatomy & Cell Biology Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Department of Cancer Biology Department of Microbiology, Molecular Genetics & Immunology Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine Department of Molecular & Integrative Physiology Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology & Therapeutics Neuroscience Graduate Program The Stowers Institute for Medical Research is a strong supporter of the IGPBS and many of the Stowers researchers also have appointments to the graduate faculty at KUMC. Important Links ASCEND Workshop Series Biostatistics & Data Science Student Tutoring Lab Madison and Lila Self Graduate Fellowships Writing Services School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center Interdisciplinary Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences Mailstop 3025 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 Office: (913) 588-2719 Toll-free: (800) 408-2039 Fax: (913) 588-5242 igpbs@kumc.edu Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.