Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 02, 2020 Texas Tech University Community, We continue to monitor the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. The symptoms are similar to the flu and include fever, cough, and shortness of breath. If you or someone you know with travel exposure develops symptoms, please seek urgent medical attention. At this time, there are no confirmed or suspected cases among the Texas Tech University community, including those who are currently studying and working outside the United States. Nevertheless, it is always important to wash your hands regularly and use the hand sanitizer stations located through the high-traffic areas of our campus. You should avoid contact with people who are sick, and stay home if you have respiratory illness or a fever. The health and safety of all students, faculty, and staff at Texas Tech University are our top priority, and we are taking a proactive approach to this situation. Sukant Misra, Vice Provost for International Affairs, is in regular contact with those who are currently abroad and will provide ongoing updates as the situation continues to develop. We will provide additional information on spring break and summer semester study abroad programs as we receive additional information. As you plan for personal or business travel, we urge you to follow the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to help prevent the spread of respiratory diseases . The CDC has issued travel guidance related to COVID-19, limiting all non-essential travel to China, Iran, Italy, and South Korea. They are also closely monitoring travel to Japan and Hong Kong. Up-to-the-minute travel notices from the CDC are available on their website . For faculty and staff matters related to COVID-19, please contact Rob Stewart (faculty) at (806) 742-2184 or Jodie Billingsley (staff) at (806) 742-3851. Students should direct health related questions and concerns to Student Health Services at (806) 743-2848. For those who are currently abroad, please contact Whitney Longnecker in the Office of International Affairs at (806) 834-0676. Additional information is available from the CDC Coronavirus Disease 2019 website . We will also begin sharing regular updates on the TTU Coronavirus Disease 2019 website . Sincerely, Lawrence Schovanec President Texas Tech University Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 11, 2020 2:54 PM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index