Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Centers & Institutes UofM Research Council Reports & Statistics Research & Innovation Staff Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Division of Research and Innovation About Division of Research & Innovation The Division of Research & Innovation supports world-class research and discovery by University faculty, staff, and students, who are asking bigger questions and generating better answers every day. As the Mid-South's premier research university, the University of Memphis is a nationally recognized research institution with top ranked programs in over 30 disciplines. While such rankings are important markers of our success, it is the impact of our research that matters most. Our research is creating the next generation of knowledge to, foster innovation, enhance economic development, and promote the dynamism that is part of this great city. Through research experiences in and out of the classroom with our award-winning faculty, students have unparalleled opportunities to learn about, and to prepare for the competitive global economy. The University of Memphis, as an engaged learning community, celebrates: The pursuit of excellence in teaching and research as the highest measures of successful achievement. Interdisciplinary collaboration, artistic expression, and research as vehicles for leveraging our resources, solving problems, and multiplying our accomplishments. The transfer and dissemination of knowledge with community stakeholders for the intellectual, economic, and social advancement of our community. Innovation and creativity in everything we do. Respect for diversity and individual worth. Integrity and transparency in all our actions. Responsible stewardship and conservation of resources. Stewardship of wisdom, knowledge, and information created by our predecessors. Leadership and involvement in the economic, social, and professional growth of the city of Memphis, the state of Tennessee, and the nation. Fundamentally, the Division of Research & Innovation is responsible for advancing transformative excellence in research across campus; and growing the cutting edge capacity of Memphis. We do so by enabling the research success of our faculty through supporting university research centers, institutes, museums and core facilities; providing research development, stewardship, compliance and safety services; and securing strategic external partnerships. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.