By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted Syracuse Pathway Program More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans HEOP & SSS Visit Opportunities FAQ Checklist Housing Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider Technology International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart Information for Admitted Syracuse Pathway Program Students Syracuse University and Wells College are pleased to offer this unique opportunity to help ensure student success at Syracuse University and beyond. This pathway program enables select students to pursue a Syracuse University degree after attending Wells College for one year. If you meet the below criteria after completing your first year at Wells College you will be guaranteed admission to Syracuse University’s College of Arts & Sciences. Other programs will be considered based upon strength of academic performance. To accept your offer to the pathway program, you should refer to the invitation email received in response to your application, or contact orange@syr.edu . For questions, please contact Scott Taylor (Syracuse) at transfertosu@syr.edu or 315.443.3611 or Melinda Slawson (Wells) at mslawson@wells.edu . Note: Only students who are invited to the Syracuse Pathway Program may participate. Program Details If you have been selected and choose to participate in the pathway program, you will: Attend nearby Wells College, in the town of Aurora, for your first year. After that, you can transfer credits to Syracuse University ( requirements apply ). Complete your bachelor’s degree at Syracuse University. If you are interested in eventually pursuing a transfer to Syracuse University, we advise you to follow a liberal arts curriculum. Please note that some of our talent-based programs and professional schools have limited space for transfer students. Benefits At Wells, you will participate in student orientation and have access to the same student services and support that all Wells students enjoy. Syracuse University and Wells College staff will be available to assist you with course registration. We recommend you consult with academic advisors from Syracuse and Wells to confirm that selected courses are transferable. Requirements Take a full course load (15 hours per semester, for a total of 30 hours) during the fall and spring semesters at Wells College. Achieve at least a 3.0 GPA at the conclusion of the fall and spring semesters. Students must submit their transcript to Syracuse University at the conclusion of the spring semester of their freshman year at Wells College. The official transcript deadline is July 1. Related Pages Syracuse University's College of Arts and Sciences The founding college of Syracuse University remains at the center of undergraduate learning. The City of Syracuse Syracuse University is located in the heart of New York State, and rests atop a hill overlooking the City of Syracuse. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy