Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Philosophy and Mission History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships Philosophy and Mission History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Home About U-SoA Give to U-SoA AAA Give to U-SoA Philosophy and Mission History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Donations to U-SoA come from a variety of sources; students and their families, staff, faculty, alumni, attendees to our lectures and events, and those that share an interest with the School or its programs. To donate online you may click here. To discuss a gift or a particular program need, you may contact the School’s Development Director, Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. Current School Needs In accordance with Dr. Frenk’s vision for the University as we move towards the 100-year anniversary of our founding in 2025 https://president.miami.edu/roadmap/about/index.html , the School of Architecture prioritizes the following needs: 100 Talents Endowments: President Frenk’s vision calls for endowing 100 Talents for the University’s 100th Anniversary. Adding or securing these new talents to the faculty will ensure that the School is able to build on the solid reputation that has been established while also expanding to prepare our students for the careers to come. The School of Architecture seeks to endow the following critical positions: Dean of the School of Architecture Classical and Traditional Architecture Chair Historic Preservation Endowed Chair Construction Management Endowed Chair Health Care Design Endowed Chair Master of Real Estate Development and Urbanism Chair Distinguished Presidential Scholar in Real Estate Distinguished Presidential Scholar in Architecture Access to Excellence In an effort to ensure that a degree from the University of Miami is within the financial means of every meritorious student, the School of Architecture seeks to grow endowed scholarships. Gifts of $100,000 or greater will be recognized as a named scholarship that will live in perpetuity and benefit a student according to the donor’s desired criteria. Problem Based Interdisciplinary Inquiry Real Estate Program The School’s Real Estate Development and Urbanism program is being developed to expand the School’s influence, enhance the quality of the built environment through education, and promote successful, professional practice in the real estate industry. This program provides students and mid-career professionals an opportunity to sharpen skills, learn new ones and gain the knowledge required to meet work challenges in the real estate industry. A gift to the program will help create new faculty positions. Center for Urban & Community Design The Center for Urban and Community Design coordinates the School’s outreach to the community. Established in 1992, the CUCD has a multiple project effort to guide rebuilding in South Miami Dade (following Hurricane Andrew). More recently, the Center implemented a design build program for affordable housing in Coconut Grove. Support for this program will enable expansion of the School’s outreach to the community, and ensure that a hands-on experience continues to be available for students. Visiting Critics, Lectures, Exhibitions, and studios With the completion of the new Jorge M. Perez Architecture Center, the School has experienced increased attendance at lectures and exhibition openings. Visiting speakers enhance the classroom encounter and offer opportunities for the greater community to hear from the world’s foremost experts in the field of architecture and community design. A gift to support the lecture and exhibition series will provide students, faculty and the local community with enhanced opportunities for learning and dialogue. Ways to Give Outright Gifts Outright gifts, including cash, securities and other property, provide the School of Architecture with the financial assistance to meet its most pressing needs. To make an outright gift, please contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. Remember, you can give securely online to the School of Architecture. Retained Interest Your gift to the School of Architecture can do double-duty by providing the School with much-needed funds while also allowing you to hold an interest in that gift. For example, you can set up a charitable trust that provides you with income from that trust for life, or for a specified number of years. For further information about setting up a charitable trust, please contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. Unrestricted Gifts Unrestricted gifts allow the School of Architecture to meet its most urgent needs, while also providing the flexibility necessary to support the School as its needs change. Your donation to the Annual Fund is an example of an unrestricted gift. To make an unrestricted gift, please contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu or give securely online to the School of Architecture. Endowed Gifts An endowment is a permanent legacy reflecting a donor’s generosity. It’s a gift that continues to give. For more information, please contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu or visit MyUm Endowments. The Irvin Korach Architecture Gallery Gifts of Security A gift of securities to the School of Architecture can take the form of shares of corporate stock or mutual funds, stock options, bonds, or other types of securities. With a gift of securities you may enjoy tax savings. For further information about making a gift of securities, contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. Matching Gifts Double or triple your investment in the School of Architecture by asking your company to participate in a matching program. Many corporations have already demonstrated their support for UM by matching, or multiplying, their employees’ gifts up to a set amount. Call your personnel office today to find out whether your company will match your gift. Gifts of In-Kind Do you have art, equipment, rare books, or other possessions that could be put to good use by the School of Architecture? To determine the School’s interest in the object you would like to give, please contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. Planned Gifts Planned gifts to the School of Architecture may provide lifetime income to the college while also affording specific tax advantages to the donor. For further information about making a planned gift or bequest to the School of Architecture, contact Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu or visit MyUM Gift Planning. Online Giving Form For additional information about gifts to the School of Architecture, contact: Karina Alvarez Director of Development University of Miami | School of Architecture 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 400, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Office: 305.284.5841 | Cell: 786.344.5978 Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices