Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Environmental Health & Safety Menu Search TTU Environmental Health & Safety Academic Safety Institutional Compliance Committees Institutional Biosafety Committee Charge The committee reports to the Vice President of Research and provides direction for the following: Responsible for policies and procedures relating to potentially pathogenic microorganisms and implementation of biological safety programs for Texas Tech University. Ensuring Texas Tech University's compliance with NIH guidelines and assess the safety of recombinant DNA research experiments and any potential risk to public health or the environment. To certify investigators, their laboratories and their programs for work with: Recombinant and/or synthetic nucleic acid activities; and/or Materials potentially infectious to humans, plants or other animals; and/or arthropods that serve as vectors of disease to human, plants, or other animals; and/or The use of potentially infectious human and/or non-human primate materials (e.g., unfixed tissues, cell lines, and body fluids/excretions/secretions); and/or The use of animal cell lines that pose a danger to humans and/or those immortalized by means that render them dangerous to humans; and/or Any Select Agent as listed in 7 CFR 331, 9 CFR 121, and 42 CFR 73. To produce and update the University Biological Safety Manual and oversee its implementation in the research laboratories and studios of Texas Tech University. To review and recommend to Environmental Health & Safety the need for general and specific training programs for research, studio and teaching activities dealing with potentially pathogenic microorganisms and recombinant DNA, and to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of such training programs. The Department of Environmental Health & Safety helps coordinate the committee and helps develop and implement the biological safety programs of the IBC. Committee Composition Chair Designated by the Vice President of Research on recommendation from the Assistant Vice President of Environmental Health & Safety. Membership As required by the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (Sec IV-B-2), the IBC shall be comprised of no fewer than 5 members so that they collectively have the experience and expertise in recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid molecule technology, the capability to assess the safety of this and other research per their charge, and to identify any potential risk to public health or the environment. At least 2 members must not be affiliated with the institution and who represent the interest of the surrounding community with respect to health and protection of the environment. Texas Tech University OP 74.05 further describes the content of the IBC to include the following: A member of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee; At least two citizens of the Lubbock community; At least three faculty members from TTU with expertise in biohazards; One member from laboratory technical staff; The Assistant Vice President for Research (Environmental Health and Safety) and/or a designated representative; and The University Biological Safety Officer. Ex Officio (without vote) members include the Assistant Vice President for Environmental Health & Safety and the Associate Vice President for Research for Responsible Research. The term of membership for full members are staggered three-year cycles. 2021-22 Membership Roster Chair Dr. Hong Zhang - Molecular Plant Biologist, Biology Associate Chair Dr. Cynthia Reinoso Webb M(ASCP) - Microbiologist, Immunologist & Biosafety Specialist, Environmental Toxicology Committee Members Dr. Corey Brelsfoard, Entomologist, Biology Dr. Jason Fritzler, Parasitology & Infectious Disease Specialist, School of Veterinary Medicine Mr. Gary Henniger - Community Member, BASF Ms. Andrea Krieg - Staff, Animal and Food Sciences Dr. Vinicius Machado - Veterinarian and Animal Specialist, Veterinary Sciences Dr. Kay Millerick - Environmental Microbiologist, Civil, Environmental & Construction Engineering Dr. Steve Presley - Medical Entomologist, Emerging Biological Threats, Environmental Toxicology Dr. Benildo de los Reyes - Plant Biologist, Plant & Soil Science Mr. Shane Scoggin – Staff, Nutritional Sciences Dr. Jyotsna Sharma - Plant Microbiologist, Plant and Soil Sciences Dr. Huazhong Shi - Plant Biologist, Chemistry and Biochemistry Mr. Neil Weems - Community Member, City of Lubbock Ex Officio Members Dr. Tiffanie Brooks - University Veterinarian, Animal Care Services Mrs. Rebecca Maloney, University Biological Safety Officer, Environmental Health & Safety Mr. Matt Roe, Administrative Representative, Assistant Vice President of Environmental Health & Safety - ARO Dr. Alice Young, Associate Vice President of Research, Office of the Vice President of Research - RO Meeting Frequency The IBC meets bimonthly or more frequently as needed. Our next meeting is: May 19th For the date and time of the next scheduled meeting, please contact the IBC. IBC Resources IBC Protocol Registration IBC Application IBC Protocol Annual Update IBC Request for Clarification or Deviation Biosafety Information Lab Tools, Templates & Posters University Laboratory Safety Manual Have a question or concern for the IBC? Email us! Environmental Health & Safety Like Environmental Health & Safety on FacebookLike Environmental Health & Safety on Facebook Follow Environmental Health & Safety on twitterFollow Environmental Health & Safety on twitter Subscribe to Environmental Health & Safety on YouTubeSubscribe to Environmental Health & Safety on YouTube Follow Environmental Health & Safety on InstagramFollow Environmental Health & Safety on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 407 Flint Ave, Lubbock, TX 79409 (Mail Stop 1090) Phone 806.742.3876 Email safety@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 21, 2022 10:19 AM Environmental Health & Safety About Environmental Health & Safety Back Mission & Vision Environmental Health & Safety Mission & Vision Back News & Events Our Staff Environmental Health & Safety Our Staff Back Meet Our Staff Who should I talk to? Resources Environmental Health & Safety Back Operating Policies Training Safety@TTU Lessons Learned Safety Stories Newsletters Safety Videos Annual Reports Forms Environmental Health & Safety Back Temporary Food Permit Materials Shipping Form SCAN Report Committee Protocol Review Forms Near-Miss Poll Services Environmental Health & Safety Back Training Waste Disposal Safety Management Program (RRAMP) On-Campus Lab Moves Lab Safety Services Community Outreach Recognition Environmental Health & Safety Recognition Back President's Departmental Safety Award Academic Safety Environmental Health & Safety Back Programs Environmental Health & Safety Programs Back Chemical Biological Shop & Studio Field Radiation Laser Magnetic Field Shipping Controlled Substances Resources Environmental Health & Safety Resources Back Training University Lab Safety Manual Lab Forms Lab Tools, Templates & Posters Lab Safety Services Safety Surveys On-Campus Lab Moves Safety Management Program (RRAMP) SOPs by EHS Safety Videos FAQ Useful Links Buying a Drone Safety Commitment by Designation Environmental Health & Safety Safety Commitment by Designation Back Department Safety Officer Principal Investigator Lab Safety Captain Lab Personnel Find Your DSO Learning Opportunities Environmental Health & Safety Back TA & Lab Leadership Workshop GLASS Ambassadors Safe-Science Series Safe-Science Sessions Safe-Science Office Hours Captain's Call Institutional Compliance Committees Environmental Health & Safety Institutional Compliance Committees Back Institutional Laboratory Safety Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee Institutional Radiation & Laser Safety Committee Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Review Board Committee Protocol Review Forms Environmental Protection Environmental Health & Safety Back Programs Environmental Health & Safety Programs Back Hazardous Waste Lab Clean Out Stormwater Air Quality Industrial Wastewater Guidance Environmental Health & Safety Back Chemical Waste Biological Waste EHS BioBarrels Glass Waste Sharps Waste Gas Cylinder Return Lab Clean Out Services Environmental Health & Safety Back Waste Disposal Lab Clean Out EHS BioBarrels Resources Environmental Health & Safety Back Training Waste Management Flyers Waste Management SOPs Waste Management Posters Public Health Environmental Health & Safety Back News Programs Environmental Health & Safety Programs Back Water Quality Food Establishment Pest Control Swimming Pools & Spas Forms Environmental Health & Safety Back Request a Food Permit Occupational Safety Environmental Health & Safety Back Programs Environmental Health & Safety Programs Back AED Confined Space Respiratory Protection Crane & Hoist Ergonomics Forklift Operation Hazard Communication Indoor Air Quality Lockout/Tagout Occupational Health Program Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Health Program Back OHP Risk Assessment OHP Enrollment Form *Download form and open in Adobe for full functionality. Resources Environmental Health & Safety Back Training Working from Home Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index