Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Philosophical Horizons Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Graduate Awards, Fellowships, Programs Awards, Fellowships and Programs Departmental Awards For further information regarding deadlines and application guidelines for these awards, please consult the Director of Graduate Studies, Dr. Timothy Roche. Seshat Prize The Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis is pleased to announce the inaugural Seshat Prize for Spring 2021, thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor. Seshat was the ancient Egyptian goddess of wisdom and writing, and the prize will recognize the convergence of wisdom and writing in an essay. A prize of $1,250 will be awarded to the best graduate student essay. Two prizes, one of $700 and one of $400, will be awarded to the first and second best undergraduate student essays. Click here for a PDF. Hillary Johnson Memorial Graduate Student Teacher Award This award is in memory of Hillary Johnson, a graduate student in philosophy whose life was tragically ended. The award is given each year to a student who has exhibited exceptional teaching skills. Award recipients receive $300. Graduate Student Departmental Service Award This award is given each year to a graduate student who has exceeded expectations regarding departmental service. Award recipients receive $100. Bornblum Graduate Student Travel Award This award was made possible by the generous donation of David Bornblum and was made in honor of his father Bert Bornblum, a long time friend of the philosophy department. It provides, on a competitive basis, funds to curb the expense of professional travel for graduate students. Further information is available here. Applications for the Bornblum Travel Award should be submitted to Dr. Kas Saghafi. For more information on how to apply, click here. Philosophy Study Abroad Program The Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis is pleased to make available to eligible PhD students the opportunity to study overseas. Given eligibility and approval, the student may study in an approved university or more generally in an approved city for one semester. The program is intended to allow our best students to further their study of Continental or Analytic philosophy by means of attending university philosophy seminars and by means of investigating archives such as those at the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. Further information is available here. Graduate School Awards For further information regarding deadlines and application guidelines for the following awards, please consult the Graduate School's website. Provost's Predoctoral Diversity Awards These awards are bestowed by at least two departments each year, based on how well various requirements have been met. The amount of the awards vary by discipline and will be renewable for up to five years. All include a tuition scholarship. Each year departments compete based on their record of recruiting and graduating minority students. Students must be nominated by the department in order to apply for these awards. The University of Memphis Society, Inc. Doctoral Fellowship Established by UMS, Inc., this fellowship is awarded annually to a full-time doctoral student based on exceptional academic achievement. The amount varies from year to year. Morton Thesis/Dissertation Awards The result of a generous donation by S. Morgan Morton ('63), these awards honor an outstanding master's and doctoral student whose thesis or dissertation prospectus has been approved by their committee. The thesis award is $500 and the dissertation award is $750. Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Awards These awards are given to two outstanding teaching assistants. Candidates are nominated by faculty, students, alumni, or their respective college dean. Each recipients is awarded $500. Part-Time Master's Fellowships Awarded to entering students, these $1500 awards ($750 per semester) do not include a tuition scholarship. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.