COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Military and Veterans Affairs COVID-19 Update Division staff are working remotely during this time period, due to health and safety concerns pertaining to COVID-19. If you have any questions, please contact Marché Fleming-Randle at marche.fleming-randle@wichita.edu or call 316-978-5932. Military and Veterans Affairs Section Menu Military and Veterans Affairs About Our Division Contact Us Departments Military and Veterans Affairs Council Meet the Vice President About the Chief Diversity Officer Student Ambassadors Wichita State's Division of Military and Veterans Affairs is dedicated to serving those who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces and front line to ensure that first responders, service members, veterans and military dependents are given the most accurate and up-to-date information. Whether you're a first-time Shocker, or a seasoned veteran already taking courses, our homepage has information for everyone. Meet Our Leaders Follow Us on Facebook Our Story What is a chief diversity officer? At Wichita State, the chief diversity officer (CDO) provides leadership and vision for initiatives that align with the principles and goals fo inclusive excellence at Wichita State. Dr. Marché Fleming-Randle serves as Wichita State's chief diversity officer. Learn more McConnell Air Force Base A new partnership between Wichita State University and McConnell Air Force Base will provide military personnel the opportunity to work toward their bachelor's degree while on base. Programs will be offered in concentrated 8-week courses and traditional length courses. The partnership will create a pathway that brings continuous education options right to the students, removing the boundaries of what a traditional university education looks like. More Information Support for military, veterans and first responders students About Us Students, faculty and staff Military and Veterans Affairs supports students, faculty and staff on campus through the efforts of the following programs and initiatives: Army ROTC, Wichita State at McConnell Air Force Base, and Military and Veteran Services. Partnering with industry We seek to engage with local businesses and industry through applied learning, training, professional development and research initiatives that create successful students and productive members of the workforce. Building community ties Through its departments, Military and Veterans Affairs is vital to ensuring Wichita State University is reflective of the community it serves and strives to promote equity and opportunity for all. Our staff, faculty and students maintain an unrelenting focus on excellence in the pursuit of public service. Student Ambassadors The Military and Veterans Affairs Ambassadors are a dedicated group of students who represent our division. Meet the Ambassadors Departments Army ROTC WSU at McConnell Military and Veteran Services Community Engagement President's Diversity Council 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©