Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Computer Science (BS) – Accelerated BS to MS Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Computer Science In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements See Common Program Prerequisites . Qualified students may apply after completion of a minimum of 60 credit hours and successful completion of the Foundation Exam. Completion of no more than 90 credit hours. Completion of the GRE with a highly competitive score by the end of first semester of the senior year for continuation in the program. Admission is not automatic. Interested students may need to be interviewed. Admission to the Accelerated Program does not guarantee formal admission to the MS program. Degree Requirements None View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Application Development Director C++ Professor Chief Technology Officer Computer Information Systems Professor Computer Operations Manager Computer Programming Professor Computer Security Manager Data Operations Director Data Processing Manager IT Professor Information Systems Director Information Systems Manager Information Systems Professor Information Technology Director Information Technology Professor Information Technology Systems Director Internet Technology Manager Java Programming Professor MIS Director Management Information Systems Director Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Computer Science (BS) - Accelerated BS to MS University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements See Common Program Prerequisites . Qualified students may apply after completion of a minimum of 60 credit hours and successful completion of the Foundation Exam. Completion of no more than 90 credit hours. Completion of the GRE with a highly competitive score by the end of first semester of the senior year for continuation in the program. Admission is not automatic. Interested students may need to be interviewed. Admission to the Accelerated Program does not guarantee formal admission to the MS program. Degree Requirements None Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 30 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 27 credits from the following: STA2023 - Statistical Methods I (3) COP3330 - Object Oriented Programming (3) COP3502C - Computer Science I (3) COP3503C - Computer Science II (3) CDA3103C - Computer Logic and Organization (3) COT3100C - Introduction to Discrete Structures (3) CIS3360 - Security in Computing (3) COP3402 - Systems Software (3) COT4210 - Discrete Structures II (3) COP4331C - Processes for Object-Oriented Software Development (3) COT3960 - Foundation Exam Complete at least 1 of the following: ENC3241 - Writing for the Technical Professional (3) ENC3250 - Professional Writing (3) Grand Total Credits: 30 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida