Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Business & Environment Blog For Organizations ExEd Videos Other Initiatives Other Initiatives Business History Digital Entrepreneurship Gender Health Care Leadership Social Enterprise About Faculty & Research MBA Experience Alumni Climate Change Podcast Events …→ Harvard Business School→ Business & Environment→ What is the Business & Environment Initiative?What is the Business & Environment Initiative?    Inspiring innovation and action at the intersection of business and environment Impact Stories Addressing Climate Change through Agriculture Charley Cummings, MBA 2011 Sustainable Operations Michael Toffel, Faculty Chair; Senator John Heinz Professor of Environmental Management Wal-Mart: For Better or Worse Rebecca Henderson, MBA 1985 Professor, Harvard Business School Opportunities in Resource Industries Vikas Mouli, MBA 2016 Climate Rising Podcast How New Belgium is Fighting Climate Change One Pint at a Time 18 MAY 2022 | Climate Rising Katie Wallace, Chief ESG Officer of New Belgium Brewing Company, and Adam Fetcher, Senior Director of Communications and Public Engagement, discuss how climate change’s impacts on their operations and ingredients led them to engage with policymakers and take their climate message to their beer customers. They share how the company has integrated climate action into its operations and supply chain, how they encourage customers to hold companies accountable for the climate plans, and offer advice for those interested in pursuing a career in climate and business. For transcripts and other resources, visit climaterising.org. Guests: Katie Wallace, Chief ESG Officer, New Belgium Brewing Company & Adam Fetcher, Senior Director of Communications and Public Engagement, New Belgium Brewing Company Katie Wallace, Chief ESG Officer of New Belgium Brewing Company, and Adam Fetcher, Senior Director of Communications and Public Engagement, discuss how climate change’s impacts on their operations and ingredients led them to engage with policymakers and take their climate message to their beer customers. They share how the company has integrated climate action into its operations and supply chain, how they encourage customers to hold companies accountable for the climate plans, and offer advice for those interested in pursuing a career in climate and business. For transcripts and other resources, visit climaterising.org. Guests: Katie Wallace, Chief ESG Officer, New Belgium Brewing Company & Adam Fetcher, Senior Director of Communications and Public Engagement, New Belgium Brewing Company News 10 Teams Tackle Climate Change Re: Tarun Khanna 18 May 2022 | Harvard Gazette Capping a Two-Year First at HBS: Inaugural Cohort of MS/MBA Biotechnology: Life Sciences Program Showcase Their Work Re: Amitabh Chandra 18 May 2022 | Harvard Business School We Need Better Carbon Accounting. Here’s How to Get There. By: Robert Kaplan 12 Apr 2022 | Harvard Business Review Faculty & Research Cultivo: Investing in Natural Capital By: Gunnar Trumbull MAY 2022 | Case NIO: A Chinese EV Company's Global Strategy By: William C. Kirby, Shu Lin and Noah B. Truwit APRIL 2022 | Case Founded in November 2014 and based in Shanghai, NIO designed, jointly manufactured, and sold premium “smart” EVs. Its mission was to “shape a joyful lifestyle by offering high-performance smart electric vehicles and being the best user enterprise. At NIO Day 2021, Founder William Li shared plans for the company to expand to 25 different countries and regions by 2025, including the automobile juggernaut nation of Germany. Would users in other markets and cultures embrace his user enterprise and high-touch model? NIO faced tough competition ahead in the race for EV supremacy. Indigenous Wisdom and the Climate Crisis By: Reshmaan Hussam APRIL 2022 | Teaching Material Metric By: Christina Wallace APRIL 2022 | Teaching Material Supporting a Community of Learners MBA Experience As an MBA student at HBS, you will prepare yourself for leadership in a rapidly changing world in which natural resources are increasingly scarce and the threat of climate change ever more urgent. →How organizations can connect with students Alumni The Business & Environment Initiative connects alumni with students, faculty, and each other for learning, careers, and impact. Executive Education An advanced curriculum for corporate and nonprofit executives from all over the world to prepare them for new levels of leadership. →Agribusiness Seminar →Purpose and Profit: Creating Shared Value Social Media Feeds Have you caught up on the latest from Climate Rising? It features @newbelgium brewing and how climate change’s impa… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… May 31 2022, 05:40 PM HBS Environment @HBSBEI Follow Follow Us @HBSBEI Looking for something to listen to this weekend? Season 4 of Climate Rising focuses on the intersection of business… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… May 29 2022, 08:28 PM HBS Environment @HBSBEI Follow Have you caught up on the latest from Climate Rising? It features @newbelgium brewing and how climate change’s impa… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… May 31 2022, 05:40 PM HBS Environment @HBSBEI Follow Follow Us @HBSBEI Have you caught up on the latest from Climate Rising? It features @newbelgium brewing and how climate change’s impa… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… May 31 2022, 05:40 PM HBS Environment @HBSBEI Follow Follow Us @HBSBEI Looking for something to listen to this weekend? Season 4 of Climate Rising focuses on the intersection of business… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… May 29 2022, 08:28 PM HBS Environment @HBSBEI Follow Videos 12 Sep 2019 Tackling Climate Change in the MBA Classroom Tackling Climate Change in the MBA Classroom 12 Sep 2019 12 Sep 2019 Tackling Climate Change in the MBA Classroom Tackling Climate Change in the MBA Classroom 12 Sep 2019 21 Oct 2020 Prof. Rebecca Henderson’s call to action on climate change Prof. Rebecca Henderson’s call to action on climate change 21 Oct 2020 21 Oct 2020 Prof. Rebecca Henderson’s call to action on climate change Prof. Rebecca Henderson’s call to action on climate change 21 Oct 2020 From Business as Usual to Business as Vital As we increasingly experience the effects of climate change – predicted by scientists over 50 years ago – business is vital. Campus Sustainability Learn about our environmental stewardship, greenhouse gas reduction, and broad efforts to realize cost savings through efficiency and waste reduction. Initiatives focus on societal challenges that are too complex for any one discipline or industry to solve alone. ǁ Business & Environment Harvard Business School Cotting House 211 Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6886 Fax: 1.617.495.6791 Email: bei@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College