COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy photo Rija Khan served as Student Body President at Wichita State University. May 01, 2022studentsGraduate ProfilesFairmount College of Liberal Arts and SciencesTalent PipelineGraduatesSchool of Criminal Justice Meet a Shocker: Rija Khan By WSU Strategic Communications Rija Khan served as Student Body President at Wichita State University and learned leadership skills. She plans on attending law school. Rija is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Karachi, Pakistan Degree I am receiving a Bachelor of Science in criminal justice. What made you want to attend Wichita State? It has always felt like home. I had always considered attending Wichita State since my family members before me attended this institution. However, I choose to stay because of the sense of community and care everyone has for each other. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am excited to move on to the next chapter in life and sad to leave the friendships behind. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? My biggest challenge has been not feeling like a student due to my leadership roles on campus. Instead of overcoming the issue, I embraced the identity and worked with people. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? It was becoming the Student Body President as I got to be in spaces that expedited my experience and growth. What are your plans after graduation? I want to attend law school and work for a Muslim woman politician. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? It gave me the space to leave a lasting impact on campus as I participated in university decision-making. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Do not be afraid to ask questions. The more you ask, the more ways to solve a problem you will find. School of Criminal Justice Founded in 1934, the criminal justice program at Wichita State University is the second-oldest program of its type in the United States. The program works in cooperation with other disciplines in the School of Criminal Justice to teach students to assimilate knowledge, acquire skills and develop professional judgment and behaviors appropriate for wise and ethical practice. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©