Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Events BusinessFeed PR & Media Relations Programs Full-Time MBA Executive MBA PhD in Management Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Centers & Institutes Administrative Science Quarterly Careers For Recruiters Career Management Employment Reports Alumni Alumni Stay In Touch Leadership & Recognition Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise Home Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise Businesses have a vital role to play in solving social and environmental issues through innovation, market development, and entrepreneurship. Faculty who work with the Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise are at the forefront of research, teaching, and engagement related to helping businesses address these problems. We provide students distinctive experiential learning opportunities and collaborate with organizations to help to tackle the grand challenges of our time, such as climate change, ecosystem degradation, and poverty. Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise BusinessFeed April 20, 2022 Sustainability in Management Consulting Internship with EY-Parthenon Benjamin Goulet, MBA ’22, describes his experience as a consulting intern for EY-Parthenon, including access to leaders of sustainability initiatives. April 14, 2022 Business Impact Symposium Explores the Need for Climate Finance Investments need to focus not only on climate change mitigation measures but also on adaptation issues communities worldwide are facing. March 17, 2022 Preparing for the Greener Future of Electric Garbage Trucks Yimi Zhao, MBA ’22, made the business case for electric garbage trucks in an internship enabled by Johnson’s Social Impact Internship Fund. More From the Sustainable Global Enterprise BusinessFeed Research With Impact C.-Y. Cynthia Lin Lawell, Associate Professor, Robert Dyson Sesquicentennial Chair in Environmental, Energy, and Resource Economics, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Wind Turbine Shutdowns and Upgrades in Denmark: Timing Decision and the Impact of Government Policy, The Energy Journal, Volume 41, July 2020 Summary For policymakers, an important long-run question related to the development of renewable industries is how government policies affect decisions regarding the scrapping or upgrading of existing assets. This paper develops a dynamic structural econometric model of wind turbine owners’ decisions about whether and when to add new turbines to a pre-existing stock, scrap an existing turbine, or replace old turbines with newer versions (i.e., upgrade). Lawell et al apply their model to owner-level panel data for Denmark between 1980-2011 to estimate the underlying profit structure for small wind producers (the vast majority of turbine owners in the Danish wind industry during this time period), and evaluate the impact of technology and government policy on wind industry development. Explicitly taking into account the dynamics and interdependence of shutdown and upgrade decisions, and generating parameter estimates with direct economic interpretations, results from the model indicate that the growth and development of the Danish wind industry were driven primarily by government policies as opposed to technological improvements. MORE FROM RESEARCH WITH IMPACT Events 7/20/2022 7:00 am 2022 Cornell University ESG Investing Research Conference View All Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise Events Center Projects Spanning the Globe The Center provides hands-on learning opportunities for graduate students interested in learning how businesses address environmental and social problems through innovation and enterprise. Click on the map to learn more about the diversity of companies and types of challenges we work on. View CSGE Map in a larger map My best decision at Johnson was joining SGE. Hands down! Mikey Arsnow, MBA '19 The SGE program is more than a class, it is a community building exercise. We worked hard but also played hard while learning about win-win solutions for business and the world. Mercedes Moran Enriquez, MBA ‘20 Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ Land Acknowledgment for the Ithaca Campus Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ people, past and present, to these lands and waters. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise About Advisory Board Faculty & Staff History Applied Research Publications Funded Research Research With Impact Sponsored Projects Programs Sustainable Tourism Asset Management Program (STAMP) Japan Students Curriculum Employment Career Outcomes Summer Internships BR Microenterprise Internship Funding Immersion Students 2021 Cohort 2020 Cohort 2019 Cohort 2018 Cohort 2017 Cohort 2016 Cohort 2015 Cohort EFII Fellows Program Class of 2020 Class of 2018 Class of 2017 Class of 2016 Student Organizations Sustainable Global Enterprise Club Energy Club Events Contact Us Quick Links Directory Visit Library News Articles & Features Information For Corporations Recruiters PR & Media Relations Cornell Community Site Info sitefeedback@johnson.cornell.edu Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Sage Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 800-847-2082 (US and Canada) 607-255-4526 mba@johnson.cornell.edu emba@cornell.edu gradadmissions@business.cornell.edu Faculty, Staff & Students LaunchPad JConnect – Students Campus Groups Faculty & Staff Intranet Webmail Publications Cornell Enterprise Magazine Administrative Science Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts Make a Gift © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Johnson Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.