Student Centers - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Student Centers Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Student Centers Home About Us Mission, Vision, and Core Values Directions Hours of Operation Directory Departmental Reports Student Centers Staff Student Centers Student Employment Transformation Project History Student Center Policy Board News News Archive Conference & Reservations Registered Student Organizations Submit a Request Campus Departments Submit a Request Off Campus Groups Submit a Request Event Room Photos Policies and Procedures Event Schedule Forms COVID-19 Event Approval Process Dine & Shop Facility Info Tour Information Emergency Planning and Response Information Forms/Resources Temporary Study Room Policies Sustainability Special Programs Art Display Film Series COOG$ave Because I Said I Would. The Race Card Project Giving Student Center North Student Center South The Latest Updates on COVID-19 IMPORTANT NOTE: Please take a few moments to review a video showcasing the past 5 years of our new and renovated space. COVID-19 Response We are doing all that we can to ensure the safety of our UH students, faculty and staff, alumni, and surrounding community. View a comprehensive list of our COVID-19 response. Stay Connected: Please be sure to follow us on social media @uhstudentcenter as we will be sharing important information as it becomes available. Facebook Instagram Twitter We understand the stress, confusion, and uncertainty surrounding COVID-19. We are here to help however we can! DINING OPTIONS Looking for coffee, dinner, or a quick snack? Check out all the dining options the Student Center has to offer! CONFERENCE & RESERVATIONS Looking for a place to host your event? The student centers has a variety of options for student organizations, individuals, and more. GAMES ROOM Table tennis, bowling, billiards, amusement games. Upcoming Events Take a Virtual Tour Make a virtual stop at the Student Centers with a narrated campus tour where you will hear about resources and program highlights. Continue on to other campus stops to round out your UH Virtual Tour experience, a university-wide project by YouVisit. Launch Experience Contact Us Student Centers Office 4455 University Drive Rm. 271 Houston, TX 77204-3049 Phone (832) 842-6260 Fax (713) 743-5282 Conference & Reservations cars@uh.edu 832.842.6167 General Information scinfo@central.uh.edu 832.842.6256 Student Life Diversity Statement The Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Student Life Team honors the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals by creating and maintaining an environment that respects diverse traditions, heritages and experiences. Through education, reflection and accountability, we cultivate leaders who champion inclusion and diversity. Customer Service Standard The Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services staff engage customers with an ethic of care in a manner that demonstrates courtesy, attentiveness, active listening, proactive problem-solving, and patience while executing the functions of their job. It is expected that staff across the division possess cultural sensitivity and awareness of our diverse customers. Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies