Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Harvard T.H. Chan Naming Gift This video celebrates the extraordinary $350 million gift from The Morningside Foundation, established by the family of the late Mr. T.H. Chan. Press release: Harvard University Receives Transformational Gift for the School of Public Health The Boston Globe: Gift to Harvard Public Health school boosts all of Mass. The New York Times: Hong Kong Group to Give Harvard’s School of Public Health $350 Million Time: Donor Behind Largest Gift in Harvard’s History Explains Inspiration The Wall Street Journal: Hong Kong Family Stumps Up With Harvard’s Largest-Ever Donation Harvard Magazine: Harvard Public Health’s $350-Million Infusion The Harvard Crimson: School of Public Health Renamed with $350 Million Gift, Largest in Harvard History The Boston Globe: Harvard School of Public Health gets $350m donation Bloomberg: Kitchen Vaccinations Spurred Harvard Alumnus to Make Record Gift A Transformational Gift to the Harvard School of Public Health Harvard University Announces Gift to Harvard School of Public Health Harvard School of Public Health Launches New Century with Transformational Gift & New Name As of January 16, 2015 the School is now officially the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. To view the new logo, please go to this link, which shows some of the ways in which the new name can be used visually. Gerald Chan's 2012 Commencement address Campaign Facts News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College