Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Support the iSchool Support the iSchool Support the iSchool Your gift to the School of Information is a direct investment in the education of the next generation of leaders in the library and information professions. Give Online An Investment in the Future of Library & Information Education Your gift to the School of Information is a direct investment in the education of the next generation of leaders in the library and information professions. Private philanthropy helps our students in many ways that would not be possible within the iSchool's normal operating budget. It also provides funds that are vital to the iSchool's ability to attract and retain the most talented students and faculty members. Giving Make Your Gift Create an Endowment Other Ways of Giving Changing the future, by engaging the present, and preserving the past Video of Changing the future, by engaging the present, and preserving the past Why Give to the iSchool? We are currently ranked #5 in the top schools of library and information science by U.S. News & World Report and this competitive ranking is due in part to individuals and organizations that support our mission of teaching, research, and service. And our alumni— current and future— are key stakeholders in the iSchool's reputation of leadership and excellence. The Impact of your Gift Each year, the iSchool receives various financial gifts of all types and all sizes. Our students and faculty all benefit from the generosity and consistent support of our donors. From adding the latest technology in our labs, to providing scholarships, professional development, and networking opportunities, your ongoing support is critical to our mission of educating leaders in the information profession. Among the items funded by donor gifts to the iSchool are: Research Colloquia, Workshops, and Conferences Open House in Fall and Spring Semesters Commencement and iSchool Convocation New Student Orientation and Career Services Bootcamp Back-to-School Mixer for New and Returning Students Alumni Events, including TLA, ALA, SLA, SAA and Regional gatherings Career Workshops, including Speed Interviewing, Networking, Alumni Panels, and Speakers Unique internship opportunities, such as spring break in the Library of Congress Professional photographs for our students How to Support Us Support the iSchool Online Each year, the iSchool receives various financial gifts of all types and all sizes. Our students and faculty all benefit from the generosity and consistent support of our donors. From adding the latest technology in our labs, to providing scholarships, professional development, and networking opportunities, your ongoing support is critical to our mission of educating leaders in the information profession. Make a Gift Endowments Endowments provide an important part of the iSchool’s budget as they are reliable sources of income that can be forecast from year to year. Learn more about Endowments Advisory Council The School of Information Advisory Council is a board of appointed volunteers who actively assist the dean in the school's advancement efforts. Council members contribute to the school's advancement in a number of ways. Contact Us Other Ways to support the iSchool There are many ways to support the School of Information. You may specify that your gift is designated for a particular program or purpose, make an unrestricted gift, or specify that the gift is placed in an endowment. Learn more about other ways to support the iSchool Support and Development News Sept. 15, 2021 Martha Pattillo Siv and Ambassador Sichan Siv Endowed Scholarship June 12, 2020 Endowed Professorship in Librarianship at the iSchool established by Virginia & Charles Bowden Jan. 9, 2018 Student Lounge Dedicated To Martha Pattillo Siv Oct. 29, 2016 School renames conservation lab to honor donor Feb. 28, 2014 David Arctur Makes Major Gift to the iSchool More News See all news Our Development Team Shannon Hickson Director of Development and Alumni Relations (512) 232-0738 Send an Email Jessica Isaacs Development Associate Send an Email UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022