Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Turfgrass (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Clemson's turfgrass graduates are more than par for the course; they live their lives on the green. Graduates don't have a problem finding happiness when they surround themselves with a viable career they are passionate about. As you move through your classes, you'll learn the science, technology, management and business beyond the grass. Growing grass may seem like a simple concept, but there's more to it than just sowing a seed. Graduates who take on positions as superintendents or athletic grounds managers have high expectations from spectators and athletes for pristine playing surfaces. This requires managing a budget, employees, equipment, chemicals, environmental factors, soil and technology to produce a product that takes quite a consistent beating. We'll teach you how to manage these factors, plus you'll learn the technology and science behind the grass and which turf varieties are bred specifically for their respective region, soil and purpose. FAST FACTS During the Masters, you can typically find a Clemson student interning for the Augusta National Golf Club. Clemson's 18-hole Walker Course has updated all of their greens to Diamond Zoysiagrass, a specialty turf perfect for the transition climate in Clemson. The Clemson Turf Club has won several Carolinas Turf Bowl Competitions and arranged for turf majors to attend local and national turf conferences. The Turf Club recently placed fourth overall at the national turf bowl competition with 73 competing teams. Many students are employed with Clemson's amazing turfgrass facilities at either the Walker Golf Course, athletic facilities such as Doug Kingsmore Stadium, or with the research fields for the department. South Carolina is home to more than 450 golf courses. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY As a turfgrass student, you'll find that this major takes the understanding of biology, chemistry, soils, communication and management and applies it to the real world. You'll take on course work in science, math and business in order to prepare for a career that is truly greener on the other side. Becoming a professional in this industry requires a strong knowledge as well as solid experience; therefore, each student is required to complete an internship. Depending on your career goals, you'll have the opportunity to select from an approved list of courses to tailor your studies to your particular objective or interest area. Approved course work includes options such as plant pathology, landscape plants, environmental sciences, soil and water conservation, drainage and irrigation, microbiology and plant breeding. Curriculum Turfgrass, B.S. Popular Minors Agricultural Business Management Agricultural Mechanization and Business Business Administration Entomology Environmental Science and Policy Plant and Environmental Sciences Similar Majors Economics (B.S./B.A.) Horticulture (B.S.) Plant and Environmental Sciences (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Turfgrass students have various opportunities to get in the field. Through classroom instruction, laboratories and research, you'll see firsthand how to take classroom learning into the workforce. Athletics On the sidelines of Clemson football, baseball and soccer you'll find turfgrass students working and mastering important skills. GOLF Campus is home to a prominent 18-hole championship course that employs a number of students learning the technical knowledge of these playing surfaces.Learn More » Research Turf research plots serve our turfgrass students and faculty with a facility where they are able to conduct research. Projects may look at different types of turfgrass management and evaluations, disease, pest, irrigation and drainage concerns. Greenhouse Within Clemson's elaborate greenhouses, space is dedicated to turfgrass research and teaching. You'll be able to get in on the action and perform research in root physiology, pest management and developing sustainable turf varieties. INTERNSHIPS Students are required to complete an internship. Through this program you'll be able to make a name for yourself at many local and national golf courses and sports fields as well as within supporting industries. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Clemson's Walker Golf Course Horticulture Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Assistant Golf Course Superintendent Woodmont Country Club Farm Manager Inman Sod Green and Grounds Staff Quail Hollow Club Turf Grounds Assistant The Denver Broncos Assistant Field Manager The Washington Nationals RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Plant and Environmental Sciences Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Turfgrass Management Golf Courses Sports Fields Lawn Care Businesses Sod Productions Turfgrass Industry-Related Business Farm Management Research and Development Chemicals, Equipment and Support Ag Chemicals Turf Irrigation Turf Equipment (Mowers, Cutters, etc.) Turf Support Product and Sales Research and Development Turfgrass Specialist Turf Weed Specialist Turf Pathologist Turf Entomologist Landscape and Environmental Specialist Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Turfgrass (B.S.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Horticulture (B.S.) Plant and Environmental Sciences (B.S.)