Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Summer quarter Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Applying for aid Summer quarter Applying for aid Home Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Summer Quarter is the first quarter of the 2022-2023 academic year. The types and amounts of aid available are limited. A 2022-2023 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or a 2022-2023 Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) must be completed listing the University of Washington (Title IV school code 003798) before we can determine your eligibility for Summer Quarter aid. We recommend filing your FAFSA or WASFA at least 12 weeks before the beginning of Summer Quarter. We recommend you file the summer aid application by May 15 for priority processing. Normal processing time for Summer Quarter aid can take up to eight weeks depending upon when you submitted your FAFSA or WASFA and if additional information is needed to evaluate your eligibility. Pay your own tuition by the due date if your financial aid will not be ready in time. Tuition for Summer Quarter is due on Friday of the third week of the quarter. Applying for summer aid If you have submitted your FAFSA or WASFA as indicated above, you may submit (and make updates as long as our office has not already processed your application) a Summer Aid Application. Please be prepared to supply your UW NetID and password. Applications for Summer 2022 will be available beginning April 1, 2022. If you plan on taking part in the Full Time Summer Work Study Program, you do NOT need to complete this Summer Aid Application. Rather, contact the Work Study Office at workstdy@uw.edu. Minimum enrollment requirement The full-time and part-time enrollment requirements for Summer Quarter are the same as for any quarter for the academic year. To review enrollment requirements, please refer to Disbursement. Correspondence courses and Continuing Education credits do not count toward the minimum enrollment requirement. UW PCE credits count only if you are a UW degree student, the class is a regular credit class and the class appears on your regular university class schedule; check with our office before you register. Visiting Students (summer only attendees) and other Non-Matriculated students are not eligible for aid during Summer Quarter. Summer quarter aid programs Most, but not all aid programs are available in summer quarter too. Our office will determine if you are eligible to receive additional funds for each type of aid you are eligible to receive, or if we need to spread your ability for aid over four quarters instead of the regular three quarters of attendance. The aid programs are described in more detail in Types of Aid. Summer satisfactory academic progress requirement If you are a continuing student, you must meet satisfactory academic progress requirements for the prior year to receive aid. If you do not complete the required number of credits for the 2021-2022 year by the end of Spring Quarter 2022, your eligibility for aid will be suspended, we will stop processing your aid and Summer Quarter 2022 aid will not be disbursed to you. See the Satisfactory Academic Progress policy for more information. Summer refund and repayment policy Financial aid will be refunded to the aid programs if you withdraw from all of your classes during the university or federal refund period. In addition, if you withdraw Summer Quarter, you may owe immediate repayment of aid you received (except direct loans that are payable according to the terms of the promissory note). If you withdraw during the federal refund period, (i.e., the first 60% of your enrollment period, the amount of aid that must be returned to the aid programs is based on the proportion of the quarter remaining (that was not completed). For example, if you withdraw with 80% of the quarter remaining, 80% of your aid funds must be returned to the aid programs. The amount that you must repay immediately depends on the amount of university fees and the type and amount of aid for summer. Please see Withdrawal and Refund. Additional information Additional information may be found in the FAQs regarding summer quarter. Home Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA