Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Alcohol Sex and Alcohol Does drinking alcohol block your ability to have an orgasm? People often say that a cocktail or a glass of wine helps them to relax or even feel a little sexier. But does it actually result in better sex? Probably not. Is alcohol an aphrodisiac? Alcohol has the reputation of being an aphrodisiac. One or two drinks (depending on your weight, gender and other factors) can act as a social lubricant. Studies have shown that alcohol can enable some people to overcome sexual inhibitions or anxieties. It's important to understand what constitutes one drink and how other factors such as weight and gender affect each individual. This page explains those factors and can help you understand a safe level of alcohol use for you. What is the impact of alcohol on physical arousal? Let's take a look at what happens to our bodies when we drink alcohol. Alcohol is a central nervous system depressant. Alcohol acts by inhibiting parts of the central nervous system important for sexual arousal and orgasm -- respiration, circulation and sensitivity of nerve endings. Alcohol dehydrates the body. Sexual arousal needs a certain amount of blood to bring oxygen and greater sensation to the genitals. Alcohol can make getting an erection more difficult. Large amounts of alcohol (or long-term) consumption has been associated with problems getting erections. Dehydration with drinking causes less blood volume and a rise in angiotensin, the hormone associated with erectile dysfunction. Alcohol's inhibition of the central nervous system also contributes to the problem. Alcohol can cause vaginal dryness. The dehydration common when drinking alcohol can contribute to fatigue, headaches and vaginal dryness. Alcohol can delay or prevent orgasm. In 2004, a study found 11% of alcohol users were likely to have problems reaching orgasm. The men had difficulty ejaculating while the women needed much more stimulation to have an orgasm than women who had little or nothing to drink. Are there positive impacts of alcohol on arousal? Some researchers recommend alcohol as a treatment to control ejaculation timing. While alcohol may be a temporary solution for some, there are more effective and permanent treatments for premature ejaculation. Visit our premature ejaculation page for more information. People who are tipsy or drunk have more difficulty physically reaching orgasm, but some do report feeling more pleasure subjectively. This may be attributable to relaxed social feelings and inhibitions. Click here to learn more about orgasm. What level of drinking is best for my sex life? If you want to have good sex for tonight and for years to come, not drinking alcohol at all or consuming no more than 1 to 2 drinks a night will allow you to enjoy sex without the negative physiological impacts discussed above. If you do drink, exchange a second or third alcoholic drink for a glass of water to combat the effects of dehydration and you and your sexual partner(s) will benefit. What if I'm concerned about my alcohol use? If you are a Brown student and you are concerned about your own use of alcohol or other drugs or a friend's use, you can have a free, confidential appointment at Health Promotion, 401.863-2794. Our focus is harm reduction, not abstinence, and we will work with you on the changes you choose to make. Located on the third floor of Health Services. What if I am confused about a sexual experience I've had? If you are confused about an experience you've had or not sure if your partner respected your boundaries, you can speak with someone on campus. Brown students can contact Alana Sacks, [email protected] or 401.863-2794, for confidential support. Please click here for more resources on and off campus. Related Links College Drinking: Changing the Culture Click on the section for students to find out about myths and facts, take an interactive tour of the flow of alcohol through the body or learn about alcohol poisoning. You can use the Calorie Counter to learn about the number of calories in different drinks and you can send an eCard to someone who's drinking worries you. The Blood Alcohol Calculator Learn how gender, body weight, food and how fast you drink can affect your blood alcohol concentration. This is an interactive tool that shows you how much alcohol is in different drinks and how your BAC would compare to male and female friends. Online Alcohol Screening This anonymous survey gives you feedback about the likely risks of your alcohol use. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook