Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Business Finance Campus Services Campus Services Bookstore Child Care Center Conference Services Dining Event Services McFarlin Memorial Auditorium Mail/Copy Central Moody and Miller Event Center Parking and ID Services Vending Contracts Facilities Facilities Barnes & Noble Expansion Bishop Boulevard Monument Refresh Clements Hall Scholars Den Cox School of Business Frances Anne Moody Hall and Land Development Hughes-Trigg Student Center - Gallery 1911 Owen Arts Center Renovation and Expansion Paul B. Loyd, Jr. All-Sports Center Room 318 A / C / F Renovation Robson and Lindley Aquatics Center Outdoor Pool Expansion Frances Anne Moody Hall and Land Development Tools and Forms Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium Interactive Map Human Resources Human Resources Coronavirus COVID-19 Employee Testing Information Fraudulent Unemployment Claims Working at SMU Contact HR Human Resources Initiatives Benefits & Wellness Learning & Development Retirement Resources Forms Office of Budgets and Finance Office of Budgets and Finance Academic Support Services Accounts Payable Asset Management Contact Us Financial Accounting Financial Planning & Analysis Financial Systems Office of Budget and Finance Forms Grant and Contract Accounting How To... Links and Tools Payroll Office Purchasing Site Map Tax Compliance Office Travel & Expense SMU Police Department SMU Police Department About Records and Reports CrimeLog Help and Services Report-a-Crime Community Resources Contact Risk Management Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety International & Domestic Travel Risk & Insurance Resources ☰ Business Finance SMU Business Finance Business Finance Business and Finance supports the University through innovative thought and leadership, collaboratively promoting the best interests of the University, influencing cultural change, and being effective stewards of resources by providing high quality services. Contact Us Investor Information Leadership and Offices The Business and Finance offices report directly to Christine Regis, Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer. Human Resources Sheri Starkey, Associate Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer Office of Budgets and Finance Ernie Barry, Associate Vice President for Budgets and Finance Office of Facilities Planning and Management Michael Molina, Associate Vice President of Facilities Planning and Management and University Architect Campus Services Alison Tweedy, Associate Vice President of Campus Services Office of Risk Management Leigh Ann Moffett, Associate Vice President and Chief Risk Officer Campus Police Jim Walters, Chief of Police Contracts Administration Melanie Bailey, Senior Contracts Administrator VP for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Christine (Chris) Regis serves as the University’s chief business and financial officer. Through supervision of seven direct reports, the vice president oversees a wide range of administrative functions supporting the University’s academic mission. The Vice President oversees and is accountable for the Budgets and Finance Office, Human Resources, Campus Services, Facilities Planning and Management, SMU Police Department, Risk Management, and Contracts Administration. Chris joined SMU in September 2007 from the University of California system, where she served as Assistant Vice President for Administrative Services for the Agriculture and Natural Resources Division since July 2005. Prior to her position at the University of California, she served for 12 years at Western New Mexico University (WNMU) as Vice President for Business and Administration. She is a certified public accountant, earned a B.S. degree in accounting from New Mexico State University, and an M.B.A. degree from WNMU. Chris’ involvement in community and professional organizations include service as a Children’s Medical Center of Dallas Operating Division Associates Board member, National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO) member, and previous service as a United Way Volunteer as a Community Impact Grant Panelist. Chris was a 2021 Outstanding CFO finalist for the D Magazine CEO Financial Executive Awards and was a 2018 recipient of the Texas Diversity Council Most Powerful and Influential Women of Texas Award. She is a past member of the Hansen Agricultural Center Advisory Board, Rotary Club of Silver City, Business and Professional Women, Optimist Club of Silver City, and ex-officio member of the WNMU Foundation. She was the Young Careerist for the State of New Mexico and is a Paul Harris Fellow. For information about this website, contact Lisa Palacioz, Assistant to the Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer, via phone (214) 768-1178 or via email palacioz@smu.edu. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share