COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Forward Together Podcast Section Menu Office of the President Podcast and Newsletters home Forward Together Forward Together Podcast Wichita State Research News Forward Together is a podcast hosted by Wichita State University President Rick Muma. In each episode, Dr. Muma and his guests discuss the aspirations and inspirations that drive Wichita State to be one of the nation’s most innovative public universities, known for providing impactful student experiences and driving prosperity for the people and communities we serve. Episode 6: May 2022 LatinX Food, Culture and Community in Wichita Celebrate the food and culture of the LatinX community with WSU President Rick Muma in the latest episode of the “Forward Together” podcast. Dr. Muma speaks with WSU faculty members and LatinX cultural researchers Dr. Enrique Navarro and Dr. Rocío Del Águila. Episode 6 Home Episode 5: April 2022 Innovation at Wichita State In this month's episode of the Forward Together podcast, we talk about all things innovation. Hear about the accessible comic book app WSU's Dr. Darren DeFrain developed, and learn more about next-generation networking technology with Shocker alum Khalid Raza. Episode 5 Home Episode 4: March 2022 Research at Wichita State Learn about some of the cutting-edge research being done at Wichita State University in our March Forward Together podcast. To celebrate Women's History Month, President Rick Muma speaks with Dr. Melinda Laubach-Hock, director of sustainment at WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research; and Dr. Coleen Pugh, vice provost for research and dean of Wichita State's Graduate School. Episode 4 Home Episode 3: February 2022 Providing Access to Higher Education On this episode of the Forward Together podcast, WSU President Dr. Rick Muma and his guests discuss WSU’s priority of making higher education accessible and how it helps build a stronger community and a stronger Kansas. Special guests include John Rolfe, president and CEO of the Wichita Regional Chamber of Commerce; and Isaac Brown, WSU men’s basketball head coach. Episode 3 Home Episode 2: January 2022 Annual Report On this episode of the Forward Together podcast, WSU President Dr. Rick Muma and his guests reflect on and celebrate all that Wichita State University has accomplished in 2021. Special guests include James Chung, founder of Reach Advisors and author of the Chung Report; and Dr. Kaye Monk-Morgan, vice president of engagement and planning at Wichita State University. Episode 2 Home Episode 1: December 2021 Digital Transformation In this inaugural Forward Together podcast, we focus on digital transformation in the arts. We're joined by Shocker alum Dean Hargrove — writer, director and producer, whose credits include “Columbo” and “Matlock — and Wichita State's dean of the College of Fine Arts, Dr. Rodney Miller. Episode 1 Home 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©