Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies A.M. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Programs Master of Arts Program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Master of Arts Program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies A.M. Information This interdisciplinary degree program is designed to provide recent graduates as well as mature professionals holding an A.B. degree and possessing a reading and speaking knowledge of Portuguese with a humanities/social science curriculum focusing on the Portuguese-speaking world. The requirements for this degree follow those of the A.M. in Brazilian Studies with the difference that students will be required to take at least three courses in Portuguese literature, history and culture and at least three courses in Brazilian literature, history and culture. Students will satisfy a Portuguese language proficiency requirement by taking POBS 1030 or passing a proficiency examination. As in the case of the other Master's degrees in the Department, a Master's Project is required unless the student is receiving this degree “in course.” Transfer Credit for All Master's Degrees Graduate work done in graduate residence at other institutions and not used in fulfillment of the requirements for a degree may be offered in partial fulfillment of the requirements for a Master's degree on recommendation by the department. However, the equivalent of at least seven semester courses must be completed in residence at Brown University. Students who wish to transfer credit for work done elsewhere should file an application with the Registrar as soon as possible. Forms are available in the Office of the Registrar. Related Files Graduate Student Handbook 21-22 Also in Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies A.M. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity