Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington About Osher Foundation Locations Teaching With OLLI-UW Programs Join OLLI-UW Donate Community Partners Donors Contact Us Menu About Osher Foundation Locations Teaching With OLLI-UW Programs Join OLLI-UW Donate Community Partners Donors Contact Us Featured Story Slideshow Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the UW A vibrant learning environment for adults over 50 Photo taken in 2016 Keep Learning, Keep Growing The Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the University of Washington (OLLI-UW) invites adults over the age of 50 to come together to share intellectual interests and make new friends through a range of exciting programs. Learn for the joy of learning, without tests, grades or papers. Explore Programs See what OLLI-UW has to offer — from thought-provoking courses and midday talks to study groups and more. View Programming View Locations Browse the different places where OLLI-UW programs are offered, and find a convenient location near you. Find Locations Become a Member Explore the benefits of OLLI-UW membership, which costs just $35 a year, and find out how to join. Join OLLI-UW Give to OLLI-UW Want to help OLLI-UW thrive for years to come? We welcome donations of any size. Support OLLI-UW "I am always on the lookout for programs that open doors to new ideas, deepen my understanding of a topic or challenge my thinking. OLLI-UW is such a program. I'm constantly impressed by the passion and genuine scholarship of its instructors. We're lucky to have this resource in our own back yard!" Dave Harrell OLLI-UW Member OLLI-UW Courses & Events Check out the OLLI-UW website to learn more about our courses, register for an event, become a member and much more! Explore OLLI-UW OLLI-UW in Action Watch this short video feature on the OLLI-UW program. Connect with us Get Updates Sign up to receive quarterly updates from the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the UW. Sign Up University of Washington Be boundless Privacy Terms Brought to you by UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA