Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Healthy Brown: COVID-19 <!--cke_bookmark_165S--><!--cke_bookmark_165E--> Effective Jan. 17, 2022, Brown’s testing program for COVID-19 will use rapid antigen tests as part of a comprehensive strategy for supporting community health. The University is making rapid antigen test kits and packs of KN95 masks available to all Brown students, faculty (including postdocs) and staff for the opening of the Spring 2022 semester as part of its health and safety protocols. Friday, Jan. 14, is the final day any vaccinated asymptomatic community member can schedule an optional PCR test through Verily. Employees and students with approved exemptions from COVID-19 vaccination will continue to be required to PCR test twice a week as they currently do, and they will receive further direct communication later this week. Collecting information on positive test results remains an important part of Brown’s COVID-19 response. The use of antigen tests for routine testing of vaccinated members of the community reflects emerging data that PCR tests are no longer the best available tool to reduce the risk of poor health outcomes from COVID-19 in a largely vaccinated and boosted population such as the Brown campus (which has achieved near-universal vaccination rates). Since June 2020, the University had maintained an on-campus routine testing program utilizing PCR testing for asymptomatic people, which became largely optional for vaccinated community members in early October 2021. While that program served the campus well rapid antigen tests answer the most important question in the Omicron era: “Am I infectious now?” They do so by detecting proteins from the virus that causes COVID-19. While no test is perfect, a positive rapid test result means that the person is very likely infectious at that point and must take steps to isolate themselves from others. PCR tests are designed to detect fragments of viral RNA, and while they are highly effective at doing so, they cannot determine who is actively infected and contagious; who might have transient colonization that never turns into an infection; or who might have been infected and recovered weeks ago. A PCR positive test result for any member of our community on any given date could potentially mean they were infectious many weeks or even months earlier, and does little to help the University reduce the risk of serious illness on campus in a current moment. Healthy Brown: COViD-19 Healthy Brown: COVID-19 Alternative Work Assignments Employee Vaccinations Leaves Related to COVID-19 Learning and Resources Community Resources Position Classifications Staff Town Halls Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat