Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Events BusinessFeed PR & Media Relations Programs Full-Time MBA Executive MBA PhD in Management Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Centers & Institutes Administrative Science Quarterly Careers For Recruiters Career Management Employment Reports Alumni Alumni Stay In Touch Leadership & Recognition Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Executive MBA Americas Program Home Programs Executive MBA Americas Program Global reach, Local setting. Earn an Ivy League MBA close to home with the Executive MBA Americas program. The Executive MBA Americas program is tailored to meet the needs of working professionals looking to advance their careers without interrupting them. Earn an MBA near you with weekend classes every other Saturday and Sunday. What makes the EMBA Americas program different? Its international classroom and network. Connect with classmates throughout North and South America through live, interactive videoconferencing as you attend in-person classes at your local boardroom or remotely from wherever you are. Offered in partnership with the Smith School of Business at Queen’s University, the Americas program presents a truly global experience that will advance your career and boost your leadership potential. Executive MBA Americas at a glance Degrees Awarded An MBA from Cornell University and an MBA from Queen’s University Location Select cities across North and South America or remotely Program Format Classes every other Saturday and Sunday with residential sessions Program Schedule 17 months of classes followed by a project, starts in late June More data and profiles Executive MBA Americas program highlights Teamwork is fundamental to the Americas experience—you will work closely with your learning team throughout the program while also engaging with classmates across the Americas. The diversity among your colleagues will lead to engaging conversations and new ways to solve challenges as you take classes every other weekend and participate in four residential sessions. Local convenience and dynamic teams Attend classes every other Saturday and Sunday with peers in select cities or remotely. During class, you’ll connect with classmates from five countries through videoconferencing technology as faculty teach live from Cornell’s campus. More about weekend classes Engaging residential sessions For in-depth coursework and networking opportunities, all students come together for four residential sessions. These sessions are split between the Cornell and Queen’s university campuses. More about residential sessions Immediately applicable curriculum Take what you learn in class on the weekend and apply it to your work on Monday. The Executive MBA Americas program features a series of required courses, two major projects, and electives. More about the Americas curriculum Executive MBA Americas BusinessFeed November 11, 2021 Veteran Voices: Meet US Marine Corps Captain Edmund Fuentes MBA ’22 Captain Edmund Thomas Fuentes MBA ’22 is a US Marine Corps and US Naval Academy veteran who is enrolled in the Cornell Executive MBA (EMBA) Americas program at the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management. January 25, 2021 Student Voices: Meet Osman Ghafoor, Executive MBA Americas Class of 2022 An IT manager who leads an offshore team of developers—learn why Osman Ghafoor joined the Executive MBA Americas Class of 2022. November 30, 2020 Student Voices: Meet Onyinye Akujuo, Executive MBA Americas Class of 2022 Grants manager, funding strategist, and Emerging Markets Institute Fellow—learn why Onyinye Akujuo joined the Executive MBA Americas Class of 2022. Applying to the Executive MBA Americas program If you think the Executive MBA Americas program might be right for you, we recommend you submit a pre-assessment as a first step. You should also review the admissions process and application requirements or consider attending an online info session or coffee chat in your city. Take a look at our EMBA admissions page and a list of upcoming events. Submit a Pre-Assessment Before you apply, you can complete a pre-assessment to see if you’re a good fit for the EMBA Americas program. Submit a pre-assessment Connect With Admissions We’ll send you information related to events in your area and provide resources to help you decide if the EMBA Americas program is right for you. Request information Attend an event Application Dates Round Deadline Fall deadline 11/15/21 Priority consideration 1/15/22 Expedited decision 3/15/22 Final submission 5/15/22 Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis, and will be accepted after the final deadline if space permits. Classes begin in late June 2022. Start your application Upcoming EMBA Americas admissions events There are no events to display. View all Admissions events Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Executive MBA EMBA Americas Format and Schedule Weekend Class Schedule Residential Sessions Class Facts & Profile Curriculum Faculty Tuition and Financing EMBA Metro NY Format and Schedule Weekend Class Schedule Residential Sessions Class Facts & Profile Curriculum Faculty Tuition and Financing EMBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Format and Schedule Weekend Class Schedule Residential Sessions Class Facts & Profile Curriculum Industry Connections Leadership Faculty Tuition and Financing Admissions Request Information Submit a Pre-Assessment Admissions Events EMBA Application Process EMBA Application Requirements Selection Criteria EMBA Career Development Contact EMBA Program Staff Americas: Apply Now Americas Admissions Events Submit a Pre-Assessment Request Information Quick Links Directory Visit Library News Articles & Features Information For Corporations Recruiters PR & Media Relations Cornell Community Site Info sitefeedback@johnson.cornell.edu Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Sage Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 800-847-2082 (US and Canada) 607-255-4526 mba@johnson.cornell.edu emba@cornell.edu gradadmissions@business.cornell.edu Faculty, Staff & Students LaunchPad JConnect – Students Campus Groups Faculty & Staff Intranet Webmail Publications Cornell Enterprise Magazine Administrative Science Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts Make a Gift © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Johnson Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.