Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Discoveries Menu Search TTU Research Home Discoveries All Stories Spring 2021 Texas Tech Mathematicians Use Time Scale Approach To Cancer Treatment By: Karen Michael How much of a medicine does a person need? How long should a cast be worn? How long should a person wait between vaccine doses? Mathematics is hardly the first concern a patient may have when diagnosed with an illness, but numbers are critical in treatment of many illnesses. Texas Tech University mathematicians, including Casey Mills, a doctoral candidate, and Raegan Higgins, associate professor of mathematics, are using a mathematical approach to modeling the treatment of prostate cancer, a disease that will likely affect one in six men in the United States. Patients who have been diagnosed with prostate cancer typically undergo intermittent androgen deprivation therapy prior to starting radiation or when surgery or radiation are not an option. Mills said these patients undergo cancer treatment for a few months, then go without treatment for a few months. Traditionally, continuous ordinary differential equations are used to model treatment. “They alternate between periods of on-treatment and off-treatment, and those periods last several months,” Mills said. “We've created a new approach using something called time scales, which are able to combine discrete and continuous time very well.” A discrete variable is countable in a finite amount of time, but a continuous variable will continue on forever. Casey Mills Most clinical models currently use strictly continuous time frames, Mills said. Because of the change between on- and off-treatment intervals, she and her advisor wanted to see if it was possible to combine the continuous and discrete to create a new model. “We were able to do that, and we've been able to make some improvements to our novel model,” Mills said. “Currently, we're introducing this very fresh thing called fractional calculus, which allows non-whole-number derivatives to be computed.” Higgins said previous approaches to the prostate cancer treatment the researchers are aware of were made on continuous time with no breaks. Raegan Higgins “What we're doing introduces the fact that you can model both the continuous time and discrete time. We want to more realistically reflect the break of switching from on-treatment to off-treatment to on-treatment to off-treatment, without just assuming that it's always continuous time,” Higgins said. “The benefit of this intermittent therapy is it gives patients a better quality of life. They're not getting so much treatment at once. The doctors can see if the treatment is working and adjust accordingly.” Previous models consider either discrete time or continuous time exclusively, but do not combine the two. This is where time scales come in, Higgins said. “You want to allow something to happen (continuous time), pause (discrete time), and then pick it (continuous time) back up,” Higgins said. In using data from six patients whose treatment intervals best fit their mathematical formulas, the Texas Tech mathematicians said they accomplished their goal of building a solid foundational model. “Right now, we have a very, very novel model, and it will require more building and collaboration with biologists to increase its chances of being used in a clinical setting,” Mills said. But the Texas Tech mathematicians are also interested in other uses for the time scales. Mills said a co-advisor on her dissertation thought it could be applied to ecology and algae growth. “Any intermittent data set could use time scales. There are countless potential applications,” Mills said. tags: College of Arts and Sciences, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Discoveries Spring 2021, Feature Stories, Features, Texas Tech, math Discoveries Like Office of Research & Innovation on FacebookLike Office of Research & Innovation on Facebook Follow Office of Research & Innovation on twitterFollow Office of Research & Innovation on twitter Subscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTubeSubscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTube Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Box 41075 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3905 Email vpr.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJul 6, 2021 10:49 AM Discoveries Current Issue Awards Briefs All Stories Research Home Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index