Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library / Collections Schlesinger Library / Collections Amelia Earhart In 1932, the aviation pioneer Amelia Earhart (1897–1937) became the first woman to cross the Atlantic Ocean by air. Toggle information Close detail panel Amelia Earhart, in plane, wearing flight helmet and pearls, 1926. Amelia Mary Earhart Papers. Hollis #: olvwork20003755 Related Amelia Earhart Papers Amy Otis Earhart Papers Clarence Strong Williams Papers Janet Mabie Papers Earhart—an aviator, mentor, and advocate for women's equality—was also renowned for piloting the first solo flight from Honolulu, Hawaii, to Oakland, California, in January 1935, and from Los Angeles to Mexico City in April 1935. She made two attempts to fly around the world in 1937. Her first attempt ended in March, when her airplane was badly damaged during takeoff in California. In June, she departed from Miami with Fred Noonan as navigator to fly west around the equator. On July 2, having completed 22,000 miles of the trip, Earhart and Noonan took off from New Guinea for Howland Island. They never reached their destination, and the circumstances of their disappearances remain unresolved. View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Amelia Earhart 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Amelia Earhart, in plane, wearing flight helmet and pearls, 1926. Amelia Mary Earhart Papers. Details Close detail panel Amelia Earhart and Paul Mantz looking at a flight chart or map together, 1937. Amelia Mary Earhart Papers. Details Close detail panel Bradley, Frederick. Amelia Earhart standing on the wheel of her airplane, probably the Lockheed "Vega.", 1934 Jan 22. Janet Mabie Papers. Details Close detail panel Amelia Earhart and three men checking the propellor of her airplane, ca. 1935-1937. Janet Mabie Papers. Details Close detail panel Amelia Earhart leaning against a wall, ca. 1932-1936. Janet Mabie Papers. Collections 01 / 01 Slide left Slide right 01 Women's Educational and Industrial Union Records See All Collections Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College