COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio May 31, 2022 — Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio is squeezing in a summer internship with Tesla in between his spring and fall internship with Delta TechOps. Anllir said the resources available at Wichita State have prepared him to succeed in his real-world career opportunities. Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters May 26, 2022 — An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge May 18, 2022 — Three Wichita State University students were named the champions of the 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge with their idea to ease parking frustrations via an app called Everwhen. Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley May 16, 2022 - Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award May 9, 2022 — Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. Meet a Shocker: Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga May 3, 2022 — The strength of Wichita State University's engineering program brought Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga to Kansas from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Barton School of Business to award $40,000 in scholarships to Butler CC students April 26, 2022 — The W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University is helping Butler Community College students interested in furthering their business education with $40,000 in scholarships. These scholarships will help amplify and activate the coordinated “2+2” program between the two schools where Butler students can receive their associates degree and pursue a business degree at WSU. Wichita State's MagicHand team takes project to NSF Innovation program April 15, 2022 - MagicHand, an anthropomorphic robotic hand designed by a Wichita State University engineering team, is participating in the National Science Foundation Innovation Corps program. The MagicHand is designed to achieve various dexterous object manipulations including object sorting, arranging and packaging. WSU's engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas March 29, 2022 — In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University once again was ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs in the country and the only institution in Kansas to make it in the top 100. WSU College of Engineering awards $313,500 in Wallace Scholarships March 25, 2022 — Wichita State University’s College of Engineering has named the latest group of high school seniors to join the Wallace Scholar program. Ten Wallace Scholarship recipients will receive $28,500 each to attend Wichita State for four years. In addition, two students receiving other major university scholarships will be designated as Wallace Scholars. Wichita State students learn backstage at NCAA's basketball showcase March 24, 2022 — Around 12-15 Wichita State students are volunteering for the practices and events surrounding the NCAA women's basketball Sweet 16 and Elite Eight games. Their responsibilities range from organizing practice schedules to decorating locker rooms with NCAA and school logos to working with media members on credentialing and seating. Some will run statistics. For those planning on a career in athletics, the applied learning experience adds to their resume and gives them experience working a nationally recognized event with large crowds and a television audience. WSU to remove mask requirement on campus; masks strongly recommended March 3, 2022 — In accordance with recently updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, effective Friday, March 4, masks will no longer be required for students, employees or visitors, regardless of vaccination status, while on or in Wichita State University premises or while attending campus activities or athletic events (unless otherwise noted). This includes all indoor and outdoor campus locations. Internships with Lockheed Martin and Toyota help student prepare for the future Feb. 11, 2022 — As a young boy growing up in Oklahoma City Nicolas Reyes loved to hear the hum of the fighter jets from the nearby Tinker Air Force Base. Nicolas Reyes — a junior studying electrical engineering in Wichita State’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering — has always wanted to work in the aviation industry. He finally got his chance this past summer when he completed a virtual internship with Lockheed Martin. While there, Nicolas worked on the F-35 Lightning II for their location in Fort Worth. Students took a lead role in Dockum lunch counter sit-in in summer of 1958 Feb. 4, 2022 - The Dockum Drug Store sit-in of 1958 attracted new attention in 2021 during Black History Month, in part thanks to NBC’s “Today” and Wichita native Sheinelle Jones. Several University of Wichita students participated in the sit-in, which is increasingly recognized as a landmark event in the Civil Rights Movement. NBC’s “Today” featured the events in a 2021 broadcast. WSU announces winners of $64,000 Gore Scholarship Jan. 28, 2022 —Wichita State University has selected the 2022 recipients of the Harry Gore Memorial Scholarships. Each student will receive a $64,000 scholarship to attend WSU in fall 2022. 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©