Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Human Resources Menu Toggle Search Jobs@ISU Adventure2 Workday HR Portal Main navigation Careers Job Seekers Manage Your Career New Employee Employee Benefits Insurance Additional Benefits Prospective/New Employees Retiree Benefits Retirement Plans HR Delivery About Directory Services Employee Tools ISU WorkLife Growth & Development Managers of Student Employees Labor/Union Relations Time and Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Accommodations Employee Management Conflict in the Workplace Forms Benefits Careers Requests Contact Student Employees Student & Scholar Health Insurance Program (SSHIP) Medical and Dental coverage for students and their dependents. Student Employment Guidance This guide provides an overview of Iowa State University’s student employment process. The guide outlines eligibility for student hiring, requirements, standards, practices and tools used to assure compliance with the legal standards set forth in the student hiring process. The guide was developed to consolidate various resources, information and processes that contribute to the student employment experience at ISU. Information for graduate assistant student employees Absence and Personal Leave Arrangements for a leave of absence are made between you, the graduate assistant, and your supervisor. When you need to be absent for either personal reasons or due to an illness, your supervisor should be understanding and accommodating to that need. At the same time, you should attempt to plan personal leave so that it does not interfere with or cause neglect of the duties associated with your appointment. Workplace Accommodations Request disability and religous accommodations from your supervisor. Workers' Compensation Iowa State student employees covered under the Iowa workers' compensation law. Questions? UHR Service Center Graduate College Related Links Graduate College Handbook Iowa State University University Human Resources Contact University Human Resources 3810 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, IA 50011 hrshelp@iastate.edu 515-294-4800 phone 515-294-8226 fax Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...