Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Computer Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT From designing computer software to developing a child's toy, computer engineers' work is far ranging, complex and collaborative. With each class you take, we'll teach you how to tackle problems and challenges that integrate computer capability and help create new, state-of-the-art products. This program has a strong foundation of math, computer science and the physical sciences, and you'll become proficient in your understanding of both hardware and software. Just as important, you'll learn the business implication of your future work and how to communicate ideas and innovations to a wide range of people. FAST FACTS The Holcombe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering is one of Clemson’s largest, with more than 500 undergraduates and 200 graduate students. According to data from 2018-2019 computer engineering graduates, the average starting salary is $71,000. Some graduates have gone on to study at MIT, Stanford, Berkeley and Georgia Tech. Our graduates have found positions with companies such as Google, Boeing, Amazon, GE and Raytheon. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you'll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you'll apply as a general engineering major. Teamwork and collaboration are crucial for computer engineers to master, so from your first day on campus, you'll learn how to solve real-world problems as part of a team. You'll study circuits and electronics, computer hardware and computer software to name a few. Senior year, you can narrow your study focus even more by choosing one of the following technical elective tracks: communications and networks; digital signal processing; electronics; robotics; computer hardware; and software and architecture. Many of our students take their studies and concept understanding to the next level by participating in Clemson's cooperative education program. With this program, you'll spend alternating semesters on campus and working at an industry partner, which allows you to take what you're learning in the classroom and apply it in the workplace, and vice versa. Curriculum Computer Engineering, B.S. Popular Minors Electrification of Transportation Cybersecurity Computer Science Similar Majors Computer Information Systems (B.S.) Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Electrical Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM From the iPhone to the robot, computer engineers at Clemson have the opportunity to design, create and program utilities by applying classroom concepts to the building of computer devices. Computer engineering majors also have the opportunity to make connections, assume leadership roles and get hands-on experience in the industry. Design A two-semester capstone experience gives our students hands-on experience in designing, building and programming a mechatronic system to compete against fellow students. Ambassador As an upperclassman, join the ECE Undergraduate Ambassadors and be a cheerleader for this department. Conduct recruiting events for prospective students, direct study halls and network with faculty, alumni and fellow students. Robotics Design, build and program robots to accomplish given tasks using MathWorks MATLAB software during this semester-long class specifically for freshmen. Learn More » Co-op Put your classroom knowledge to work by spending alternate semesters working at an industry and studying on campus as part of Clemson's cooperative education program. Learn More » CONNECTIONS Form mentorships with electrical and computer engineering alumni or strong advocates. Mentors stay in touch with their mentee students throughout the academic year to motivate and excite them about the field. COMPETE Lead your own course to meet yearly IEEE challenges and compete against teams from universities across the Southeast. Participate multiple times and gain hands-on experience and leadership skills. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Eta Kappa Nu Study Abroad Summer Research Program PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Google Boeing Amazon Web Services Naval Information Warfare Center General Electric RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Computer Science University of Utah M.S. Computer Engineering Clemson University Ph.D. Biomedical Engineering Vanderbilt University M.S. Computer Engineering Carnegie Melon University COMMON CAREER AREAS Electrical / Computer Engineering Power Electronics Power Systems Communications Electronics Control Systems Digital Signal Processing Microelectronics Image Processing and Robotics Computer Engineering Plasma Engineering Computer Vision Any Engineering Discipline Production Sales and Marketing Management Consulting Research and Development Teaching Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Computer Engineering (B.S.) Computer Information Systems (B.S.) Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Electrical Engineering (B.S.)