Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Activating Accomplice-ship at Columbia: Working Group Events Past Event Activating Accomplice-ship at Columbia: Working Group Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo June 22, 2021 5:30 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Activating Accomplice-ship at Columbia: Working Group for Examining and Deconstructing Whiteness to Mitigate Racial Trauma OPEN TO STUDENTS (UNDERGRAD AND GRAD) ENROLLED AT MORNINGSIDE CAMPUS OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY OR AFFILIATES 5-week interactive working group meets every Tuesday from 5:30pm-7pm (ET) beginning 6/15/21 Please register using this link: http://bit.ly/CUactivatingaccompliceship This is an interactive virtual space for white-identified students to engage in exploration of their white identities and build community and accountability around deconstructing whiteness and white privilege to facilitate the development of an antiracist lens. Through a 5-week interactive curriculum, this group aims to begin to equip students with the time, space, and skills for the self-reflection and processing of privilege that is necessary to meaningfully dismantle systems of racial oppression from a position that has privilege. Through increasing self-awareness and centering justice, as well as the recognition of history and its impact on the present, students will build skills around empathy, responsibility in action, and interrogation of knowledges we use and value while centering compassion, healing, and vulnerable, open dialogue. This space will not be a support group for white students. Nor will it be comfortable or easy. What it will be is a meaningful, challenging step for those who feel called in and ready to start taking their appropriate place in creating a more just Columbia community. *Due to the open and online nature of this virtual working group where building community and relationships that invite accountability are central to the success and sustainability of this effort for everyone, we ask that you be able to attend all 5 sessions. *Although this space is not private or confidential, participants are asked to be respectful and mindful of each other and practice discretion. *Please email Alice! Health Promotion ([email protected]) with any questions or for further information. Contact Information Alice! Health Promotion [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close