Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Innovation For Business For Partners Tech Transfer FedEx Institute of Technology UMRF Research Park Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Innovation Partners Innovation Partners The University of Memphis is ready to collaborate with your organization to advance research and innovation nationally. If you have an idea for partnership, want to explore opportunities for collaboration, or are interested in learning about how research and innovation partnerships work at the University of Memphis, feel free to email research@memphis.edu with your questions. Below are just a few examples of how we have partnered to advance research and innovation. Benjamin Hooks Papers Digitization Project The Benjamin Lawson Hooks Papers collection is housed in the Preservation & Special Collections Department of the University Libraries.This digitization project is a cooperative project of the University Libraries and the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, University of Memphis. The Libraries' responsibility extends to archival processing, preservation, and publication through the University Libraries Digital Repository. Technical guidance and direction are provided by the University Libraries' faculty and staff while the Institute provides the necessary financial support. This project was made possible by the generous support of DuPont (Wilmington DE), Federal Express, and the Hyde Family Foundation. For even more partnerships that bring the University of Memphis together with nonprofit organizations committed to building research and innovation capacity, contact us at research@memphis.edu. FedEx Institute of Technology Partners Program As part of the FedEx Institute of Technology's mission to build Memphis' capacity as a technology resource and destination for innovation, the Institute partners with community technology nonprofits to create opportunities. Over 11 community-organized meetups currently meet at the FedEx Institute of Technology each month, and the Institute plays host to five nonprofit hackathons: HACKMemphis, EthMemphis, AthenaTechne, GiveCamp Memphis, and CodeCrew Hacakthon. This is an example of a partnership that brings University resources and the wider community together to expand the opportunities for creating innovation. The University of Memphis Institute for Arts and Health A growing interest in arts and health initiatives within the higher education sector, both nationally and internationally, combined with the ongoing pursuit of high-profile research has led to the creation of The University of Memphis Institute for Arts and Health. The institute, led by Dr. Anne Hogan in collaboration with colleagues at the university and throughout the Memphis community, aims to facilitate opportunities for faculty, staff, graduate students and community partners to share best practices, as well as explore opportunities to develop and secure funding for interdisciplinary research projects broadly related to the arts and health while contributing to a more diverse and equitable society. Learn more. West Tennessee STEM Hub Led by Herff College of Engineering Associate Dean of Research Dr. Stephanie Ivey, the West Tennessee STEM Hub project impacts 36 Local Educational Agency partnerships in 12 counties, including urban, suburban, and rural districts with nearly 17,000 teachers and approximately 240,000 students. The diverse geographic and demographic settings offer the ability to assess the effectiveness of different STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) teaching and learning strategies for the West Tennessee region. With a board comprised of corporate and community leaders, the West Tennessee STEM Hub is an example of a partnership that transcends organizations to affect real change in the region. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.