Skip to main navigation Skip to main content apply visit give Information for: Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean’s Message Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Diversity Advisory Board Facts & Figures History & Traditions Dean Rita P. Kelleher Award Grand Rounds Pinnacle Lecture Series Tenure Talks Our Spaces News & Events Contact Us Admission & Aid Overview Why BC Nursing? Tuition & Aid Tours & Info Sessions Related Links Find Your Path Facts & Figures Living in Boston Academics Overview Find Your Path Bachelor’s Program Master’s Program Doctor of Nursing Practice Program (D.N.P.) D.N.P. in Nurse Anesthesia Ph.D. Program Continuing Education Related Links Admission & Aid Faculty Directory Clinical Experience Research Continuous Program Improvement Plan Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Nadia N. Abuelezam Stacey Hoffman Barone Stewart M. Bond Ann W. Burgess Lindsey Camp Melissa PéRez Capotosto Catherine Conahan Maureen Connolly Donna Cullinan Sabianca Delva Julie P. Dunne Andrew Dwyer Joyce K. Edmonds Susan Emery Jane M. Flanagan Susan Gennaro Katherine E. Gregory Nanci Haze Elizabeth Howard Dorean Behney Hurley Dorothy A. Jones Corrine Jurgens Susan Kelly-Weeder Kellie Lavin LaPierre Christopher Sean Lee Karen Lyons Cherlie Magny-Normilus Kathleen Mansfield Carol Anne Marchetti Alison O. Marshall Beth McNutt-Clarke Erin Murphy-Swenson Tam H. Nguyen Luanne Nugent Monica O'Reilly-Jacob Britt Pados Jinhee Park Victor G. Petreca Patricia Reid Ponte Richard Ross, S.J Cassie Ryan Sherri B. St. Pierre Christine Repsha Colleen Simonelli Jacqueline Sly Patricia A. Tabloski Allan Thomas Sheila Tucker Patricia C. Underwood Melissa Kurtz Uveges Brittney van de Water Judith Vessey Caitlin McManus Vitale Lisa J. Wood Laura White Research & Clinical Focus Open Faculty Positions The Barry Family/Goldman Sachs Endowed Professorship in Nursing The Lelia Holden Carroll Endowed Professor in Nursing Related Links The Marjory Gordon Program Boston College Vice Provost for Research Clinical Experience Overview Become a Preceptor Simulation Lab Community Overview Student Leadership Opportunities International Programs Living in Boston Career Services Related Links Why BC Nursing? CSON Traditions BC Campus Life Current Student Resources Office of Student Services Close Directory A to Z Listing Search CSON Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close apply visit give Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home sites Current Students Current Students Current Students The Connell School fosters a culture of support and excellence that positions our students to be leaders on campus, in our local communities, and abroad. Guidelines, Procedures, and Resources Undergraduate Master's Ph.D. DNP Student Handbook, Guidelines, and Procedures Undergraduate Student Handbook 2021-2022 Curriculum Structure Reasonable Accommodations for Qualified Individuals with Disabilities in Clinical Courses Core Requirements for Connell School Students Connell School Student Advising Guide Fact Sheet on Connell School Minors Directed Independent Study in Nursing (NURS4911) Student Grievance Procedure Academic & Student Support Resources Abroad Options for Nursing Students State Board Guidelines Academic Process Guide NCLEX Information Sheet Boston College Resources Undergraduate Catalog Current undergraduate catalog information located on the Student Services website Courses Undergraduate course and schedule listings Student Services Information on academic services, financial services, parking, ID cards, student employment, and more Financial Aid Financial resources and application materials Forms Forms for academic issues, financial aid, medical insurance, student employment, student loans, and parking Academic Calendar Boston College academic calendar Library Information on Boston College's O'Neill Library, nursing collection, and research help Study Abroad Preparing students for citizenship, service, and leadership in a global society Undergraduate Government/Student Organizations The voice of the student community on campus Boston College Career Services Resources for nursing careers AHANA Office of AHANA (African American, Hispanic, Asian and Native American) Student Programs Plans of Study Undergraduate Curriculum Plan Worksheet CSON Curriculum Plan Overview Forms: Permission for undergraduate student to enroll in a graduate nursing course (Update coming) The Bachelor of Science program is designed as a 4-year, 8-semester, full-time program, and while there is some flexibility within the program, a fully accredited rigorous prelicensure baccalaureate nursing curriculum incorporates the University-wide core requirements. The Undergraduate Programs Office reserves the right to limit the number of transfers (externally and internally) during any academic year. Transfer Information External External Transfer Information (from outside BC or from Woods College of Advancing Studies) All external transfer (students who have completed studies at another institution of higher learning or the BC Woods College of Advancing Studies) applications are handled by the admissions office. Applicants should normally have completed 2 semesters of Anatomy and Physiology with laboratory as well as 1 semester of Chemistry with laboratories. Ideally they will also have completed a semester of Statistics (in any department) along with a college-level mathematics class or a statistics course taught in a department of mathematics. Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry are prerequisites for progression to Pathophysiology and Health Assessment, the required sophomore courses that are themselves prerequisites for beginning the clinical course sequence. Pathophysiology and Health Assessment are given in the fall semester only. Therefore, students who have not completed Anatomy and Physiology and Chemistry (with labs) will likely be extending their program for at least one semester (beyond the 8 full-time semesters of college normally required for a BC undergraduate) unless they can complete anatomy and physiology and chemistry in the summer before their first semester at BC. (Under specific circumstances, subject to availability of clinical placement slots and with approval of the Undergraduate Associate Dean, a specific clinical sequence change can be made that will permit an August graduation rather than a December graduation for students who do not complete prerequisites for the sophomore sequence until the fall of their 3rd year of college, but this route comes with disadvantages and access to it cannot be guaranteed.) Students who transfer into the program with all science courses and who have not had a 2-3 credit introductory nursing course will be required to complete NURS 2070 Introduction of Professional Nursing in their fall semester concurrently with the first-semester sophomore course sequence. The 1-credit NURS 1010, Nursing Professional Development Seminar, will be waived for transfer students, but they will be offered an opportunity to meet with other transfer students and upperclassman group leaders in the fall semester. For more information, please contact Jeffrey Gallant, Associate Director of Transfer Admissions, at jeffrey.gallant@bc.edu. Internal Internal Transfer Information (from CSOM, MCAS, & LSOE) Internal transfer applications from CSOM, MCAS, and LSOE to the CSON BS (nursing) program are handled through the Undergraduate Program Office. Effective immediately, all internal transfers to the Connell School of Nursing’s BS (nursing) program of students who are in their first or second year in one of the other 3 undergraduate schools at Boston College (the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, the Lynch School of Education, or the Carroll School of Management) will be handled through a formal application and selection process in the Spring for a once-a-year transfer intake for the following fall. Application packets will be available online as of January and will be due in mid-March. There are prerequisite courses required for entry into second year and students should begin planning to take them as soon as they decide they are serious about applying. Detailed information about the application process and prerequisites can be found here. Please email questions regarding the internal transfer process e-mail questions regarding the internal transfer process to ugnurse@bc.edu. Undergraduate Research Fellows Program The Undergraduate Research Fellows (UGRF) Program enables students to gain firsthand experience in scholarly work by participating with a faculty member on a research project. Students receive a monetary award based upon the scope and duration of the project. Academic credit is not granted through the program. Fellowships may also be available for summer terms. Contact the Office for Nursing Research at 617-552-3123 for more information or inquire with faculty directly to express your interest in being involved in their research. Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Program The Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing (KILN) program assists students to maximize their leadership potential, prepares them for the challenges of providing nursing care in our increasingly multicultural society, and nurtures their ability to create positive social change. KILN scholars receive financial support, faculty mentorship, and opportunities to network with nurse leaders as they pursue their undergraduate or graduate studies. View the KILN Page Nurses Associations National Student Nurses’ Association (NSNA) With a membership of approximately 60,000 nationwide, the National Student Nurses’ Association mentors the professional development of future registered nurses and facilitates their entrance into the profession by providing educational resources, leadership opportunities, and career guidance. Massachusetts Student Nurses’ Association (MASNA) MASNA is the Massachusetts branch of the National Student Nurses’ Association. Membership in MASNA is open to any nursing student in Massachusetts who is also a member of the National Student Nurses’ Association. Boston College chapter Boston College hosts a local chapter of NSNA New England Regional Black Nurses Association (NERBNA) Part of the national effort to unify, educate, and increase the number of African American nurses in this country. The National Association of Hispanic Nurses (NAHN) Promoting Hispanic nurses to improve the health of our community. Sigma Theta Tau The International Honor Society of Nursing's Alpha Chi Chapter at Boston College. Alpha Chi embodies and shares the founding values of Sigma Theta Tau International: Wisdom, Discernment, Love, Courage, Honor, Service, Professional Endeavor, Leadership, and Knowledge. Sigma Theta Tau International is the international honor society of nursing. Constituent chapters are established in collegiate schools of nursing accredited by the national accrediting body recognized by the profession. Alpha Chi Chapter is located at Boston College School of Nursing, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. Sigma Theta Tau International is professional rather than social and its purpose and functions may be compared to other honor societies. CSON International Opportunities Each year, CSON offers nursing-specific international programs for undergraduate and graduate students. Learn About International Programs Additional Information: Chile: Undergraduate students have the opportunity to travel to Santiago, Chile, in a three-week-long program in January. Ecuador: In this semester-long program, students take classes at Universidad San Francisco de Quito and complete their community health nursing clinical courses by providing care for rural populations. Dominican Republic: The trip to the Dominican Republic is open to undergraduate students and graduate students. Contact Clinical Instructor Rosemary Byrne at rosemary.byrne@bc.edu if you are interested in this program or with questions. Haiti: The trip to Haiti is open to undergraduate students, graduate students, and alumni. Contact Clinical Assistant Professor Donna Cullinan at donna.cullinan@bc.edu if you are interested in this program or with questions. For more information on this trip and to read personal experiences of those who have been on the medical mission, visit their blog. Nicaragua: The trip to Nicaragua is open to undergraduate students and graduate students. Contact Clinical Instructor Rosemary Byrne at rosemary.byrne@bc.edu if you are interested in this program or with questions. Switzerland: This four-week summer interdisciplinary elective brings together students and faculty from Boston College and Switzerland to examine issues on the forefront of global health. Plans of Study & Forms Traditional Master's Plan of Study RN - MS Generalist Plan of Study Post-Baccalaureate MS Generalist Plan of Study CRNA Plan of Study Direct Entry, MS Advanced Generalist Plan of Study List of Professional Nursing Standards and Guidelines addressed by the Master's Program Other Forms Independent Study Form Research Elective Form Graduate Student Grievance Procedure Immunization Release Form Emergency Contact Form Student Handbook & Resources You are bound by the regulations of the student handbook you received when you started your graduate studies at Boston College. Please make sure you refer to the correct handbook. Boston College Code of Student Conduct Anesthesia Handbook Addendum Master's Student Handbook 2021-2022 Master's Student Handbook 2020-2021 Master's Student Handbook 2019-2020 Master's Student Handbook 2018-2019 Master's Student Handbook 2017-2018 Master's Student Handbook 2016-2017 State Board Guidelines Boston College Resources Graduate Catalog Current graduate catalog information located on the Student Services website. Courses Graduate course and schedule listings Student Services Information on academic services, financial services, parking, ID cards, student employment, and more Financial Aid Financial resources and application materials Scholarships Available scholarships and external resources Forms Forms for academic issues, financial aid, medical insurance, student employment, student loans, and parking Academic Calendar Boston College academic calendar Library Information on Boston College's O'Neill Library, nursing collection, and research help Research Resources Valuable resources for those engaged in research and grant-related activities AHANA Office of AHANA (African American, Hispanic, Asian and Native American) Student Programs Commencement Information for graduates and their families External Links The National Association of Pediatric Nurse Associates and Practitioners (NAPNAP) American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Massachusetts Coalition of Nurse Practitioners Association for Women's Health, Obstetric, and Neonatal Nurses (AWHONN) American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP) Nurse Practitioner Associates for Continuing Education (NPACE) The National Association of Hispanic Nurses (NAHN) Graduate Nurses Association The mission of the Graduate Nurses Association is: To communicate information between the masters program specialties and the doctoral programs in nursing To communicate between the Graduate Student Association and the students in the graduate programs in nursing To act as a liaison with the dean's representative regarding student issues To act as a change agent in response to various student issues when feasible To contribute service/outreach to the community All graduate students of the Boston College School of Nursing are members of the Graduate Nurses Association (GNA). There is no enrollment form or entry fee. Please see our calendar of events and make an effort to attend! Email us at bcgradnurses@gmail.com For more information about the GNA, a calendar of events and contact information, visit our website. Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Program The Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing (KILN) program assists students to maximize their leadership potential, prepares them for the challenges of providing nursing care in our increasingly multicultural society, and nurtures their ability to create positive social change. KILN scholars receive financial support, faculty mentorship, and opportunities to network with nurse leaders as they pursue their undergraduate or graduate studies. View the KILN Page Sigma Theta Tau The International Honor Society of Nursing's Alpha Chi Chapter at Boston College. Alpha Chi embodies and shares the founding values of Sigma Theta Tau International: Wisdom, Discernment, Love, Courage, Honor, Service, Professional Endeavor, Leadership and Knowledge. Sigma Theta Tau International is the international honor society of nursing. Constituent chapters are established in collegiate schools of nursing accredited by the national accrediting body recognized by the profession. Alpha Chi Chapter is located at Boston College School of Nursing, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. Sigma Theta Tau International is professional rather than social and its purpose and functions may be compared to other honor societies. CSON International Opportunities Each year, CSON offers nursing-specific international programs for undergraduate and graduate students. Learn about each of the programs Additional Information: Dominican Republic: The trip to the Dominican Republic is open to undergraduate students and graduate students. Contact Clinical Instructor Rosemary Byrne at rosemary.byrne@bc.edu if you are interested in this program or with questions. Haiti: The trip to Haiti is open to undergraduate students, graduate students, and alumni. Contact Clinical Assistant Professor Donna Cullinan at donna.cullinan@bc.edu if you are interested in this program or with questions. For more information on this trip and to read personal experiences of those who have been on the medical mission, visit their blog. Nicaragua: The trip to Nicaragua is open to undergraduate students and graduate students. Contact Clinical Instructor Rosemary Byrne at rosemary.byrne@bc.edu if you are interested in this program or with questions. Switzerland: This four-week summer interdisciplinary elective brings together students and faculty from Boston College and Switzerland to examine issues on the forefront of global health. Plans of Study & Forms Ph.D. Plan of Study Other Forms Course Transfer Request Form Comprehensive Examination Application Form Doctoral Change in Advisor Form Dissertation Committee Formation Form Dissertation Committee Change Form Intent to Submit Dissertation Proposal Form Dissertation Proposal Hearing Scheduling Form Dissertation Proposal Hearing Outcome Form Intent to Defend Doctoral Dissertation Form Dissertation eSignatures Title Page Form (eSignature Instructions) Dissertation Defense Outcome Form Dissertation Guidelines Dissertation Title Page Dissertation Copyright Page Dissertation Submission Checklist Graduate Student Grievance Procedure Student Handbook You are bound by the regulations of the student handbook you received when you started your graduate studies at Boston College. Please make sure you refer to the correct handbook. Boston College Code of Student Conduct Ph.D. Student Handbook 2021-2022 Ph.D. Student Handbook 2020-2021 Ph.D. Student Handbook 2019-2020 Ph.D. Student Handbook 2018-2019 Ph.D. Student Handbook 2017-2018 Ph.D. Student Handbook 2016-2017 Boston College Resources Courses Graduate course and schedule listings Office for Sponsored Programs (OSP) Service to members of the BC community involved in sponsored projects Student Services Information on academic services, financial services, parking, ID cards, student employment, and more Financial Aid Financial resources and application materials Forms Forms for academic issues, financial aid, medical insurance, student employment, student loans, and parking Academic Calendar Boston College academic calendar Library Information on Boston College's O'Neill Library, nursing collection, and research help AHANA Office of AHANA (African American, Hispanic, Asian and Native American) Student Programs Commencement Information for graduates and their families Graduate Nurses Association The mission of the Graduate Nurses Association is: To communicate information between the masters program specialties and the doctoral programs in nursing To communicate between the Graduate Student Association and the students in the graduate programs in nursing To act as a liaison with the dean's representative regarding student issues To act as a change agent in response to various student issues when feasible To contribute service/outreach to the community All graduate students of the Boston College School of Nursing are members of the Graduate Nurses Association (GNA). There is no enrollment form or entry fee. Please see our calendar of events and make an effort to attend! Email us at bcgradnurses@gmail.com For more information about the GNA, a calendar of events and contact information, visit our website. Plans of Study & Forms Post-Baccalaureate DNP Plan of Study RN (ASN) to DNP Plan of Study Direct Entry DNP Plan of Study Post-Master's DNP Plan of Study CRNA DNP Plan of Study Other Forms Independent Study Form Research Elective Form Graduate Student Grievance Procedure Immunization Release Form Emergency Contact Form Student Handbook You are bound by the regulations of the student handbook you received when you started your graduate studies at Boston College. Please make sure you refer to the correct handbook. Boston College Code of Student Conduct DNP Student Handbook 2021-2022 DNP Student Handbook 2020-2021 DNP Student Handbook 2019-2020 Boston College Resources Graduate Catalog Current graduate catalog information located on the Student Services website. Courses Graduate course and schedule listings Recommended Electives List of recommended graduate electives for CSON Student Services Information on academic services, financial services, parking, ID cards, student employment, and more Financial Aid Financial resources and application materials Scholarships Available scholarships and external resources Forms Forms for academic issues, financial aid, medical insurance, student employment, student loans, and parking Academic Calendar Boston College academic calendar Library Information on Boston College's O'Neill Library, nursing collection, and research help Research Resources Valuable resources for those engaged in research and grant-related activities AHANA Office of AHANA (African American, Hispanic, Asian and Native American) Student Programs Commencement Information for graduates and their families External Links The National Association of Pediatric Nurse Associates and Practitioners (NAPNAP) American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Massachusetts Coalition of Nurse Practitioners Association for Women's Health, Obstetric, and Neonatal Nurses (AWHONN) American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP) Nurse Practitioner Associates for Continuing Education (NPACE) The National Association of Hispanic Nurses (NAHN) Graduate Nurses Association The mission of the Graduate Nurses Association is: To communicate information between the masters program specialties and the doctoral programs in nursing To communicate between the Graduate Student Association and the students in the graduate programs in nursing To act as a liaison with the dean's representative regarding student issues To act as a change agent in response to various student issues when feasible To contribute service/outreach to the community All graduate students of the Boston College School of Nursing are members of the Graduate Nurses Association (GNA). There is no enrollment form or entry fee. Please see our calendar of events and make an effort to attend! Email us at bcgradnurses@gmail.com For more information about the GNA, a calendar of events and contact information, visit our website. Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Program The Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing (KILN) program assists students to maximize their leadership potential, prepares them for the challenges of providing nursing care in our increasingly multicultural society, and nurtures their ability to create positive social change. KILN scholars receive financial support, faculty mentorship, and opportunities to network with nurse leaders as they pursue their undergraduate or graduate studies. View the KILN Page Sigma Theta Tau The International Honor Society of Nursing's Alpha Chi Chapter at Boston College. Alpha Chi embodies and shares the founding values of Sigma Theta Tau International: Wisdom, Discernment, Love, Courage, Honor, Service, Professional Endeavor, Leadership and Knowledge. Sigma Theta Tau International is the international honor society of nursing. Constituent chapters are established in collegiate schools of nursing accredited by the national accrediting body recognized by the profession. Alpha Chi Chapter is located at Boston College School of Nursing, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. Sigma Theta Tau International is professional rather than social and its purpose and functions may be compared to other honor societies. CSON International Opportunities Each year, CSON offers nursing-specific international programs for undergraduate and graduate students. Learn about each of the programs Open Lab Hours: Currently Unavailable Monday No open lab Tuesday No open lab Wednesday No open lab Thursday No open lab Friday 1:00-3:00pm Saturday No open lab Sunday No open lab Lounge Hours Monday–Thursday 9:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Saturday Closed Sunday 3:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m. Early Morning Shuttle Hours for Clinicals The BC Shuttle Bus now offers early morning hours for CSON clinical students on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday. Pick-up Locations: Robsham Theater Bus Stop 2000 Commonwealth Avenue Pick-up Times: 5:30 a.m. 6:00 a.m. 6:30 a.m. Track the BC Shuttle online Career Services Nursing Awards/Opportunities Nursing Career Descriptions Advice and Information Job Listings Employer Listings Licensing, Certification, and Grad School Professional Associations Nurse Practitioners Nursing Awards/Opportunities Minority Nurse Scholarships Use the Personalized Search Tool to match your background and qualifications to the best scholarship options for you. National Health Service Corp Scholarship program This scholarship is awarded to students pursuing primary health care professions training in NHSC-eligible disciplines in return for a commitment to provide health care to communities in need upon graduation and the completion of training. National Health Service Corp Loan Repayment program This national program offers primary care medical, dental, and mental and behavioral health providers the opportunity to have their student loans repaid for serving communities in need. Massachusetts Loan Repayment Program for Health Professionals The Commonwealth of Massachusetts offers educational loan repayment as an incentive for health professionals to practice in communities where significant shortages of health care providers and barriers to access have been identified. Nursing Career Descriptions Nursing - What can I do with this major? Excellent overview of career options related to your nursing major. Advice and Information ADVANCE for Nurses Provides concise, practical information on clinical, management, professional, and career development issues for nurses practicing in all areas of the profession. Best Hospitals Finder US News & World Report hospital rankings. Lippincott's Nursing Center AJN Online; info on nursing forums, journals and articles, licensure and certification information, nursing organizations, continuing education, and career guides. Minority Nurse Magazine Career and education resource for minority nursing professionals, students, and faculty. Includes information on scholarships and employers. Job Listings MAHospitalCareers.com Sponsored by the Massachusetts Hospital Association, this website helps you locate jobs in nursing, physical therapy, radiology, orthopedics, and much more. Mass.gov Search for nursing jobs with Massachusetts state agencies. [under Jobs by Industry, find Nursing] Nurse.com In addition to scoping out their job listings, you can subscribe to their free magazine. USAJobs Search for jobs in the federal government. Employer Listings Best Hospitals Finder Want to work in a top hospital? Check out US News & World Report rankings. CareerShift BC students may register and use this website to search for potential employers and jobs, and manage their job search process. Case Management Resource Guide Database of 110,000 companies in 40 categories of health care services and resources, including: Homecare, Rehabilitation, Long-Term Care, Assisted Living Facilities, Subacute Care, Addiction & Psychiatric Services, Pharmaceuticals Companies, Air Medical Transport, and much more. Family Planning Agencies in MA The Family Planning Program promotes and provides comprehensive family planning services, which include clinic-based services and may include community education and outreach. Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) in MA Licensed in Massachusetts with links to their websites. Massachusetts League of Community Health Centers Non-profit community-based organizations offering comprehensive primary and preventive health care, including medical, dental, social, and mental health services to anyone in need regardless of their medical status, ability to pay, culture, or ethnicity. Licensing, Certification, and Grad School National Council of State Boards of Nursing Contains NCLEX examination information and an interactive NCLEX candidate diagnostic profile. It also includes position papers by the National Council, state nurse practice acts and nursing regulations, and resources for health care consumers. American Nurses Association A listing of state associations of nursing for all states, commonwealths, and territories can be found here. BestNursingDegree.com An excellent way to search for nursing programs by degree and location. Nursing Continuing Education Each state's requirements for Continuing Education (CE) credits. Graduate School Rankings From US News & World Report Peterson's Database of Nursing Programs Provides nursing schools or departments, on a voluntary basis, the opportunity to communicate details about their programs to prospective students. Guide to Hospital Nursing Residency Programs for New B.S.N.s UPenn's Career Services guide provides a list of hospitals providing structured programs for new B.S.N.s. The guide is organized alphabetically by state. Professional Associations American Nurses Association A listing of state associations of nursing for all states, commonwealths, and territories can be found here. Massachusetts Nursing Association The MNA is the largest union and professional association of registered nurses and health professionals in the state. National Student Nursing Association The NSNA is a nonprofit organization for students enrolled in associate, baccalaureate, diploma, and generic graduate nursing programs. It is dedicated to fostering the professional development of nursing students. Nursing Associations and Organizations Links to U.S. and international nursing associations. Nurse Practitioners American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Job listings (must be a member); publications and research; conferences; Continuing Education. A national nonprofit membership organization headquartered in Washington, DC, the ACNP is focused on advocacy and keeping NPs current on legislative, regulatory, and clinical practice issues that effect NPs in the rapidly changing health care arena. Massachusetts Coalition of Nurse Practitioners Supports advanced practice nursing across all specialty areas and organizations in Massachusetts. Includes a For Students section, as well as a Career Center with job listings. Also offers resources on graduate nursing programs, licensing bodies, and nursing organizations. Calendar of Events Quick Links Events & Traditions Current Students Why BC Nursing? Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Facts & Figures Back To Top Back To Top Connell School of Nursing Maloney Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Call: 617-552-4250 About Admission & Aid Academics Faculty & Research Clinical Experience Community Apply Visit Give Find Your Path Connect with Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College