Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Visit Visit There is no Place Like Nebraska Van Brunt Visitors Center 313 N. 13th St. Lincoln, NE 68588-0256 800-742-8800, ext. 9800 Mon–Fri: 8am–5pm Sat: By appointment Also: 3 hours prior to home football game kickoff East Campus Visitors Center Holdrege St. & Dairy Store Dr. Lincoln, NE 68583 402-472-2942 Mon–Fri: 10am–6pm Sat–Sun: 12pm–4pm Closed Sundays from Jan–Mar Quick Links Events Parking Maps Visit Attractions Art, culture and history are important parts of the campus landscape. If you have time while you’re here, take in one of several art and museum collections, take in a theatre performance or stroll through our campus gardens. Lied Center for Performing Arts Sheldon Museum of Art Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center University of Nebraska State Museum Great Plains Art Museum Robert Hillestad Textiles Gallery International Quilt Study Center & Museum Eisentrager·Howard Gallery Kruger Collection Howell, Studio and Lab Theatres Campus Gardens Tractor Museum General John J. Pershing Display Nebraska Repertory Theatre School of Music Athletics Whether it’s football, basketball, volleyball, or another sport, there’s a lot of excitement around Husker athletics. Find everything from ticket information to schedules right here. Husker Athletics Gameday in Lincoln Parking Shop If it’s books for classes, authentic Husker attire to show off your pride, or even cheese from the Dairy Store, you’ll find it here. UNL Marketplace University Bookstore Official Nebraska Athletics Store Extension Offices As a land-grant institution, the university serves the entire state of Nebraska through research-based education. Nebraska Extension County Office List Water Resources Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.