Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Urban Studies Urban Research Resources Urban Research Resources Urban Research Resources Research is an important aspect of Urban Studies, particularly within the rapidly altering landscape of the 21st Century urban setting. We encourage you to explore a diverse amount of organizations, student groups, and periodicals that will give insight to the many challenging topics that you may encounter while exploring or conducting your research. (Please note the list is not in any particular order so scroll through and have fun exploring sites that may be new to you.) Places Places Journal is an essential and trusted resource on the future of architecture, landscape, and urbanism. The journal harnesses the power of public scholarship to promote equitable cities and resilient landscapes. In Places you will find writers, designers, and artists who are responding to the profound challenges of our time: environmental health and social inequity, climate change, resource scarcity, human migration, rapid technological innovation, and the erosion of the public sphere.These challenges demand that we rethink how we plan, design, construct, and maintain the built environment. They also demand that ambitious design research and practice move from the margins to the center of cultural discussion. Global Urban History Global Urban History is a Blog both global and urban history. Taking into consideration recent charges that global history is in danger of an imperial overstretch, we aim at grounding our interest in historical connectedness in analyses of concrete local processes. This combination, we hope, illuminates the inherently uneven outgrowths of urbanized globalization. While treating cities as nerve centers of long-distance connections and engines of momentous historical developments, we therefore also explore how they produced segmented, unequal, and unmixed cityscapes. Our blog works closely with the Global Urban History Project, whose aims we share and which we encourage our readers to join. The Metropole The Metropole is the Official Blog of the Urban History Association. Cities Today Cities Today is the only global magazine containing analysis, comment and best practices on sustainable urban development, connecting local governments with public and private sector solutions. Atlas of Urban Expansion Part of the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, the Atlas provides the geographic and quantitative dimensions of urban expansion and its key attributes in cities the world over. Urban Ecology Urban Ecology is published to provide information and encourage dialogue on issues related to the urban environment, city and regional planning, and metropolitan affairs. Urban Omnibus Urban Omnibus is an online publication dedicated to defining and enriching the culture of citymaking. We explore projects and perspectives in architecture, art, policy, and activism – tried and tested in New York City – that offer new ways of understanding, representing, and improving urban life and landscape worldwide. Brookings Institute Metropolitan Policy Program The Brookings Institute provides decision makers with timely trend analysis, cutting-edge research and policy ideas for improving the health and prosperity of cities and metropolitan areas. Urban Cultural Studies Urban Cultural Studies is an interdisciplinary, multi-authored blog dedicated to the culture(s) of cities…space, time and urban everyday life the world over. Center for Urban Research The Center for Urban Research housed at CUNY, organizes basic research on the critical issues that face New York and other large cities in the U.S. and abroad. The World Bank - Sustainable Cities The Sustainable Cities blog is a space for urban development professionals to exchange ideas and engage some of the central questions of sustainable cities: What makes a sustainable city? How do we measure a city's sustainability? Urban Land Institute ULI is the oldest and largest network of cross-disciplinary real estate and land use experts in the world. ULI is its members. Through our members' dedication to the mission and their shared expertise, the Institute has been able to set standards of excellence in development practice. H-Urban H-Urban is a moderated multi-disciplinary forum for discussion and dissemination of scholarship on urban history and urban studies. H-Urban has no geographical or chronological boundaries. Thus, we welcome the involvement of scholars, professionals, and graduate students who are interested in urban places and processes across the globe and in all eras. Urban Institute The Urban Institute is the United States’ leading research organization dedicated to developing evidence-based insights that improve people’s lives and strengthen communities. With nearly 50 years of expertise, Urban is a trusted resource for timely, nuanced analysis of social and economic policy. City Observatory City Observatory is a website and think tank devoted to data-driven analysis of cities and the policies that shape them. The website will feature posts that tackle misconceptions about cities, break down the latest urban research, and highlight the innovative ideas that strengthen our communities. Greater Places Greater Places is creating a new platform to showcase the best in community design: placemaking, planning, policies and public participation. GreaterPlaces features the We connect people looking for ideas with civic innovators around the globe. urbanNext urbanNext’s main goal is to generate a global network to produce content focused on rethinking architecture through the contemporary urban milieu —urbanity that is conditioned by the specificities of the information society, sustainable awareness, globalized knowledge and leisure. The Why Factory The Why Factory is a global think-tank and research institute, run by MVRDV and Delft University of Technology and led by professor Winy Maas. It explores possibilities for the development of our cities by focusing on the production of models and visualizations for cities of the future. WebUrbanist WebUrbanist is a city-centric, visual-oriented online publication about art, design and built environments. Our compliment of veteran authors cover global stories about architecture, technology, travel and more. Flaneur Flaneur is a nomadic, independent magazine focussing on one street per issue. The magazine embraces the street’s complexity, its layers and fragmented nature with a literary approach. The content of the magazine is produced with and for Flaneur by artists of all disciplines while the team spends two months on location. It is made using a collaborative, impulsive and unconventional approach. The magazine attempts to use a single microcosm to tell universal stories. Center for Urban Policy Research Center for Urban Policy Research provides Basic and applied research on a broad spectrum of public policy issues. Side Walk Labs Side Walk Labs is an Alphabet company that imagines, designs, tests, and builds urban innovations to help cities meet their biggest challenges. We work with cities to develop products and tools that can address existing problems and drive toward the city of the future. Also in Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Urban Studies Events Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity