Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Ostriker and Stone elected to National Academy of Sciences by the Office of Communications May 17, 2022, 5 p.m. Two Princeton faculty members have been elected to the National Academy of Sciences this year. They are among 120 new members and 30 international members chosen in recognition of their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. Membership in the academy is one of the highest honors given to a scientist or engineer in the United States. Established in 1863, the academy now has 2,512 active members and 517 international members, who are nonvoting members of the Academy with citizenship outside the United States. Eve Ostriker Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy The newly elected members from Princeton: Eve Ostriker, the Lyman Spitzer Jr. Professor of Theoretical Astrophysics, a professor of astrophysical sciences and the associate chair of the Department of Astrophysical Sciences; and James Stone, the emeritus Lyman Spitzer Jr. Professor of Theoretical Astrophysics and an emeritus professor of astrophysical sciences and applied and computational mathematics at Princeton, as well as a professor in the School of Natural Sciences at the Institute for Advanced Study. James Stone Photo courtesy of the Department of Astrophysical Sciences The National Academy of Sciences is a private, nonprofit institution that was established under a congressional charter signed by President Abraham Lincoln in 1863. It recognizes achievement in science by election to membership, and — with the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Medicine — provides science, engineering and health policy advice to the federal government and other organizations. Other Princetonians to join the National Academy of Sciences in the past decade: Peter Constantin, elected 2021 Anne Case, elected 2020 Jacob Lurie, elected 2020 Eliot Quataert, elected 2020 Jennifer Rexford, elected 2020 Suzanne Staggs, elected 2020 Elke Weber, elected 2020 Janet Currie, elected 2019 Helen Milner, elected 2019 Nieng Yan, International Member, elected 2019 Ali Yazdani, elected 2019 Sanjeev Arora, elected 2018 Orley Ashenfelter, elected 2018 Dalton Conley, elected 2018 David MacMillan, elected 2018 Peter Ozsvath, elected 2018 Virginia Zakian, elected 2018 Matias Zaldarriaga, elected 2018 Nima Arkani-Hamed, elected 2017 F. Duncan Haldane, International Member, elected 2017 David A. Huse, elected 2017 Roberto Car, elected 2016 Igor R. Klebanov, elected 2016 Adam Burrows, elected 2015 Angus Deaton, elected 2015 Howard A. Stone, elected 2014 Kathryn Edin, elected 2014 Manjul Bhargava, elected 2013 Susan Fiske, elected 2013 Juan Maldaceña, elected 2013 Avi Wigderson, elected 201 William Bialek, elected 2012 Pablo Debenedetti, elected 2012 John Groves, elected 2012 Nai Phuan Ong, elected 2012 Related Stories Six faculty members elected to National Academy of Sciences Read more Four Princeton professors elected to National Academy of Sciences Read more Four Princeton professors elected to National Academy of Sciences Read more FACULTY AWARD: Four Princeton faculty elected to National Academy of Sciences Read more Computer scientist Raz named 2018 Simons Investigator Read more Twelve Princeton faculty elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Read more Mathematician Codá Marques named 2020 Simons Investigator Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice