Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Career Prep Career Prep Get real-world ready Meet the new day with the skills you need. At IU, you’ll be able to refine your skills, build new ones, and enter the professional world ready for anything. We’re here to help you, of course. Your academic and career advisors serve as your guides, ensuring you stay on a path that leads to success. Make every day count in your grand adventure Maybe you’ve been on the same career path since kindergarten. Maybe you change your mind about what you’re going to “do” every other day. It doesn’t matter. At IU, you have the time and freedom to try new things—and when you keep your mind open to the possibilities, there’s no telling what you can discover. Learn to speak Romanian. Join a student organization like the Bloomington Ad Club or the Crimson CORPS. Run for Union Board. Every time you explore something new, you’re getting better prepared for the future.Explore new things And experience life on a global scale There’s a reason we’re always in the top 10 for the number of students who study overseas—it’s a life-changing experience we do our best to encourage at every educational level. Whether you choose to spend a semester studying in Europe or a summer interning in China, you can learn things that you never even think about in your ordinary life on campus.Get a global education 95 percent of IU seniors feel they’ve acquired job- or work-related knowledge and skills. Discover the rewards of research Whether you’re studying chemistry, psychology, or communications, it pays to put what you’ve learned to the test and try your hand at research. IU has more than 100 research centers and institutes to choose from, studying almost anything you can think of. Some research is conducted in traditional labs, with test tubes and beakers. But many research centers do their work out in the real world, in every environment you can imagine. And most welcome students at every education level.Find the right research program for you No matter which direction you turn, your path leads to success Career preparation is built into the fabric of IU. After all, you’re here to get an education that prepares you for whatever comes next, whether that’s a job or graduate school. You have access to career development services throughout your time as an IU student. And you’re encouraged to pursue internships, volunteer activities, and service learning opportunities to build your resume at every turn.See how we help you build your career This is one story that never has to end Although you can’t remain a student forever, your IU adventure can continue wherever life takes you. There are more than 725,000 graduates waiting to connect with you and help you reach your goals, so whatever the ideal future looks like to you, they can work with you to make it happen.Learn about your network Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University