Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Success Skills Workshops » Step by Step Guide to Register Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Main Page Make an Appointment Workshop Policies Workshop Descriptions How to Register You are be able to register for upcoming workshops up to nine days prior on the TutorTrac website. Follow the steps below to register for the next workshop: Click on the "Make an Appointment" button at the top of this and any other Learning Commons page, which will redirect you to the Learning Commons TutorTrac scheduling website. Enter in your UC username and password. Click on the "Search Availability" button in the top left hand corner. Select the proper filters to find the best workshop for you: Click on "Center" and select "Success Skills Workshops - Online and In-Person". Leave "Consultant" blank. Click on "Section" and select "Success Skills Workshop". Click on "Reason" and select whichever delivery method ("Online" or "In-Person at Clifton") you would like to view. If you click the blank space, you will see both online and in-person options. Then click "Search". Note: if you choose other filters or if all workshops are full, you will see an error message. Choose a hyperlinked time to reserve a space for the workshop. This will pop up an Appointments Entry box. Select "Save". In order to receive priority access to open seats and information, please register as soon as possible. After registering, you will receive two additional reminder emails to your UC email account. The first will come three to four days prior to the workshop and the second reminder email will come on the day of the workshop. How to Cancel You may cancel your registration by 11:00 AM on the day the workshop without penalty. If you cancel after 11:00 AM or do not attend the workshop, you will receive a No Show status. To cancel your workshop, you must do ONE of the following: Cancel on TutorTrac: Click the "Make an Appointment" button at the top of this page and sign into the Learning Commons TutorTrac page with your UC 6+2 information. On the welcome screen, look under "Upcoming Appointments" to see the workshop you are registered for. Click on the small grey and white “X” following the appointment description. Call the Learning Commons at (513) 556-3244 and tell them that you would like to cancel your Success Skills Workshop. Be prepared to give: Your first and last name M# (found on your UC ID) Date of the workshop you would like to cancel NOTE: The Learning Commons has many services; you must specify that you are canceling your Success Skills Workshop as to avoid confusion with other reserved services and appointments you may have. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top