<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Visit Visit Virtual Campus Tour → Visit Visit Virtual Campus Tour Visiting HBSVisiting HBS    By virtue of its immersion in the case method, the richness of its section life, and the depth and breadth of its extracurricular activities, the HBS MBA Program is best appreciated through direct experience. If you are interested in applying, we encourage you to visit our campus (but please note a visit to campus is not required or expected). Please check our schedule of online and in person outreach events around the world. Take a Seat in the Case Method Classroom Pioneered by HBS faculty, the case method presents the greatest challenges confronting organizations and places the student in the role of the decision maker. Pioneered by HBS faculty, the case method presents the greatest challenges confronting organizations and places the student in the role of the decision maker. Pioneered by HBS faculty, the case method presents the greatest challenges confronting organizations and places the student in the role of the decision maker. Pioneered by HBS faculty, the case method presents the greatest challenges confronting organizations and places the student in the role of the decision maker. Take a Walk through our Residential Campus Learn how our students interact with our 40-acre campus. Learn how our students interact with our 40-acre campus. Learn how our students interact with our 40-acre campus. Learn how our students interact with our 40-acre campus. 40 acres 34 buildings 6 residence halls Admissions Visitor Center The Admissions Visitor Center is located in Spangler 107 and will be open Mondays and Fridays starting June 3, 2022 from 9:00AM-4:00PM. Class Visit Program The excitement, energy, and unexpected insights generated by case method education make it unlike anything students have experienced before. There are currently no class visits available but we invite you to check back in the fall to sign up. Please be aware of our class visit policies: You must be registered to attend a class; we cannot accommodate walk-in or stand-by visitors and we do not maintain a waitlist for class visits You must adhere to the HBS Visitor and Guest Health Protocols You must be 18 or older to visit a class Campus Tours and Information Sessions The Admissions Office hosts campus tours and group information sessions throughout the year to help answer your questions about the MBA program and the admissions process. Admissions Events Engage with students, alumni, and admissions staff at online and in-person events around the world. Student Club Conferences Discover the student club conferences held each year. Campus Map See a map of the Harvard Business School campus. Get to Know the Area Read about the top attractions in Boston. Keep HBS Healthy Visitors and guests hosted by individuals, departments, and student organizations are welcome on campus, subject to Harvard University vaccination and booster requirements and following all safety protocols. ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College