Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the President President right arrow down arrow The President right arrow down arrow President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address The Office right arrow down arrow Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady right arrow down arrow Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Communications right arrow down arrow News Next: President's Report right arrow down arrow Next Report Fall 2019 Next Report Spring 2019 Next Report Fall 2018 Spring 2021 President's Report Statements Thought Leadership The Power of Vision Presidential Awards right arrow down arrow President's Award for Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Priorities right arrow down arrow Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group right arrow down arrow Report Contact Home » About UC » President » The Office » Governmental Relations Set Navigation title in component Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Governmental Relations The Division of Governmental Relations identifies areas of opportunity for the university within local, state and federal government and develops plans to actively advocate on its behalf. UC lobbyists are on the ground in Cincinnati, Columbus and Washington, D.C. Advocating for UC Want to advocate for UC but not sure where to start? Contacting elected officials can be accomplished through several forms of communication. Please reach out to our office for assistance--we are here to help! Below are some basic instructions and guidance for various contact methods: By phone or email right arrow down arrow When calling or emailing a legislator’s office, state that you are a student, alumni, constituent, friend of the university, or other category that applies to you. Express that you would like to speak with someone in the office about an issue related to higher education or UC specifically. Keep in mind that you may not be able to contact the legislator directly; however, the aides and other staff members will be fully informed about the legislator’s position on the issue. If you cannot speak to anyone immediately, be sure to request a return phone call and leave your name, the issue you are calling about, and the best phone number to reach you. Ohio Legislative Information Hotline: 1-800-282-0253, Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m. To find the phone number and email of your specific representative, go to the Ohio House of Representatives Directory Contact Governor DeWine's office By letter right arrow down arrow To find your representatives' address, go to the Ohio House of Representatives and Ohio Senate websites. See the acceptable salutation and closing for letters below: Ohio Representative The Honorable [Name] Ohio House of Representatives 77 South High Street Columbus, OH 43266 Dear Representative [Name], Sincerely Yours, Ohio Senator The Honorable [Name] Ohio Senate The State House Columbus, OH 43266 Dear Senator [Name], Sincerely Yours, In person right arrow down arrow To make an appointment, contact the legislative office through the resources provided in the "By phone or email" section. Understand that the office is busy and you may need to wait a few weeks or months before your scheduled appointment. Prepare for the meeting by acquiring information about the issue you intend to discuss and create a one-page sheet regarding your position. Make sure you arrive at least 10 minutes early the day of the meeting and dress in business professional attire. Things to keep in mind when contacting elected officials Be respectful to everyone you speak to, regardless of the medium. Keep in mind that tone of written communication is often difficult to convey. Use your own words in written correspondence. Be concise and state your position in a clear, straightforward manner. If applicable, support your position with personal examples, anecdotes, etc. Research and understand any opposing viewpoints. Send a follow-up thank you email or physical card to staff members and legislators who take the time to respond to letters and emails, or meet with you in person. Mention a few key points from your conversation and any action items you requested. Email us with questions or concerns Advocacy as UC Alumni Resources Ohio General Assembly website Governor's website State agencies, boards and commissions Ohio Department of Higher Education Governmental Relations Staff Karen Ryan Executive Director for Governmental Relations 513-556-0733 karen.ryan@uc.edu Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top