Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Home About Who We Are Recognition and Awards Council for Diversity & Inclusion Corporate CDO Advisory Board Programs and Initiatives Men of Color National Summit Women's Roundtable Pre-Summit Supporting Diversity Contact Us Shared Leadership Access and Equity Charles H. Houston Center Diversity Education and Training Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic Outreach Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Title IX Commissions Accessibility Commission Commission on the Black Experience Commission on Latino Affairs LGBTQ Commission Commission on Women Veterans Commission Main Content About Council for Diversity and Inclusion (CUCDI) Clemson University’s Chief Diversity Officer and Executive Vice President and Provost Robert Jones co-chair the Clemson University Council for Diversity and Inclusion (CUCDI). Gill and Jones established the council to ensure students, faculty, staff and community members have the ability to share, address and resolve issues facing the university. The CUCDI is meant to represent every member of the Clemson community because each person contributes to our diversity and each person is responsible to make Clemson truly inclusive. MORE > Max Allen Vice President & Chief of Staff and Interim Chief Diversity Officer Robert H. Jones Executive Vice President & Provost 31+ Programs and Initiatives Created, and More to Come Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Kendra Stewart-Tillman, Ph.D. The Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center is committed to creating diverse learning environments that enhance the intercultural competence of our students. The center supports and advocates for the needs of all students, challenges students to think critically about themselves and their communities, provides engaging experiential learning opportunities and empowers students to be positive change agents. MORE > College Preparation & Outreach Amber Lange The Office of College Preparation and Outreach (CPO) is a newly formed department within Inclusion and Equity. Our purpose is to help prepare students from all over South Carolina for higher education. MORE > Charles H. Houston Center Lamont A. Flowers, Ph.D. The Charles H. Houston Center for the Study of the Black Experience in Education conducts empirical research, disseminates scholarly information, examines research-based best practices, addresses critical educational issues, and strives to produce research that makes a difference which informs the development of practices, policies, programs, and scholarship impacting educational and workforce outcomes among African Americans. MORE > The Office of Access and Equity Jerry Knighton The Office of Access and Equity coordinates the development of policy, procedures, programs and services related to equality of opportunity in employment, business access, admissions, retention, academics, advancement and general treatment for faculty, staff, students and visitors. Access and Equity accomplishes its mission through the implementation of activities in four main areas: Compliance, Education and Training, Outreach Programs and Research and Evaluation. MORE > Diversity Education & Training Kendra Stewart-Tillman, Ph.D. Our students, faculty, and staff need to be prepared to succeed in a more diverse and global workforce than ever before. As champions of diversity, equity, and inclusion we are making Clemson University, and the communities we serve, stronger through learning and development. MORE > Hispanic Outreach Julio C. Hernandez Providing leadership and support to recruit, retain, and foster a welcoming environment for Hispanic/Latino students, staff and faculty. Responsible for developing programs, services, events, and activities that promote understanding and appreciation for the Hispanic/Latino culture on campus and in our surrounding community. MORE > Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Altheia L. Richardson, Ph.D. Clemson University is undergoing a process whereby every college, division, university commission, as well as Faculty and Staff Senates are developing, implementing, and assessing strategic plans focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. The Assistant Vice President for Strategic Diversity Leadership provides leadership and support for the units involved in this process by providing a framework for the strategic planning process, providing data and other resources to inform the work being done, creating an online platform to house the strategic plans and meeting regularly with representatives from each unit for support and sharing of information throughout the process.MORE > Men of Color National Summit Debbie McKinney, Project Manager Providing leadership to plan and promote an inclusive environment for all students, staff and faculty under the Men of Color National Summit brand. Responsible for implementing national conferences throughout South Carolina to lead awareness of the changing U.S. demographic by enhancing the experience of men of color through involvement and engagement, preparing them for a global mindset. MORE > Alumni Relations & Development Corrine Grant Connecting alumni and friends of the university with opportunities to directly impact the lives of students, faculty, and staff. MORE > Program Manager Karon Donald Manager of Operations Leslie Doss VIEW OUR ORG CHART > 6 Commissions Dedicated to Diversity and Inclusion Accessibility Commission William "Billy" Edwards Commission on the Black Experience Alesia Smith Commission on Latino Affairs Rodrigo Martinez-Duarte LGBTQ Commission Keri Sather-Wagstaff Commission on the Status of Women Jean McKendry Veterans Commission Ashley Crisp What We Do The primary goals of Inclusion & Equity are: Guide the University’s diversity and inclusion agenda. Promote an inclusive and supportive campus and community environment. Identify and allocate appropriate resources to support University diversity initiatives. Promote the institution’s commitment and accomplishments regarding diversity and inclusion to internal and external communities. Create innovative programs and projects that advance and support campus diversity and inclusion. Develop, implement and coordinate a comprehensive strategic plan to advance the University’s diversity and inclusion goals. Consult, advise and collaborate with University officials and offices regarding diversity and inclusion issues and opportunities. Enhance recruitment and employment of underrepresented faculty and staff, as well as the recruitment of underrepresented students. Assess and report on institutional progress as it relates to diversity and inclusion. Represent the president and Clemson University as needed. Provide active leadership to ensure an institutional focus and emphasis on diversity and inclusion. Serve as the administrative liaison to campus commissions, committees and boards established to address various dimensions of diversity and inclusion. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram