Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Musical Theater Collaboration MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Apply Request More Info Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Musical Theater Collaboration Contribute to the development and creation of new musical theater performances with the Master of Fine Arts in Musical Theater Collaboration in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This innovative, three-year, 60-credit graduate degree prepares you for a career in the musical theater industry as a collaborating creative team member and independent artist engaged in the creation of new musical theater works. The Musical Theater Collaboration MFA’s unique curriculum is built upon field-driven, experiential techniques and craft-based training through production, studio and workshop opportunities. Our renowned faculty and guest artists are among the most innovative in the field of musical theater. The program mirrors the actual field-based creative process of generating new musical theater works, while teaching craft and collaboration skills vital to the process of creating a new musical. Graduates of the Musical Theater Collaboration MFA are prepared to become authors, composers, choreographers, directors, lyricists and playwrights, among others. Classes & Curriculum Over three years, you’ll take core courses focused on musical theater and research. These courses include American Musical Theater; Dramaturgy; Practicums in Musical Theater; and Script and Score Analysis. Learn more about courses for the Music Theater Collaboration MFA. Related Graduate Degrees Musical Theater Studies MA Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Design MFA Theater-Directing MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Program Contact Steven Gross is an associate professor and head of the Musical Theater Collaboration MFA. Phone: 215-204-2313 Email: abbottmfa@temple.edu Jim Short is the assistant dean for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Email: jshort@temple.edu Accreditation CA-MTC-MFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info