Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Events & attractions Cal Performances Want to get a taste of life at Berkeley? Daily activities, performances and events are open to the campus community and the general public. Expand your mind, stroll through the redwoods and root for the Golden Bears. Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive BAMPFA opened its new doors in downtown Berkeley! Art exhibits, film and archival materials are now open. Botanical Garden UC Berkeley’s 34-acre nonprofit research garden and museum boasts over 13,000 plants from around the world. The garden was established in 1890 and is open to the public year-round. California Memorial Stadium A complete renovation has transformed Berkeley's historic stadium. Find out about available tours. Cal Performances Cal Performances presents, commissions and produces artistic performances from world-renowned musicians, dancers, playwrights and more. Tickets Campanile tours Take a ride up the third-tallest bell- and clock-tower in the world. The observation platform, located 200 feet up, provides spectacular views of the campus and Bay Area. Carillon concerts are performed daily at noon. Lawrence Hall of Science UC Berkeley's public science center provides parents, kids and educators the opportunity to engage with science. Lunch Poems Former U.S. poet laureate, Robert Hass invites all to hear campus community members read their favorite poems over the lunch hour in Morrison Library. Magnes Collection Explore exhibits, artwork, texts and objects from the Magnes Collection of Jewish art and life. Noon concerts The Department of Music presents a series of free weekly concerts every semester. Music students and community musicians perform every Wednesday in Hertz Hall. Sporting events This is Bear territory. Root for the Golden Bears, winners of 87 team national championships, at your favorite events. Tickets Sproul Plaza Stroll through the social heart of the Berkeley campus, where students meet and the community gathers to voice opinions, raise awareness and pay homage to the Free Speech Movement. Strawberry Creek The North and South forks of Strawberry Creek meet on the Berkeley campus and flow westward toward the San Francisco Bay. Bridges and footpaths follow the creek throughout campus. Cal Performances Cal Performances (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Cal Performances [ Descriptive Transcript ] [ Text Transcript ] Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Cal Performances Close Art and science collide at Science@Cal exhibit Art and science collide at Science@Cal exhibit (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Art and science collide at Science@Cal exhibit Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Art and science collide at Science@Cal exhibit Close Cal athletics Cal athletics (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Cal athletics Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Cal athletics Close Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved