Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Special Students & Visiting Fellows Special Students Students who wish to take graduate level courses in a non-degree capacity are invited to apply to GSAS for Special Student status. Special Students are not degree candidates. Credit for a limited number of acceptable half-courses may be transferred into a degree program if the student is later admitted to graduate study, pending approval. Special Student status ordinarily is limited to a maximum of two terms, with extension possible only by reapplication. Visiting Fellows Scholars intending to do research who hold a doctorate, or have equivalent professional experience, or are advanced doctoral candidates who have completed all required coursework, may apply for Visiting Fellow status within Harvard University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Although Visiting Fellows are sometimes invited by departments or research centers to participate in seminars or other organized activities, they are expected for the most part to pursue their research independently. Visiting Fellows are normally admitted under the auspices of an academic department within GSAS. Visiting Fellows are registered as full-time research students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and have access to most university facilities. They are also eligible to apply for membership in the Harvard Faculty Club. To Apply Those wishing to apply for non-degree status as a Special Student or Visiting Fellows status should click here for information and how to apply. Restricted Courses Some courses are not available to Special Students, including research courses. These include all 300-level courses in the School of Engineering, as well as 299r courses. Courses may require instructor approval before you can register. A complete list of restricted courses can be found here. Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy