Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Lifelong Connections "At Princeton I became someone I never expected to be: an accidental activist. … In 29 years, one of you will be standing here, confident that this new crop of graduates will leave the world a better place than they found it." Jodi Picoult, Class of 1987 Best-selling novelist Finding Community From the moment you move into your dorm room or participate in your first Step Sing (at left), you will be meeting classmates who could be friends for life. Our close-knit, residential campus gives students the chance to live, eat, study and socialize together, and they find community in their housing facilities, classes and their many activities outside of class. During the special years you spend among Princeton's Gothic grounds, learning about yourself and the world around you, you'll bond with your classmates during late-night conversations after a night out or a night in the library, on road trips for games, in rehearsals for a dance or theater performance, and all the other moments that will create memories you will cherish once you leave … and that will keep you coming back. See More Photos From the Pre-Rade & Step Sing Play video: Play Video: Alumni, students, staff and professors discuss the arc of LGBT life at Princeton over the last 50 years. Coming Back More than 25,000 people come back to Princeton each year for Reunions, showing just how dedicated they are to reconnecting with their friends and the University. At Reunions and other events throughout the year — Alumni Day, fall football weekends, alumni conferences — the University offers a variety of intellectual, service and social activities ranging from athletic contests and arts performances to public lectures and Career Services events. Learn More The Princeton Network Being a Princetonian means having an expansive network to tap for personal and professional development. Princeton's strong Alumni Association offers opportunities to network on campus, around the world and online. Academic departments across the University also bring students and alumni together around shared interests. Career Guidance . Through the Office of Career Services, students and alumni can connect for one-on-one mentorship, internships and jobs, and broader career and networking events. Learn More Entrepreneurship . The University encourages students to apply an entrepreneurial mindset to education, research and public service. At Demo Day, above, alumni offer feedback on student startups. Learn More Connect Anywhere, Anytime Princeton alumni may reconnect with Princeton through volunteering with the Alumni Schools Committee, getting involved in one of the 160 regional associations around the world, going on a Princeton Journey with professors and alumni, coming back to campus, or taking part in other programs of the Alumni Association and University offices. Learn More One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice