Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE REHABILITATION MEDICINE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 REHAB 300 Introduction to Occupational Therapy (1) Introduction to occupational therapy profession. Provides historical perspectives, theoretical foundations, and clinical case studies in various practice arenas. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 300 REHAB 496 Special Topics in Rehabilitation (1-9, max. 14) Guided opportunity for in-depth study in specific areas of rehabilitation. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 496 REHAB 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 498 REHAB 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 15) Opportunity to design, perform, and analyze research investigation in problem areas in rehabilitation medicine. These include clinical and basic research problems in, for example, head and spinal injury, chronic disease, pain neurophysiology, electrodiagnosis, communication, and bioengineering. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 499 REHAB 500 Clinical Clerkship in Physical Therapy (4) Observation, instruction, and supervised practice in treatment of patients in diverse clinical settings. Emphasis is given to the application of previously learned material and skills to specific clinical problems. Required for physical therapy students. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 500 REHAB 502 Pediatric Physical Therapy (4-, max. 8) Provides foundational knowledge in development and an overview of pediatric physical therapy practice for children with atypical development. Presents examination, evaluation, and development of physical therapy plans of care for children with various disabilities within the frameworks of family-centered care and disablement models. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 502 REHAB 503 Lifespan III: Geriatric Physical Therapy (3) Theory and principles of exercise procedures used when treating the geriatric patient. Includes a discussion of age related changes in the systems essential to movement control; factors contributing to physical disability and frailty with aging; adaptation of assessment and treatment procedures to the geriatric patient. Lectures and laboratories. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 503 REHAB 504 Procedures I: Basic Physical Examination of the Extremities (2) Develops technical skills and theoretical foundations in the examination of patients from a neuromusculoskeletal perspective. Special emphasis on examination of the extremities, including applied anatomy, posture, screening tests, special tests, and scanning exams. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 504 REHAB 505 Introduction to Pharmacology (2) Pharmacological survey of drugs commonly prescribed for clients seen in a physical therapy practice setting. Presentations on basic principles. Additional data search and group reports. Overview of medical emergencies. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 505 REHAB 506 Procedures II: Basic Physical Examination of the Spine (2) Develops technical skills and theoretical foundations in the examination of patients from a neuromusculoskeletal perspective. Emphasizes examination of the spine including applied anatomy, posture, screening tests, special tests, and scanning exams. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 506 REHAB 507 Physical Therapy Procedures III: Modalities (3-4) Principles and practice of physical therapy clinical treatment procedures utilizing therapeutic modalities. Lecture and laboratory format. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 507 REHAB 508 Principles of Therapeutic Exercise (5) Theory, principles, and practice of exercise procedures used for treatment purposes in physical therapy, including motor learning, variables of motor performance, and exercise prescription. Lectures and laboratories. Simulated patient problems. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 508 REHAB 509 Rehabilitation Procedures: Functional Skills Assessment (1) Development of clinical competence in assessment and training of basic patient functional skills, including handling techniques, transfers, and assisted ambulation. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 509 REHAB 510 Rehabilitation Psychology (2) Focuses on understanding assimilation of disability, participation in rehabilitation, management of behavior, and maintenance of performance from both the practitioner and patient perspective. Focuses on the role of the psychologist in the rehabilitation team. Includes case study and case conference materials. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 510 REHAB 511 Musculoskeletal IV: Clinical Management (4) Physical therapy clinical evaluation and management of patients with musculoskeletal dysfunction. Special emphasis on upper quadrant anatomy. Lecture and laboratory format. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 511 REHAB 512 Musculoskeletal V: Clinical Management (3-4, max. 8) Physical therapy clinical evaluation and management of patients with musculoskeletal dysfunction. Special emphasis on upper and lower extremity musculoskeletal conditions. Lecture, laboratory and simulation learning format. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 512 REHAB 513 Special Studies in Physical Therapy (1-5, max. 15) Theory and practice in specialized areas of physical therapy. Includes organization and administration of specialized programs, advanced evaluation and treatment techniques, role of the consultant. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 513 REHAB 514 Systems Review for Physical Therapists (3) Development of advanced physical assessment skills to provide students with the ability to determine if a patient's disorder is within the scope of practice for physical therapy or requires referral to another healthcare provider. Lectures and laboratory format, with an emphasis on the lab component. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 514 REHAB 515 Advanced Neuromusculoskeletal Interventions in Physical Therapy (3) Advanced neuromusculoskeletal treatment techniques. Emphasis on review of manual therapy, exerciser and modality interventions in case studies across lifespan and continuum of care. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 515 REHAB 516 Medical Information for Rehabilitation Counselors (3) Lectures in medical science field regarding the etiology, prognosis, and physical restoration of common disabling conditions. Case studies are used extensively, and major emphasis is placed on vocational implications of physical disability. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Johnson View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 516 REHAB 517 Physical Therapy Seminar (2-, max. 12) Focuses on physical therapy topics pertaining to transcurricular and professional practice issues. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 517 REHAB 518 PT Professional Series III: Diversity, Inclusion and Health Disparities (2) In-depth exploration of health disparities in the United States based on race, ethnicity, culture, social economic status, or sexual orientation. Covers roles of health status indicators, social determinants of health, cultural competency, and access to health services. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 518 REHAB 519 P-Preceptorship in Rehab Medicine (1, max. 12) McNalley Explores the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation. Students observe a physiatrist one half day each week, and gain understanding of the management of acute injuries, chronic disease, and disabilities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 519 REHAB 520 Seminar (1-5, max. 12) Conferences, seminars, discussions of advanced physical medicine and rehabilitation topics for graduate students, residents, and postdoctoral fellows in rehabilitation medicine. Lectures, discussion, and laboratory work in selected aspects appropriate to elected area of study for applicants for master-level degree. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 520 REHAB 521 Survey of Pathophysiology for Rehabilitation (2-3, max. 6) J. Jandreau Uses a systems approach overview of the disease process and the impact it has on the rehabilitation process. Provides a foundation for understanding how dysfunction of major systems can influence a person's ability to move. Discusses risk reduction and prevention strategies surrounding diseases. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 521 REHAB 522 Physiological Topics in Rehabilitation Medicine (2) Reviews traditional physiological concepts related to the nervous, muscoskeletal, and cardiopulmonary systems as a foundation for rehabilitation practice. Includes recent advances in research and applicable case studies. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 522 REHAB 523 Neuroscience III: Applied Neurology (4) Theory and principles of advanced exercise procedures used when treating patients with neurologic pathology. Includes the application of principles of motor learning and control; facilitation and inhibition of variables affecting functional motor performance; adaptation of assessment and treatment procedures to patients with different types of neurologic impairments. Lectures and laboratories. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 523 REHAB 525 Exercise Physiology for Rehabilitation (3) Provides systems approach to exercise physiology, including cardiovascular and musculoskeletal response to exercise training, and the impact it has on the rehabilitation process. Reviews common disease processes that effect ability and tolerance, and may benefit from rehabilitation interventions. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 525 REHAB 527 Neuroscience IV: Special Topics in Neurologic Rehabilitation (3) Critical analysis and application of physical therapy assessment and treatment techniques to problems related to specific adult neurological disorders. Neurological disorders to be covered include stroke, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, and multiple sclerosis. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 527 REHAB 528 International Clinical Clerkship (2) Short-term clinical education experience outside the United States. Participants work in a mentored relationship as part of a multi-disciplinary rehabilitation team providing direct clinical services and consultation to patients and their care-givers. Sponsored sites selected and screened by clinical coordinator. Students may choose area of clinical focus. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 528 REHAB 529 PT Professional Series II: Professional and Practice Issues in Physical Therapy (2) Augments the student's understanding of the profession and current issues in healthcare. Includes healthcare delivery, scope of practice, professional organization, political activism, specialist certification, licensure, collaboration, therapeutic relationships, disclosure, privacy, and informed consent. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 529 REHAB 530 Medical Aspects of Vocational Counseling (2-3) Introduction to vocational implications of physical and emotional disabilities. Methods, counseling techniques, therapeutic modalities, community resources used in producing vocational assistance for persons with disabilities. Prerequisite: resident standing in rehabilitation medicine or permission of instructor. Instructors: Johnson View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 530 REHAB 531 PT Professional Series I: Critical Thinking Skills in Physical Therapy (2) Kevin J McQuade Introduces students to structured critical thinking for discussion and analysis of selected musculoskeletal approaches. Interactive small groups explore key papers with controversial or novel assertions, or that address commonly used treatment techniques. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 531 REHAB 532 Clinical Affiliation for Rehabilitation Counselors (5-6) Under preceptorship of rehabilitation counseling staff, students counsel and evaluate patients with severe physical, emotional, or social problems; administer vocational testing; obtain placement on job stations; work with community resources for vocational/educational placement; and develop activity-oriented schedules. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Johnson View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 532 REHAB 533 Diseases and Diagnosis in Rehabilitation (2-, max. 4) Provides an introduction to medical diagnoses and diseases having high rates of referral to rehabilitation services in order to promote comprehensive patient care. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 533 REHAB 535 PT Professional Series IV: Administration Issues (2) In-depth discussion of administrative issues overarching physical therapy practice, including economic trends, operational policy, budgeting, reimbursement, staffing, business structure, and entrepreneurship. Required for physical therapy students. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 535 REHAB 536 Patient Evaluation and Clinical Decision Making (1-2, max. 8) General principles and practice of physical therapy patient evaluation and use of the clinical decision-making models. The application of patient management principles through examination techniques and documentation strategies. Lecture and laboratory format. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 536 REHAB 537 Functional Mobility Skills (2) Principles and practice of physical therapy interventions related to functional mobility skills, including transfer training, wheelchair fitting, wheelchair mobility, gait training, and caregiver training. Lecture and laboratory format. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 537 REHAB 538 Integumentary, Edema Management, and Circulatory Screening for PT (2) Principles and practice of physical therapy evaluation and interventions related to wound care, burn care, edema management, circulatory screening, and splinting applications. Lecture and laboratory format. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 538 REHAB 539 Communication Disorders in Rehabilitation Medicine (1) Yorkston Overview of communication disorders secondary to central and peripheral nervous system impairment. Emphasis on facilitating identification of speech/language disorders with discussion of implications for rehabilitation. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 539 REHAB 540 Acute Care Practice in Physical Therapy (3, max. 6) Provides an in-depth analysis of the role of the physical therapist in the acute care setting. Lectures frame care-based problem solving and experiential learning. Consequences of recumbent positioning and reduced activity examined using a systems-based approach. Develop entry-level knowledge for delivery of acute care PT services within a multidisciplinary team. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 540 REHAB 543 Rehabilitation Kinesiology Laboratory (1) Provides instruction and focus on practical experience and clinical problem solving in kinesiology by exploring and developing proficiency in a framework for observation, analysis, and description of human movement on the normal pathological spectrum. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 543 REHAB 544 Functional Anatomy for Rehabilitation of the Extremities (5-) Covers the functions of the musculoskeletal system as applied by professionals in the practice of clinical rehabilitation. Focuses on anatomy and of the upper and lower extremities, including associated peripheral-vascular and peripheral-nervous systems. Intended to enhance functional assessment and to improve diagnosis and treatment through greater understanding of underlying anatomy. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 544 REHAB 545 Functional Anatomy for Rehabilitation of the Spine (-4) Covers functions of the musculoskeletal system as applied by professionals in the practice of clinical rehabilitation. Focuses on the anatomy of the spine, including associated vascular and nervous systems. Enhances functional assessments and the improvement of diagnosis and treatment through greater understanding of underlying anatomy. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 545 REHAB 546 Teaching Practicum in Rehabilitation (1-3, max. 15) Integration of knowledge and skills in teaching through teaching in the classroom or presentation of a minicourse, workshop, or in-service training series. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 546 REHAB 548 Kinesiology (4) Concepts for rehabilitation professionals in Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, and Prosthetics and Orthotics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 548 REHAB 550 Neuropsychology in Rehabilitation (2) J. HOFFMAN Examination and management of patients with brain lesions, as well as an understanding of the consequences of such conditions. Prerequisite: graduate standing in rehabilitation medicine. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 550 REHAB 551 Neurobiology for Rehabilitation (5) In-depth analysis of human neuroanatomical structure and neurophysiological function as a basis for rehabilitation practice. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 551 REHAB 554 Perspectives in Interprofessional Practice (1) Integrates diverse interprofessional perspectives to prepare graduate and professional students in rehabilitation-related fields for effective practice as collaborative team members. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 554 REHAB 555 P-Neuromuscular Electrodiagnosis (2.5) Demonstration of fundamentals of electromyography and peripheral nerve stimulation followed by participation in clinical electrodiagnosis examinations. Develops awareness of knowing when such procedures are indicated for patients and interpreting results rather than developing proficiency in performing these examinations. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kraft View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 555 REHAB 556 Foundations of Rehabilitation Science (3) Overview of rehabilitation science and social constructs of disability emphasizing bio-psycho-social-environmental models of the enabling-disabling process across the lifespan. Lays the philosophical and theoretical foundations for the study of rehabilitation as a science and is designed to promote interdisciplinary thinking. Prerequisite: instructor permission. Instructors: Johnson, Kartin, Yorkston View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 556 REHAB 557 Evidence-Based Rehabilitation (3) Addresses frameworks for evaluating the evidence in rehabilitation science; asking answerable questions, using advanced search strategies; critically appraising literature; understanding the systematic review process; conducting and interpreting meta-analyses; developing evidence-based practice guidelines; communicating the evidence to stakeholders; and translating evidence into rehabilitation practice. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kartin, Yorkston View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 557 REHAB 558 Rehabilitation Research Methods (3) Provides an orientation and critical analysis of current practices in disability and rehabilitation research by appraising methodologies and strategies used to investigate consequences of human function, activity performance, and social participation. Topics include introduction to qualitative and quantitative methodologies with respect to rehabilitation research. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Johnson, Kartin, Yorkston View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 558 REHAB 559 Introduction to Global Rehabilitation (3) Cody L McDonald Explores rehabilitation from a global perspective. Provides framework for students to develop proposals addressing current global rehabiliation issues. Offered: S, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 559 REHAB 560 Defining and Measuring Outcomes in Rehabilitation Research (3) Introduces the importance, methods, and challenges of outcomes research in rehabilitation. Addresses definitions and importance of outcomes research; behaviors measurement, functional abilities, quality of life, and consumer satisfaction; outcomes measurement for diverse populations across lifespan; research outcomes design; and challenges specific to outcomes research. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Amtmann View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 560 REHAB 561 Epidemiological and Health Services Approaches to Rehabilitation Research (3) Introduces the application of principles and methods from the fields of epidemiology and health services to rehabilitation research. Provides an overview of epidemiological research methods applicable to rehabilitation research, health services approaches, ethics, and use of research to inform disability policy. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Ciol, Hoffman View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 561 REHAB 562 Neuroscience in Rehabilitation (3) Develops knowledge related to neural control of movement; movement dysfunction from neurologic pathology; and methodological approaches to investigating neural control of movement. Includes concepts in motor control; motor learning; and neural plasticity relating to movement dysfunction in people with neurologic pathology and to rehabilitation science. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kelly, Yorkston View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 562 REHAB 564 Practice Skills for Occupational Therapy (1, max. 3) Provides an introduction to physical assessments and interventions with a focus on physical management of clients, management of medical and adaptive equipment, splint fabrication, and maintenance of therapist and client safety. The therapeutic skills covered serve as a foundation for more advanced technical and professional competencies in subsequent courses and fieldwork. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 564 REHAB 566 Special Topics in Rehabilitation (1-9, max. 14) Philosophy and concepts in the interdisciplinary rehabilitation of persons with major disabilities, including advanced content in the rehabilitation theory and process of selected categories. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 566 REHAB 567 Practicum in Rehabilitation (1-12, max. 24) Specialized practicum experience in environment providing rehabilitation services. Practicum arrangements and permission by instructor. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 567 REHAB 568 Biophysics as Applied to Physical Medicine (2) Propagation and absorption characteristics of physical forms of energy used for treatment in physical medicine. Physiologic effects basic to prescription of the physical therapy modalities. Prerequisite: resident standing in rehabilitation medicine; others by permission of instructor. Instructors: Esselman View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 568 REHAB 569 Prosthetics and Orthotics for Physical Therapists (2) Introduces the principles and designs of orthoses and prostheses, using a clinical problem-solving approach to determine functional deficits to create joint rehabilitation goals between physical therapy and prosthetics and orthotics in regards to the prosthesis and orthosis. Emphasizes team medicine and collaboration in rehabilitation. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 569 REHAB 570 Foundations of Occupational Therapy (5) Powell An overview of the practice of occupational therapy, emphasizing the role of occupational performance in context, frames of reference, clinical reasoning, and purposeful activity. Introduces the diversity of occupational therapy practice environments through didactic and clinical experiences. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 570 REHAB 572 Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice in Psychosocial Dysfunction I (1-7, max. 7) Fogelberg An overview of bodies of knowledge in psychosocial practice as related to occupational performance. Learning topics include major frames of reference, effects of psychosocial disorders on occupational performance (life activities), and occupational therapy evaluation and intervention skills. Lectures, reading, class discussions, role-playing, problem-based learning, and fieldwork comprise the learning experiences. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 572 REHAB 574 Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice in Physical Disabilities I (6) Provides theoretical bases and clinical practice skills used in evaluation and intervention of occupational performance (life activities). Focus is on individuals with sensorimotor (physical) and/or cognitive impairments. Practical applications of theory occur through lecture, laboratory, and problem-based learning approaches. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 574 REHAB 575 Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice in Physical Disabilities II (5) Powell Provides theoretical bases and clinical practice skills used in evaluation and intervention of occupational performance (life activities). Focus is on individuals with sensorimotor (physical) and/or cognitive impairments. Practical applications of theory occur through lecture, laboratory, and problem-based learning approaches. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 575 REHAB 576 Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice in Pediatrics (1-7, max. 7) Provides knowledge and skills necessary for providing occupational therapy evaluation, intervention, and transition services focused on occupational performance (life activities) for children and teens with disabilities and their families. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 576 REHAB 577 Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice in Geriatrics (5) Powell Occupational therapy evaluation and intervention with older adults. Covers psychology, physiology, and socio-demographics of aging. Emphasis on interaction skills with the elderly and occupational performance (life activities). Laboratory experiences and fieldwork in the practice setting enhance didactic coursework. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 577 REHAB 578 Occupational Therapy Domain and Process I (4) Skills in the analysis, adaptation, and sequencing of therapeutic occupations and activities to support occupational performance through the lifespan. The analysis process covers all aspects of the domain of occupational therapy including areas of occupation, client factors, performance skills, performance patterns, context, and environment. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 578 REHAB 579 Occupational Therapy Domain and Process II (3) Introduces basic principles and skills of effective interpersonal communication in dyadic interactions and in groups. Emphasis on effective listening, interviewing, and principles and concepts of occupational therapy groups. Lectures, readings, class discussions, role playing, and in-class exercises comprise the learning experiences. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 579 REHAB 580 Introduction to Research in Rehabilitation (3) Evaluation of rehabilitation research literature and design of research studies relevant to rehabilitation. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 580 REHAB 581 Application of Measurement Systems (3) Jirikowic Provides basis for critically evaluating and using tests and measurements in occupational therapy evaluation. Focus on reliability, validity, norms, test development process, statistics relevant to tests and measurement, and ethical implications of testing. Critical evaluation of selected standardized test used in occupational therapy. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 581 REHAB 582 Assistive Technology in Rehabilitation (3) T. JIRIKOWIC Overview of the field of assistive technology as it impacts occupational performance in self-care, work, and leisure activities. Covers interface devices, computer applications, environmental controls, augmentative communications, power mobility, seating and positioning systems, and sensory enhancements. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 582 REHAB 583 Exploring Disability (1) Explores multiple aspects of disability including social, mental, physical, and financial factors. Provides skills for working with people with disabilities and exposure to a multidisciplinary team approach to overcoming healthcare barriers. Utilizes interactive didactic with patient participation and introduction to community resources for people with disabilities. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 583 REHAB 585 Leadership and Management in Occupational Therapy (5) T. MROZ Focuses on occupational therapy leadership and management in healthcare delivery systems. Includes theoretical and professional competencies focuses on healthcare access, health policy laws, service delivery settings, reimbursement, regulation, political advocacy. Management topics include leadership, program planning, budgeting, personnel, and outcome measurement. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 585 REHAB 588 Fieldwork II Seminar (1) Supports a successful transition from academic work to the full-time Fieldwork II clinical experiences by reinforcing he integration and application of acquired technical and professional competencies needed for REHAB 594, Fieldwork II. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 588 REHAB 591 Graduate Project (1-4, max. 10) Graduate project focuses on practice, administration, education, policy, research, or other scholarly or creative work. Required of entry-level occupational therapy students. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 591 REHAB 592 Principles of Orthotic Use in Rehabilitation (2) Crane General principles and clinical applications of orthoses in patient management, with exposure to research issues in orthotic design. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 592 REHAB 593 Principles of Prosthetic Use in Rehabilitation (2) Morgenroth General principles of prevention of amputation, prosthetic design, biomechanics, and clinical applications of upper and lower extremity prostheses. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 593 REHAB 594 Clinical Fieldwork in Occupational Therapy (10, max. 30) Rollinger 12-week, full-time fieldwork, delivering occupational therapy services to clients focusing on application of meaningful occupation under direct supervision. Exposure to varied clients across the lifespan and in various settings reflective of current practice. Students must complete a minimum of two 12-week placements. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 594 REHAB 595 Clinical Affiliation in Physical Therapy ([2-10]-, max. 30) Clinical practice of physical therapy techniques under supervision in community-based clinics. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 595 REHAB 596 Electromyography and Clinical Neurophysiology (4) Didactic course covering electromyography and clinical neurophysiology. First part covers basic neurophysiology and second covers electromyography, nerve conduction studies, somatosensory-evoked potentials, residual- and auditory-evoked potentials, single fiber EMG, late response, quantitative analysis, and macro EMG. Prerequisite: resident standing in rehabilitation medicine; others by permission of instructor. Instructors: Kraft View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 596 REHAB 597 Electromyography and Electrodiagnosis Laboratory (1-) Elective work in clinical electromyography and other electrodiagnostic methods. Prerequisite: resident standing in rehabilitation medicine; others by permission of instructor. Instructors: Kraft Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 597 REHAB 598 Electromyography and Electrodiagnosis Laboratory (-1-) Elective work in clinical electromyography and other electrodiagnostic methods. Prerequisite: resident standing in rehabilitation medicine; others by permission of instructor. Instructors: Kraft Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 598 REHAB 599 Electromyography and Electrodiagnosis Laboratory (-1) Elective work in clinical electromyography and other electrodiagnostic methods. Prerequisite: resident standing in rehabilitation medicine; others by permission of instructor. Instructors: Kraft Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 599 REHAB 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 600 REHAB 684 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Boise, ID (8) Students work directly with the physician and as a member of a multidisciplinary rehab team, seeing a variety of patients with neurologic and musculoskeletal diagnoses. Observe procedures such as EMGs, nerve conduction studies, and a variety of peripheral and central injections. Participate in care of injured workers and their return to work. Primarily outpatient experience with some inpatient exposure. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 684 REHAB 685 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Introduction to Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (4) Introduction to care of patients with rehabilitation needs. Students are integrated into the rehabilitation team and participate in direct patient care in an interdisciplinary approach. Students learn the role of the different interdisciplinary members, including that of the physiatrist, and gain a basic understanding of the Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation (PM&R) specialty. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 685 REHAB 686 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Pediatrics - Seattle Children's Hospital - Seattle (8) Structured clinical experience on rehabilitation medicine services in pediatric setting. Differences between acute and chronic medicine, identification of disability problems, and therapeutic techniques for removing disability. School planning, family counseling, community support services included. Inpatient, outpatient, and consultation experience. Recommended for students contemplating pediatrics or rehabilitation. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 686 REHAB 687 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Harborview Medical Center - Seattle (8) Focuses on neuro-rehabilitation and general rehabilitation. Intended for those interested in exploring a career in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation or wishing to gain more experience working with patients with disability. Students primarily work on the inpatient rehabilitation unit. Some exposure to outpatient general rehabilitation and neuro-rehabilitation clinics. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 687 REHAB 688 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - VA Puget Sound Seattle Division, Rehab Care Services (8) Focuses on providing medical and rehabilitative care to inpatients with a variety of diagnoses and functional limitations including, but not limited to, stroke, amputation, multiple sclerosis and motor neuron disease. Structured clinical experience on a general inpatient rehabilitation unit. Opportunities to participate at a variety of outpatient rehabilitation clinics. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 688 REHAB 689 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - VA Puget Sound Seattle Division, Spinal Cord Injury (8) Introduction to diagnosis, management, and rehabilitation of patients with spinal-cord injuries. Interaction with rehabilitation team, psychiatrists, and subspecialists in urology, neurosurgery, and plastic surgery. Performance at subintern level expected. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 689 REHAB 690 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - UW Medical Center - Seattle (8) Four-week clerkship on inpatient PM&R management of patients with disabilities and functional impairments due to disorders such as acquired brain injury, CNS disorders, spinal cord injury, and complex medical conditions. Recommended for careers in family medicine, internal medicine, neurology, geriatrics, orthopedic surgery, neurosurgery, rheumatology, and cardiology. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 690 REHAB 691 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Community Medical Center - Missoula (4/8) Two or four week Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R) clerkship at Community Medical Center in Missoula, Montana. Work in inpatient setting for patients in acute rehab, and see patients in outpatient clinic. Two week rotation for students desiring broad overview of PM&R, seeing variety of patients. Four week rotation for students desiring more exposure to neuromuscular anatomy, physical exam, and neuromuscular disorders. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 691 REHAB 692 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - St. Luke's Rehabilitation Institute - Spokane (8) Students provide medical and rehabilitative care to patients with variety of diagnoses and functional limitations including stroke, amputation, brain injury, motor neuron disease, and spinal cord injury. Rotations July through January are recommended for students seeking Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R) career. February through June rotations recommended for students seeking PM&R exposure. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 692 REHAB 697 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Special Assignment Elective - Outside WWAMI (4/8, max. 24) Special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities at institutions other than the University of Washington located outside the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 697 REHAB 699 Rehabilitation Medicine Clerkship - Special Assignment Elective - WWAMI (4/8, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase or equivalent. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 699 REHAB 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 700 REHAB 800 Doctoral Dissertation in (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 800 REHAB 801 Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone ([1-4]-, max. 12) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: REHAB 801 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022