Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Menu Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House Student Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBT Center Makuu: The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women's Center Student Supports Career Services DACA and Undocumented Student Resources Event Registration First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resources Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Emergency and Opportunity Funding Give to University Life Strategic Priorities University Life Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle University Life Technology Services Join Programming Leadership Philanthropy Diversity and Inclusion Board (DIB) University Advisors Program Order of Omega Resources Contact Information Chapters at Penn Grant Funding Scholarships Finances Housing About OFSL Home We are Penn Greeks! With over 40 organizations strong and 3,000+ members, our community offers a wide range of sororities, fraternities, and co-ed organizations to join. Our Purpose We believe that when we work together, fraternities and sororities have the power to catalyze change and give voice to students. We uphold high standards of integrity and respect, promote inclusion, and provide service to make a difference in the community. Chapters at penn Join An organization 2021-2022 Important Housing Dates Move-in/Move-out Fall 2021 9:00 am | August 25/26: approved Early Move-In: Must apply by July 18th 9:00 am | Friday, August 27 – Monday, August 30, 2021: Fall Move-In begins 12:00 pm | Thursday, December 23, 2021: Chapter Houses fully close for Winter Break (exceptions not permitted) Spring 2022 9:00 am | Saturday, January 8, 2022: Spring Move-In begins (exceptions not permitted) 12:00 pm | Wednesday, May 11, 2022: May Move-Out all non-graduating residents 12:00 pm | Tuesday, May 17, 2022: Houses Fully Closed and all residents moved-out Planning for the Semester Please continue to refer to official University communications on COVID updates. COVID Updates Our Pillars Vanguard We are the forward-thinking leaders of the fraternity and sorority community at Penn, and we’re here to reinvent the meaning of Greek. Our maverick approach to a centuries-old tradition heralds a new age of progressive thought– and action– on campus. Foundation The first Greek organization at Penn was established in 1849. Sororities and fraternities everywhere are steeped in the rituals from their origins, the architecture for their traditions and present-day structure . Our organizations provide a foundation of transformational leadership that today centers on holistic education and experiential learning. Compass We’re guided from foundation to the forefront by our values and ethics. When we take the helm, we aim our sights high and map out our goals. We navigate the challenges that cross our path, and if we don’t make it to our destination, we take our bearings, and choose a new direction. Relationships From the start, we were designed to forge strong and authentic relationships. Today those connections span beyond our brothers and sisters, to the campus community to provide a supportive network of resources. The importance we place on these relationships, and the accessible, inclusive spaces those partnerships create, are what make us grow– together. Impact We are a community with a cause, motivating our members to take the reins and implement change through service and philanthropy. Each year we welcome a new class of students to our Greek community, where we encourage them to harness their energy and passion, and provide them with the support system they need to positively influence the campus culture and local community. Scholarships housing Chapter dues Statement of Philosophy Our philosophy for an optimal fraternal experience is through an active, four-way partnership with: each chapter and its leadership; alumni/ae members through advisory boards and house corporations; inter/national headquarters; the University of Pennsylvania, through collaboration with its many offices and resources This network is essential in providing maximum support to the undergraduate chapter members and leaders, and provides a strong, consistent message for all involved. Hazing Education HUB@Penn Bias Reporting The University of Pennsylvania is an inclusive community in which we learn from the research, ideas, and experiences of other people on campus and around the world. We value open expression and the learning that comes from civil and rigorous debate. We also value and respect the dignity and worth of all members of our community. At times individuals or groups may believe they have experienced discrimination or bias or were negatively impacted by the actions of another member of the Penn community. BIAS REPORTING Facebook Instagram Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset