Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home News News Student Experience Best Advice for Graduates? Here’s What Our Community Had to Say. As the Class of 2022 graduates and the Class of 2020 celebrates their commencement on-campus, we asked the university secretary, a chaplain, barber and others for their words of wisdom. Student Experience Celebrating the Class of 2020 Student Experience How 4 Graduate Students Turned Their Challenges into Successes Student Experience After ‘Catching’ 2,300 Babies, Future Midwives’ Hands Are Blessed in Annual Tradition The Spirit of Georgetown Living Our Values 4 Hoyas’ Zigzag Journey of Living the Spirit of Georgetown A Rabbi and a Lawyer Talk Tension, Power and Faith That Does Justice Two faculty members describe how their faith has guided them to navigate different worlds, reconcile seemingly opposing ideas in their professions and scholarship and discern the best path toward justice. Award-Winning Composer Honors 272 Enslaved People Through Hip Hop and Liturgical Work Georgetown Professor Carlos Simon’s new work honors the lives of enslaved men, women and children. In this mini documentary, he invites viewers into his musical exploration and process. Filter News Toggle Filter Form Filter News By Keyword By Category All Alumni Discovery & Impact Events Spirit of Georgetown Student Experience University News Starting from Apply Filters Clear Filters Filtered Results University News The Class of 2020 Celebrates a Milestone Two Years in the Making: Commencement On May 28, more than 2,000 alumni from the Class of 2020 returned to the Hilltop to celebrate their Commencement — an event postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. May 29, 2022 Student Experience School of Business Gifts NFT Coin to Class of 2020 Undergraduate Alumni Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business will gift a non-fungible token (NFT) coin to the Class of 2020 during their May 28 commencement reception to recognize their resiliency and strength. May 27, 2022 Student Experience Best Advice for Graduates? Here’s What Our Community Had to Say. As the Class of 2022 graduates and the Class of 2020 celebrates their commencement on-campus, we asked the university secretary, a chaplain, barber and others for their words of wisdom. May 27, 2022 University News Georgetown Forms 5-Year Partnership with the Southern University System Georgetown and the Southern University System, the only historically Black university system in the U.S., will partner on interdisciplinary programming, research and training over the next five years. May 26, 2022 Student Experience Class of 2020 Graduates: Where Are They Now? As the Class of 2020 returns to the Hilltop for their Commencement, meet three alumni who have been advocating in health care, law and finance since their graduation. May 26, 2022 Student Experience Celebrating the Class of 2020 Join us in welcoming the Class of 2020 back to the Hilltop with these videos from their loved ones, stories about their achievements and downloadable decorations to celebrate their Commencement. May 25, 2022 Student Experience After ‘Catching’ 2,300 Babies, Future Midwives’ Hands Are Blessed in Annual Tradition School of Nursing & Health Studies graduates pursuing careers in midwifery and women’s health advanced nursing practice gathered for a spiritual ceremony that recognizes the importance of the healing touch. May 24, 2022 University News A Resilient Class of 2022 Graduates from Georgetown From May 19-22, Georgetown celebrated the Class of 2022’s Commencement — the first graduation back on the Hilltop in three years. May 23, 2022 Student Experience After Year of Dog Sled Training, Business Student Chases New Path in Alaska In 2020, Colton Scrudder (B’22) spent a year training for the Iditarod race. After graduating from Georgetown, he will return to Alaska to apply his global business degree. May 20, 2022 Student Experience Student in Madeleine Albright’s Last Class Carries on Legacy of Public Service After being mentored by the late Madeleine Albright and the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, Luka Ignac is graduating from SFS with his sights set on public service. May 20, 2022 Load More Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog