Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Award-winning cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir joins CCM’s faculty Thorsteinsdóttir enjoys a varied career as a performer, collaborator and teaching artist By Curt Whitacre Email CurtEmail Curt 513-556-2683 May 27, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Icelandic cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Praised by the Los Angeles Times for the "emotional intensity" of her performances, Thorsteinsdóttir’s appointment as Assistant Professor of Cello begins on Aug. 15, 2022. CCM faculty member Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir. Thorsteinsdóttir enjoys a varied career as a performer, collaborator and teaching artist. She has appeared as soloist with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, NDR Elbphilharmonie Orchester, BBC Symphony Orchestra, Seattle Symphony, Toronto Symphony Orchestra and Iceland Symphony, among others, and her recital and chamber music performances have taken her across the US, Europe and Asia. Thorsteinsdóttir has performed in many of the world’s prestigious venues including Carnegie Hall, Suntory Hall, Elbphilharmonie, Barbican Center and Disney Hall. Her recent releases include Vernacular, a solo album of Icelandic music for cello, and the award-winning cello concerto Quake, which was written for her by Páll Ragnar Pálsson and performed with the Iceland Symphony under the direction of conductor Daníel Bjarnason. Released on the Sono Luminus label, Quake was nominated for a 2021 Grammy. Her recording of the Bach Cello Suites is due out in early 2023. In addition to collaborating with Daníel Bjarnason on his award-winning composition Bow to String, Thorsteinsdóttir enjoys working with composers of our time such as Páll Ragnar Pálsson, Þuríður Jónsdóttir, Halldór Smárason and Melia Watras. She has also given the US premiere of Betsy Jolas’ Wanderlied and the Hong Kong premiere of Sofia Gubaidulina’s Canticle of the Sun for cello, two percussionists and choir. An avid chamber musician, she has collaborated in performance with Itzhak Perlman, Mitsuko Uchida, Richard Goode and members of the Emerson, Guarneri and Cavani Quartets. She has also participated in numerous chamber music festivals, including Prussia Cove and Marlboro, with whom she has toured. Formerly Artist-in-Residence at Green Music Center’s Weill Hall in Sonoma as well as cellist of the Manhattan Piano Trio, she is currently cellist and founding member of Decoda, the Affiliate Ensemble of Carnegie Hall. Born in Reykjavik, Iceland, Thorsteinsdóttir has garnered numerous prizes in international competitions, including the Naumburg Competition in New York and the Antonio Janigro Competition in Zagreb, Croatia. She received a Bachelor of Music degree from the Cleveland Institute of Music, a Master of Music degree from the Juilliard School and a Doctor of Musical Arts degree from SUNY Stony Brook. Her principal teachers include Richard Aaron, Tanya L. Carey, Colin Carr and Joel Krosnick. Thorsteinsdóttir is an alum of Ensemble Connect — a program of Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Institute in partnership with the New York City Department of Education — which performs chamber music at Carnegie Hall and brings classical music to students in the New York City Public Schools. "Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir is an award-winning performer and an equally accomplished educator," said Romanstein. "She will be a wonderful addition to CCM's faculty and Cincinnati's arts community. I would like to thank the members of our search committee — which was co-chaired by Rachel Calin and Won-Bin Yim, and also included James Bunte, Amit Even-Tov, Aik Khai Pung and Sandra Rivers — for their excellent work." Learn more about Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir Learn more about the study of cello at CCM Featured image at top: New CCM faculty member Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir. Additional Contacts Rebecca Butts | Assistant Public Information Officer | UC College-Conservatory of Music buttsrl@ucmail.uc.edu | 513-556-2675 Tags College-Conservatory of Music Faculty Staff Violoncello Strings Arts & Culture Related Stories Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top