Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Search Jobs Internal Applicant External Candidate Gateway (Screen reader mode) External Applicant Faculty Positions Student Workers TalentSource Spousal/Partner Program Supporting our Military Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Search Jobs Internal Applicant External Candidate Gateway (Screen reader mode) External Applicant Faculty Positions Student Workers TalentSource Spousal/Partner Program Supporting our Military HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook play pause Supporting our Military Our mission is to support, recognize, and advocate for military members and veterans in order to build a stronger workforce at Clemson University. Learn More Scroll Welcome "Clemson University is dedicated to supporting military members and veterans, who have given so much to serve our country. I am grateful to those who choose to work at Clemson during or after their military service, and I believe that they deserve the best that we have to offer. At Clemson, we are committed to doing everything we can to support our military and veteran employees." ~ President James P. Clements, Ph.D. For more information on how Clemson works with our Active Military and Veterans: Contact Us Are you ready for your next Mission? As of January 2021, Clemson University is excited to offer Veteran Preference for qualifying veterans who submit a new application to full-time, regular positions. For questions about this policy, please contact us. Contact Us Check out our opportunities today! Staff Job Board Faculty Job Board Benefits Military & Veteran specific benefits are for employees that self-identify. You do not have to self- ID for general employee benefits. *Possibility for the Employee and Dependents to stay on Medical Coverage while on Military Duty *Preferred employment for veteran spouses *Up to 15 days of full pay while on Military Duty Athletic Ticket Discounts *Six credit hours of free classes per semester ETAP Program (All University employees eligible after a year of employment) *Discounted meal plan option for campus dining *10% off employee and added family memberships to the Swann Fitness Center *Military & Veteran employees who are enrolled in pre-tax payroll deduction for parking receive 10% off employee parking decals *Some positions, including contingent workers, may not be eligible. To self-identify as a veteran (PDF), please do so in your HR Self Service account. To self-identify as active military, please email hrjob@clemson.edu. **Under 18 U.S. Code 912, anyone who falsely claims to represent the U.S. military could be fined and face up to three years in prison. Hear it from one of your own PO1 | Navy My favorite thing about working here is the comradery that I have with other veterans in my department. - Lori Brierre Procurement Director, Procurement and Business Services Colonel | USAF My Clemson family continues to “Keep the Traditions Alive” so that our military history is known and recognized. - Sandy Edge Director, College Advising Center & Business Sr. Lecturer Staff Sergeant | Army Clemson University was a natural fit for me. I’m proud I’ve been able to use my skills learned as an Army journalist to bring a lot of deserved recognition to Clemson’s military heritage. - Kenneth Scar Media Relations Specialist Staff Sergeant | USAF I love getting to be a part of a diverse team, learning about the amazing work that my colleagues do and what they need, and bringing people together to solve problems and coordinate plans that all work together for the greater good. - Sarah Custer Emergency Management Director CU Veterans in the News G.I. Jobs March 2021 Magazine (Page 31) G.I. Jobs December 2020 Magazine - 2021 Military Friendly Employers Clemson University Scroll of Honor - Names and Stories Decipher Magazine: Stars & Stripes (Page 52, Decipher Page 50) Clemson World: D-Day 75th Anniversary Colonel Ben Skardon – Clemson Ring Story Colonel Ben Skardon – American Survivor Military Skills Translator Applicants – Are you having trouble translating your military experience to your civilian resume? Hiring Managers – Are you struggling to understand how an applicant’s military experience fits your role? O*NET has a guide to help translate military experience into easy-to-understand job responsibilities and competencies for the civilian workforce. We encourage you to use the O*NET Military Crosswalk to make a connection between the two! O*NET Military Crosswalk Resources Local Vet Resources: Upstate Warrior Solution Anderson County, SC VA Anderson, SC VA Clinic Greenville County, SC VA Greenville, SC VA Clinic Clemson University Resources: Clemson Veterans Commission Clemson Corps Military & Veteran Engagement Center Student Veteran Association Support Clemson Veterans ESGR Statement of Support CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top