Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Medieval Studies Events Medieval Studies Events MEDIEVAL CIRCLE LECTURES Thursday, March 17, 2022, 5:30 pm - Emily Steiner (University of Pennsylvania, former Brown University MS concentrator!) will give a talk on “The Jewish Heritage Traveler and the Christian Middle Ages.” Pembroke Hall, 305. Emily Steiner is Professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania. She received her BA from Brown University and her PhD from Yale University. She is the author of Documentary Culture and the Making of Medieval English Literature and Reading Piers Plowman. She has also co-edited The Letter of the Law: Legal Practice and Literary Production in Medieval England, with Candace Barrington; Taxonomies of Knowledge: Information and Order in Medieval Manuscripts, with Lynn Ransom; and The Cambridge History of History Writing: England and Britain, 500-1500 with Jennifer Jahner and Elizabeth Tyler. Her recent book John Trevisa's Information Age: Knowledge and the Pursuit of Literature, c. 1400 came out in 2021. She is the Director of the International Piers Plowman Society. Brown University abides by public health guidance and health and safety protocols to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals). Thursday, April 7, 2022, 5:30 pm - Adam Franklin-Lyons (Emerson College), “Studying Pre-Modern Famine as a Social Disaster.” Pembroke Hall, 305. Dr. Adam Franklin-Lyons is interested in almost anything Medieval. He first worked in archives in Catalonia and Valencia investigating famines in the Western Mediterranean. A monograph based on that work is under contract with Pennsylvania State University Press. Currently, he participates in the Travelers Lab at Wesleyan University. The Lab uses computer-based analysis such as GIS to study patterns of mobility and communication. The Lab also invites undergraduates to participate directly in the research of the Lab. As part of this project, Dr. Franklin-Lyons led a group of Marlboro faculty members funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities in developing an undergraduate curriculum combining data science and humanities methods of research in the classroom and in projects addressing social questions in the local community. Brown University abides by public health guidance and health and safety protocols to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals). MEDIEVAL AND EARLY MODERN HISTORY SEMINAR (with Department of History) AROUND BROWN UConn Events Medieval Studies events at Harvard Home About People Undergraduate Concentration Courses Events Previous Years Events Graduate Student Activities Resources Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with Medieval Studies Program in Medieval Studies/Annmary Brown Memorial Brown University Box 1905 21 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1994 Fax 401-863-2470 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory