Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Epidemiology Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Epidemiology Producing world-class science with real-world impact and training the next generation of leaders in research and practice. Producing epidemiologic evidence to launch actions that make communities safer and healthier Discovering the basic science of disease, human health, and public health practice Training and mentoring tomorrow’s leaders Conducting fieldwork to understand and prevent disease in the US and countries around the world Who We Are Programs Research News & Events Faculty Contact Us Our Work In The News Tweets by @cuepidemiology What We Do Dynamic Research Units in chronic disease, environmental, infectious disease, psychiatric, neurologic, social & spatial, substance use, and violence & injury epidemiology, as well as causal inference and methods. Read our Anti-Racist Values Statement Our Scientists Over 150 Faculty with a dozen research centers and labs. Congrats to our 2019-2023 Intervention-and-Implementation Science Awardees! We are looking for new faculty- see our recruitment ad to apply. Our Trainees A leader in training with over 400 students and fellows from across the United States and around the world. Why Choose Columbia Epidemiology? Support Our Work Support our work to build the future of epidemiology and change lives around the world. Global Epidemiology Our epidemiologists teach, conduct research, and do fieldwork alongside colleagues in more than 60 countries, including the Columbia Global Centers. Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers