Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Benefits and Discounts Benefits and Discounts Expand all Collapse all Exclusive Video Content CAA YouTube Channel Alumni have access to hundreds of interviews, panels, keynotes, conferences, and more through the CAA YouTube channel. Hear from Supreme Court Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg '59LAW, who sat down with CNN's Poppy Harlow '05CC during the She Opened the Door women's conference in February 2018. Learn how to perfect your pitch from the expert alumni members of the Columbia Career Coaches Network. Get inspired by the latest class of Columbia Alumni Medalists, honored by the CAA for their years of dedication to the University. ...and more! Start watching. Columbia at Home The CAA’s weekly Columbia at Home virtual series features Columbians speaking on informative and engaging topics during this difficult time. Diverse topics span the latest on the COVID-19 crisis, health and wellness, entertainment, and more. See the archive of events here The Columbia Way The Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) hosted a series of specialized online events for Ne Grads, covering everyday challenges, professional skill-building, navigating Columbia’s alumni services, and more. See the archived videos from this series Expand all Collapse all Exclusive Discounts & Benefits Insurance You may have graduated, but the CAA has got you covered. LONG-TERM CARE BENEFIT: ACSIA Partners LLC is now available to provide personalized, professional counseling regarding Long-Term Care Planning and Funding to all Alums and their family members. Planning for Long-Term Care before a crisis occurs is your best insurance of all. Various forms of high-quality, competitive coverage are available from a number of leading insurers. Family Caregivers can also get help online. Request an appointment with a licensed ACSIA Counselor or learn more about Long-Term Care virtually on your own here. You may also request a Counselor call you back by leaving a message at 877-743-7188. Nationwide® provides affordable pet health coverage from preventive care to significant medical incidents for all kinds of pets. Columbia Alumni are eligible for preferred pricing, which makes this peace-of-mind protection even more affordable. For more information, including quotes on birds and exotic pets, call 877-738-7874. The CAA Pharmacy Savings Program card saves up to 87% on prescription medications at over 67,000 pharmacies. This free program even works on pet medications that are human equivalent. Alumni, family, and friends can all use this great benefit. Just download, text, email, or print your free card today. Cards are also available at the Alumni office. The CAA also offers opportunities for life insurance. Learn more about group term life insurance and 10-year level premium group term life insurance, underwritten by New York Life Insurance. Short-term medical insurance (STM) insurance provides limited-benefit, temporary coverage for individuals and families during times of transition (for example, recent graduates who are in between jobs, or waiting for more comprehensive coverage to become effective). STM can help offset health care expenses resulting from an unexpected, serious illness or injury. With STM policies, healthy applicants can apply all year round and secure coverage that can kick in as early as the next day. Keep in mind that STM insurance is not ACA-qualifying minimum essential coverage and includes several limitations and exclusions. Most plans do not cover expenses for pre-existing conditions. STM availability varies by state and is not available in all states. Enter your zip code here, along with the other required information, to get a quote and compare benefit plan options, premiums, and out-of-pocket costs. Health Discount Program, from Careington and IHC Specialty Benefits, Inc., provides access to virtual healthcare visits and discounts on prescription drugs, healthcare specialists, and more, helping you save money on costs and services that may not be covered by your traditional health insurance. Choose from two affordable plan options: Wellness Discount Plan and Health and Wellness Discount Plan. The Health Discount Program is available in most states. Enter your zip code here, along with the other required information, to shop and compare discount plan options and monthly costs. Credit Card APPLY NOW This credit card program is issued and administered by Bank of America, N.A. ©2021 Bank of America Corporation. Shopping Get an alumni discount on computers and other technology at Connection technology products. Shop for books at Columbia University Press and use the promo code Alum for a 20% discount. Visit the CAA Shop and browse the unique collection of Columbia Alumni gifts and apparel. Lodging Alumni and guests have access to on-campus accommodations and guest rooms at International House and Teachers College and off-campus at the Columbia University Club of New York. Alumni also receive an average of 26% off hotel rates worldwide through Hotel Engine. The University's Office of Off-Campus Housing Assistance can also assist alumni with finding lodging. Car Rentals Through Rental Perks, alumni can save up to 25% off base rates at several car rental companies. AVIS Visit this link or call 800-331-1212 and use discount code AWD#: D134100. BUDGET Visit this link or call 800-455-2848 and use discount code BCD#: Z408900. HERTZ Visit this link or call 800-654-2210 and use discount code CDP#: 1742729. Expand all Collapse all Learning and Cultural Enrichment Alumni Bookshelf Browse books written by fellow alumni on a variety of subjects. CAA Arts Access Your Columbia diploma is your ticket to CAA Arts Access: a free, VIP membership to explore the arts with your alumni community. CAA Travel Study Program Continue your Columbia education through new intellectual, cultural, and geographical horizons, and combine learning and pleasure through trips across the globe. Columbia Libraries Columbia Libraries offer lifelong reading and borrowing privileges, as well as access to online databases. See the top five things alumni should know about what's available at the libraries, alumni access, borrowing privileges, and more. Columbia Magazine Alumni receive a free subscription to Columbia Magazine, founded in 1975 and published quarterly by the University’s Office of Alumni and Development. Make sure your address is up to date so we can send you the latest copy...free! You can check and update the address we have for you in the Online Alumni Community Lifelong Learning Intellectual curiosity never stops for a mind shaped by a Columbia education. Alumni get exclusive access to courses, podcasts, seminars, and other online learning opportunities. The Columbia School of Professional Studies offers general course auditing and a program for Lifelong Learners. Virtual Alumni Book Club The first-ever Columbia University-wide book club connects you with fellow alumni for stimulating online discussions of topical books related to social justice, diversity, social change, and more. Virtual Alumni Wine Cellar Peruse the Columbia Alumni Wine Industry Network's (WIN) virtual Alumni Wine Cellar to learn about all of the alumni who are making and producing wine across the globe. Expand all Collapse all Columbia University Services and Perks Transcripts Request a free transcript from the Office of the Registrar. Columbia Facilities Located at 622 West 113th Street, the Columbia Alumni Center is open six days a week and alumni are welcome to stop by and catch up on University news, use free Wi-Fi, or have a cup of coffee. St. Paul’s Chapel on Columbia’s Morningside campus serves as a venue for hundreds of religious and campus events each year. Alumni are eligible for discounts of up to 60 percent at Dodge Fitness Center. Membership includes access to the pool, fitness center, functional fitness room, squash courts, and eligibility for group fitness classes and personal training. Faculty House, on 116th Street and Morningside Drive, offers affiliate rates for alumni booking receptions, meetings, luncheons, or seated dinners. Faculty House’s “Get Wed” packages start at just $165 per guest. Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close