You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul University DePaul Shortcuts DePaul University Recent About Academics Admission & Aid Student Life Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Rankings Campuses Chicago Events Mission President Administration Distinctions History & Timeline Accreditation & Licensure Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Degrees Continuing Education Career Success Academic Catalog Colleges & Schools Research Corporate Education Academic Affairs Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Immunization Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply Employment at DePaul Main Content DePaul University is one of the largest Catholic universities in the nation with over 22,000 students enrolled in more than 300 undergraduate majors and graduate programs. DePaul combines a strong academic foundation with real-world experience. Our main campuses are located in two legendary Chicago neighborhoods. The Loop Campus is steps away from world-class culture, art, sports, entertainment and dining. The Lincoln Park Campus is nestled in the heart of an iconic Chicago neighborhood full of history and atmosphere, just blocks away from the parks and beaches that line the shores of beautiful Lake Michigan. At DePaul, we believe that education is a benefit for the public good. DePaul employees help to provide access to a great education for a diverse student population. In addition to contributing to this meaningful work, qualified faculty and staff receive competitive pay, great benefits, tuition waivers, and generous time off. Discover all of the reasons to become a part of the DePaul community. DePaul offers a range of employment opportunities in the Loop and Lincoln Park campuses. Join our talented workforce and help provide an extraordinary educational experience to future generations! Never stop learning Tuition waivers are available for qualified faculty and staff members. Here, we encourage lifelong learning. Balance work and life The university strives to help its employees find balance between work and their lives away from work. Invest in your future The university’s 403(b) program allows you to save and receive a generous match. When you save for retirement, DePaul adds to your savings. Health and wellness DePaul University offers its employees the choice of three medical plans, as well as wellness programs, onsite fitness centers and fitness club discounts. Search for: Faculty Jobs Staff Positions Student Employment Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer DePaul University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer with a strong commitment to hiring for our mission and diversifying our faculty and staff. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion (except where religion is a bona fide occupational qualification for the job), national origin, sex, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, protected veteran status or any other factor protected by law. Accommodations Qualified individuals with disabilities who wish to apply for employment at DePaul may request a Reasonable Accommodation for assistance with the application process by contacting staffing@depaul.edu or by calling 312-362-6855. Title IX – Contact Information Federal Title IX policy requires that all colleges and universities make known the contact information for the person responsible for coordinating its efforts to comply with Title IX responsibilities. At DePaul University, the Title IX Coordinator is Kathryn Statz. Her office is located in Lincoln Park on the 3rd floor of the Student Center, 2250 N. Sheffield Avenue. She can be reached at 312-362-8970, or titleixcoordinator@depaul.edu. Safety & Security Information – Clery Act Each year, DePaul University’s Safety & Security Information Report and Fire Safety Report is released. The report includes statistics about crimes that occurred on campus and public property immediately adjacent to campus. The report includes institutional policies concerning campus security, sexual assault and other matters. It also includes fire statistics, fire safety practices and standards of the institution. A copy of this report can be obtained by contacting the Crime Prevention Office at 773-325-7775 or by visiting the DePaul Public Safety website. DePaul University Apply Request Info Visit Campus Directory 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 Library Athletics Careers Events facebooktwitterinstagram 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Employment at DePaul