COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Counseling Services Information Section Menu Counseling and Prevention Services Home Community Referrals Counseling Services information Emergency information Group Therapy Services How to make a referral Free Mental Health Screenings Presentation/Table Request Resources Self Help Resources Suicide Prevention and Awareness WCPIP Internship information Counseling and Prevention Services Staff Athletics Prevention Athletics Prevention Ambassadors Profiles Make A Referral Make A Referral Community Resources Counseling Services Counseling offers appointments for individual, couple's, and group therapy to enrolled students in the WSU community. No matter where you're at in life or what hardships you face, CAPS is here to help. To set an appointment, walk into the Student Wellness Center or call us at 316-978-4SWC (4792) and ask to meet with a counselor. We offer in-person and telehealth appointments. Typical problems seen in the center are: Difficulties with family/friends Academic stress Issues with self-esteem/self-doubt Anxiety/Stress Eating disorders/body image struggles General depression/unhappiness Negative habits Anger management Time management Alcohol and drug concerns Learning disabilities and attention problems CAPS office visits are just $10.00 a session. However, no student will be turned away for inability to pay. Please talk with your therapist to see if you qualify for a reduced rate. There is no cost for group therapy, crisis therapy, and support group sessions. Privacy Policy Group Therapy The staff at Counseling and Prevention Services offers an assortment of group therapy sessions to the WSU community. Contact Counseling and Prevention Services for group offerings at the beginning of each semester. Learn more about group therapy Psychiatric Consultation Counseling and Prevention Services partners with Student Health Services and a psychiatric medical doctor to provide psychotropic medication services to enrolled students. The current standard of care for mental health conditions includes medication management and therapy. Therefore, a medication consultation is coordinated through the individual counselor and reserved only for clients engaged in counseling. Psychological Assessments Our counseling staff administers and interprets a wide range of assessment instruments. Interest, ability, values, and personality may be formally assessed in support of psychological and/or career counseling. Learn more about psychological assessments Crisis information If you are afraid you will not be able to avoid hurting yourself or someone else, get help immediately. We have provided a list of resources and guidelines for dealing with psychological or emotional crises - information that can keep you and others safe in emergency situations. Learn more about crisis services and emergencies For more information, contact: Annette Santiago, Senior Administrative Assistant Student Wellness Center 316-378-4SWC (4792) Email : annette.santiago@wichita.edu Counseling and Prevention Services Community Resources There are local agencies for individuals who are not students, faculty, or staff at WSU, or for those seeking services not offered by CAPS. Make A Referral Testing is available at Counseling and Prevention Services in addition to counseling, consultation, and crisis services. Learn more about emergency and non-emergency referrals. Resources Learn more from other resources. Self- Help and Mental Health Screenings Concerned that someone might be drinking too much, or how they are coping with stress, acting towards others, or managing food? Take one of our online self-assessment screenings. Contact Us Student Wellness Center 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 counselingcenter@wichita.edu 316-978-4SWC Fax: 316-978-3216 facebook twitter instagram 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©