Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Communication Management MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Communication Management MS Apply Request More Info Communication Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Master of Science in Communication Management Explore the many facets of communication principles, practices and strategies in an ever-changing workplace with the Master of Science in Communication Management in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple. This 31-credit online program prepares students to create effective communication campaigns and handle conflict and crisis management in a variety of industries and workspaces. Designed for entry- and mid-level professionals, the Communication Management master’s program’s curriculum focuses on key areas such as audience analysis, communication strategies for emerging media, organizational communication, and research and data synthesis. Through the completely virtual nature of the program, students are able to learn through a combination of webinar and teleseminar courses, online interactions with faculty, and other resources accessible to them at their convenience. Additionally, the online format gives international students an opportunity to participate in the Communication Management MS program from their home countries. Classes & Curriculum Classes for the Master of Science in Communication Management are held entirely online. Although designed for full-time students to complete in one year, part-time students can take up to four years to complete. The 31-credit program includes 12 credits of required core coursework, 18 credits in additional courses and a final capstone project. Some of the major courses include Cross-Cultural Leadership, Leading Diverse Teams and Storytelling Through Innovation. See more about the program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Communication for Development and Social Change MS Conflict and Communication MS Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Abbe Depretis, program director, is the academic advisor for this program. Email: abbe.depretis@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6071 Program Contact For more information about the Master of Science in Communication Management, please contact Kaitlin Fitzsimmons Pierce, associate director of the graduate office. Email: kaitlin.pierce@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8560 Quaiser Abdullah, program director. Email: quaiser@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6808 Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Communication Management MS coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other like-minded students, gain invaluable knowledge and skills, and become involved with a community that helps you bring your personal and professional goals to fruition. The Media and Communication Graduate Student Association is an example of a club that can help you excel as a Communication Management student. This club represents and advocates for the collective interests of media and communication graduate students in matters of policy and action, while building community among other Klein graduate students. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Klein students. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-CMOL-MS Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Communication Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info