Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Office of the Dean for Research Supporting the Research Enterprise We support Princeton’s research endeavors by administering research funding, building relationships with corporations and foundations, licensing University inventions, ensuring research integrity, and overseeing human and animal research. Research Resources and Support Services Office of the Dean for Research . We support Princeton’s mission to be one of the world's leading research universities by uniting people, resources and opportunities for the creation, preservation and transmission of knowledge. In addition to overseeing the five departments shown here, our office is responsible for formulating and implementing policies on sponsored research. Learn More Research and Project Administration . We help researchers navigate the financial and regulatory requirements associated with the funding of projects. The Office of Research and Project Administration reviews proposal submissions, manages grants and awards, and provides other services related to research projects and funding. Learn More Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations . Partnerships with industry and philanthropic organizations accelerate innovation and support the educational, scientific and scholarly mission of the University. Corporate Engagement and Foundation Relations helps develop relationships between our researchers and these organizations to promote advances in the sciences, engineering, social sciences, arts and humanities. Learn More Technology Licensing . Princeton innovations change the world. Our research on life-saving cancer drugs, energy-efficient lighting and chemicals for printed electronics exemplifies work that benefits society. The Office of Technology Licensing helps transfer discoveries such as these to the marketplace in a manner consistent with Princeton's emphasis on preeminent research, education and dedication to public service. Learn More Research Integrity and Assurance . We provide guidance, oversight and educational tools to the research community to ensure that research is conducted responsibly and with integrity. Research Integrity and Assurance helps researchers comply with policies and regulations aimed at ensuring the ethical conduct of research. Learn More Laboratory Animal Resources . We provide high-quality, humane care for all animals used for instruction, research and testing. Laboratory Animal Resources works with researchers at Princeton to ensure veterinary and animal care that meets or exceeds established standards for the treatment of animals in research. Learn More Explore Research at Princeton Research happens at Princeton every day. Learn more about our discoveries and breakthroughs through these research events and publications. Discovery Magazine Celebrate Princeton Invention Research at Princeton Blog Princeton Research Day Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice