By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Brand Email Formatting More from this Section Sample Signatures Formatting your Email Signature Paste the starter template into Outlook’s Signature settings and modify the content to reflect your personal information. Creating a Signature in Outlook Open a new email message. On the Message menu bar above the editor, select "Signature > Edit Signatures." Under Signature name , choose the "+" to create a new signature, and in the New Signature dialog box type a name for the signature. Paste the signature template found on the Email Standards page into the editor, and modify the information. When the signature is ready to save, click to exit the signature editor and a prompt so save will pop up. Click "Save." Formatting an Email Signature in Outlook To specify the font and size , select the text you want to change and go to “Format > Font” from the menubar or adjust the font and size in the menu bar above the editor. To plug in the RGB color formulas, select the text you want to change and click the font color drop-down in the menu bar above the editor. Click on “More Colors,” then “RGB Sliders” from the options dropdown. Enter the red, green, and blue values in the fields. For example, the correct orange is red: 215, green: 65, and blue: 0. To create a hyperlink , select the text you want to link and click the "Link" icon from the from the menu bar above the editor. Modern email clients add hyperlinks to URLs and email addresses automatically. It is not necessary to add these links manually. Signature Type Specifications View Sample Signatures for examples of how to apply these styles. Element Font Size (Microsoft Outlook) Size (Outlook Web App) Size (Apple Mail) Color Element Signature Text Font Verdana Regular Size (Microsoft Outlook) 10pt Size (Outlook Web App) 10pt Size (Apple Mail) 14px Color RGB 0/14/84 Element Name Font Verdana Bold Size (Microsoft Outlook) 11pt Size (Outlook Web App) 11pt Size (Apple Mail) 15px Color RGB 215/65/0 Element T / M / F Font Verdana Bold Size (Microsoft Outlook) 10pt Size (Outlook Web App) 10pt Size (Apple Mail) 14px Color RGB 0/14/84 Element Syracuse University Font Georgia Size (Microsoft Outlook) 14pt Size (Outlook Web App) 14pt Size (Apple Mail) 19px Color RGB 215/65/0 Element (Pronouns: she/her/hers) Font Verdana Bold Size (Microsoft Outlook) 10pt Size (Outlook Web App) 10pt Size (Apple Mail) 14px Color RGB 0/14/84 Element -- Persistent Messaging Font Verdana Regular Size (Microsoft Outlook) 10pt Size (Outlook Web App) 10pt Size (Apple Mail) 14px Color RGB 215/65/0 Element Social Media Platform @socialhandle Font Verdana Bold Verdana Regular Size (Microsoft Outlook) 10pt Size (Outlook Web App) 10pt Size (Apple Mail) 14px Color RGB 0/14/84 For additional help changing your email signature, visit Outlook help . Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy