Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Blog Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Resources Advising Advising Resource CenterDegree RequirementsDegree Planning ToolsCommon Minors for Biology MajorsFrequency of Course OfferingsGrade Policy/Course Repeat PolicyPetition to repeat a course a second timeNewsContact Us Undergraduate Research Advanced Placement Scholarships Release for letter of recommendation Alumni UofM Undergraduate Catalog Take Action DEI Resources Seminar Schedule Research and Program Facilities Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Biological Sciences Undergraduate Information Undergraduate Research in Biological Sciences Biological Sciences Undergraduate Research Faculty encourage students to pursue research as part of their undergraduate education. Many students earn academic credit for the research that they do with Biology faculty. The department has two undergraduate courses (BIOL 4000 and BIOL 4001) that allow students to become involved in biologically related research with a faculty mentor. Students develop an understanding of the scientific method and receive a realistic view of research. Students who wish to become involved in research should contact a suitable faculty sponsor prior to meeting with their advisor. More detailed information about faculty research interests can be found here. BIOL 4000. Research I. (1-2). Consultation, reading, and laboratory and/or field work in a selected area of biology under supervision of faculty member. No more than five total credit hours of research and practicum (BIOL 4000, BIOL 4001, and BIOL 4570) can be applied toward degree requirements BIOL 4001. Research II. (2-3). Laboratory and/or field work in a selected area of biology under supervision of a faculty member; formal paper and presentation of research results at a professional meeting or departmental seminar required. No more than five total credit hours of research and practicum (BIOL 4000, BIOL 4001, BIOL 4570) can be applied toward degree requirements. BIOL 4570. Practicum. (3) Students conducting research or an internship off campus may qualify for Practicum credit hours toward degree requirements. A formal paper and presentation of the Practicum experience/research is required. No more than five total credit hours of research and practicum (BIOL 4000, BIOL 4001, BIOL 4570) can be applied toward degree requirements. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.