Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times For the first time, the international Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics will be held at Southern Methodist University and the Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum in Dallas, TX, on May 19-21, 2022. The theme of the Lectures is “Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times.” We hope you'll join us for one or all of these sessions over the course of three days in Dallas. More than 15 internationally-renowned scholars will meet to consider not only larger questions of morality related to the timely issues of the modern state and medical institutions, but also those timeless questions of everyday ethics emphasized by Dietrich Bonhoeffer such as family, church politics, money, and human flourishing. Buy Tickets on Eventbrite Reserve Your Seat Now Click here to open the registration page in a new window. About the Lectures Rotating annually between the United States and Germany, and originally conceived as part of the Bonhoeffer Chair program at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, the Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics are one of the most important parts of the life of the Bonhoeffer societies worldwide. Event Schedule Click here for a downloadable .PDF version of the event schedule. Thursday, May 19 "An Overview of the Mandates and Everyday Life" 5:00 - 6:00 pm cocktails | 7:00 pm program Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum | 300 N Houston St, Dallas TX 75202 Welcome by Sara Abosch-Jacobson, Barbara Rabin Chief Education Officer of the Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum Introduction by Dallas Gingles, Southern Methodist University Plenary lecture by Gunter Prüller-Jagenteufel (University of Vienna) and a response by Joshua Mauldin (The Center of Theological Inquiry) Friday, May 20 The Modern State: Moral Problems and Promises 9:00 - 10:45 am SMU Dallas Hall, McCord Auditorium (3rd floor) | 3225 University Blvd, Dallas TX 75205 Introduction by Rita Kirk, William F. May Endowed Director of the Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility at SMU Robin Lovin (SMU University Chair in Ethics Emeritus) Esther Reed (University of Exeter) Break 11:00 am - 12:30 pm SMU Dallas Hall, McCord Auditorium (3rd floor) Charles Mathewes (University of Virginia) Lunch Break 2:00 - 3:30 pm SMU Fondren Science building, Room 133 | 3215 Daniel Ave, Dallas TX 75205 Mary Ellen O'Connell (University of Notre Dame) 7:00 - 8:30 pm | Evening plenary lecture SMU Dallas Hall, McCord Auditorium (3rd floor) American Academy of Religion President Marla Frederick (Emory University's Candler School of Theology) and a response from Erica Ramirez (Auburn Seminary) Saturday, May 21 The Church, Medical Institutions, and Everyday Life 9:00 - 12:00 pm | Southern Methodist University Campus Plenaries from Michael DeJonge (University of South Florida) and Marc L. Boom, Houston Methodist Hospital 2022 Sponsors This year’s Lectures are generously sponsored by Auburn Seminary, the Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum, Faith Commons, Perkins School of Theology, the Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility at Southern Methodist University, the Northern Texas - Northern Louisiana Synod, Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Luther Center of North Texas, Cynthia and David Krause, and the Mr. and Mrs. Philip Ritter Charitable Fund. Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share