Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering [email protected] Information Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Site Navigation Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Switching Calendars When you are first added to [email protected] as a new user, you are assigned access to a specific calendar. This calendar becomes your "default" calendar. Each time you log in to [email protected], you are taken to the dashboard of your default calendar and any events you add from there will appear on that calendar. Some users, however, have access to more than one calendar. If you have access to more than one calendar and you need to switch to a different calendar to add or manage events, follow these steps: Log in to [email protected]. In the admin toolbar at the top of the page you will see you will see the name of the Group (Department Calendar name) you are currently accessing. Click on the Group name in the admin toolbar. Click the dropdown menu that appears. This displays the list of the other calendars you have access to. Select the Group you wish to switch into. You will be taken to the dashboard of the new Group. Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top