Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » Licensees » Code of Conduct Set Navigation title in component Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Below is relevant information from the Workplace Code of Conduct that all licensees of the University of Cincinnati must agree to. For more information, or a copy of the Code of Conduct, please contact the Trademarks and Licensing Office or the University's licensing agency, CLC. Workplace Code Standards The University of Cincinnati and CLC are each committed to conducting their business affairs in a socially responsible and ethical manner consistent with their respective educational, research and service missions, and to protecting and preserving the global environment. Legal Compliance Licensee must comply with all applicable legal requirements of the country (ies) of manufacture in conducting business related to or involving the production or sale of Licensed Articles. Where there are differences or conflicts with the Code of Conduct and the laws of the country (ies) of manufacture, the higher standard shall prevail, subject to the following considerations. In countries where law or practice conflicts with these workplace standards, Licensee agrees to consult with governmental, human rights, labor and business organizations and to take effective actions as evaluated by CLC, the University of Cincinnati or their designee, and the applicable Licensee(s) to achieve the maximum possible compliance with each of these standards. Licensee further agrees to refrain from any actions that would diminish the protections of these labor standards. Employment Standards Wages and Benefits: Licensee recognizes that wages are essential to meeting employees’ basic needs. Licensee shall pay employees, as a floor, at least the minimum wage required by local law or the local prevailing industry wage, whichever is higher, and shall provide legally mandated benefits. Working Hours: Except in extraordinary business circumstances, hourly and/or quota-based wage employees shall (i) not be required to work more than the lesser of (a) 48 hours per week and 12 hours overtime or (b) the limits on regular and overtime hours allowed by the law of the country of manufacture or, where the laws of such country do not limit the hours of work, the regular work week in such country plus 12 hours overtime; and (ii) be entitled to at least one day off in every seven day period. Overtime Compensation: In addition to their compensation for regular hours of work, hourly and/or quota-based wage employees shall be compensated for overtime hours at such a premium rate as is legally required in the country of manufacture or, in those countries where such laws do not exist, at a rate at least equal to their regular hourly compensation rate. Child Labor: Licensee shall not employ any person at an age younger than 15 (or 14, where, consistent with International Labor Organization practices for developing countries, the law of the country of manufacture allows such exception). Where the age for completing compulsory education is higher than the standard for the minimum age of employment stated above, the higher age for completing compulsory education shall apply to this section. Licensee agrees to consult with governmental, human rights and nongovernmental organizations, and to take reasonable steps as evaluated by CLC, the University of Cincinnati or their designee, and the applicable Licensee(s) to minimize the negative impact on children released from employment as a result of implementation or enforcement of the Code. Forced Labor: There shall not be any use of forced prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor or other forced labor. Health and Safety: Licensee shall provide a safe and healthy working environment to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, linked with, or occurring in the course of work or as a result of the operation of Licensee facilities. Nondiscrimination: No person shall be subject to any discrimination in employment, including hiring, salary, benefits, advancement, discipline, termination or retirement, on the basis of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinion, or social or ethnic origin. Harassment of Abuse: Every employee shall be treated with dignity and respect. No employee shall be subject to any physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or abuse. Licensee will not use or tolerate any form of corporal punishment. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: Licensee shall recognize and respect the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environmental Sustainability Licensee shall adopt responsible measures to mitigate negative impacts that the workplace has on the environment. Women's Rights Women workers will receive equal remuneration, including benefits, equal treatment, equal evaluation of the quality of their work, and equal opportunity to fill all positions as male workers. Pregnancy tests will not be a condition of employment, nor will they be demanded of employees. Workers who take maternity leave will not face dismissal nor threat of dismissal, loss of seniority or deduction of wages, and will be able to return to their former employment at the same rate of pay and benefits. Workers will not be forced or pressured to use contraception. Workers will not be exposed to hazards, including glues and solvents, that may endanger their safety, including their reproductive health. Licensee shall provide appropriate services and accommodations to women workers in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, including, but not limited to, maternity leaves of absence. Factory Disclosure Licensees shall disclose to the University of Cincinnati, CLC, or another designee, if applicable, the location (including factory name, contact name and job title, address, phone number, e-mail address, products produced, and nature of business association) of each factory used in the production of all items which bear licensed Indicia. Such information shall be updated upon change of any factory site location. The University of Cincinnati reserves the right to disclose this information to third parties, without restriction as to its further distribution. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top