Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Services / Human Resources & Employment Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Faculty & Staff Resources The Division of Human Resources is the central source for information about recruitment, employment, compensation, staff and labor relations and professional development. Benefits A comprehensive resource of Penn’s employment benefits, including provider directories and health and retirement plan enrollment. Compensation Information about Penn’s compensation program, salary structures, performance appraisals, and pay increases. Jobs Links inviting you to explore career opportunities at Penn, search for faculty or staff positions, and submit applications online. Learning and Development Penn employees can sharpen or expand their skill sets through online or on-site programs, career coaching, leadership development, and more. Programs can also be customized to suit the specific needs of a department or group. Employment Policies A comprehensive manual that details Penn’s employment policies, including benefits, compensation, time off, sick leave, and more. Work and Wellness Penn employees can learn about or register for programs promoting work-life balance, healthy living, and caring for family members. Resources for Hiring Officers A central source for University hiring guidelines, including information on staff and faculty recruitment, employee screening and verification, and more. Contact Penn Human Resources The Penn Employee Solution Center is part of Penn’s initiative to improve our people-centered services and provide consistent, up-to-date responses to the University community's questions. solutioncenter@upenn.edu (215) 898-7372 Workday@Penn Log in to Workday@Penn Student and Alumni Resources Career Services Explore Penn’s extensive online resources for career planning and placement and learn about on-campus programs and individualized career counseling services. Penn Law Career Planning and Professionalism Career planning and placement services for law school students and alumni, including student recruitment opportunities, information about clerkships, and programs for professional skill development. MBA Career Management Resources to help Wharton students explore and refine their career aspirations and to help Wharton alumni navigate and advance their careers. Student Employment A central source for information about work-study positions, job referral services, and resources for faculty and staff supervisors. Offices & Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Human Resources Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Student Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. Residential Services Retail Penn offers a host of convenient retail options on and around campus and online. Look for special discounts for Penn students, faculty, and staff. Retail Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Transportation & Parking Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus Event Planning Offices & Services Landing Page A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Services Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top