Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites News Archive Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift News Archive KU Medical Center strives to increase diversity in clinical trials International Clinical Trials Day celebrates the accomplishments of human research studies, but diversity in those studies remains a challenge. May 20, 2022 | Kristi Birch The race to fight COVID-19 gave the public a glimpse into the complex process of using laboratory research to develop vaccines and treatments for people. Critical to moving that research out of the lab and into the clinic are clinical trials, the research studies that test newly designed treatments and vaccines in humans for safety and effectiveness. International Clinical Trials Day, celebrated May 20 every year, recognizes the researchers who design and the staff who conduct those trials, for all diseases, and the people who volunteer to participate in them. Without them, scientific discoveries would never make it out of the lab and into the lives and bodies of patients to improve their health. Across the University of Kansas Medical Center, more than 40,000 people have participated in clinical trials over the last four years. And from January through April of 2022, more than 2,000 people have participated in one of the 700 clinical trials active at KU Medical Center, putting the medical center on track for its most productive year yet. But increasing the number of participants isn’t enough. On May 17, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine released a report calling the need to recruit from people more racial and ethnic groups into clinical trials “urgent.” Differences between people can often mean different responses to the same treatments and therapies, which is why diversity in clinical trial participants—people of different ages, races, ethnic groups, sexes and genders—is crucial. “Clinical trials set the stage for helping us advance medical care,” said Mario Castro, M.D., MPH, director of Frontiers Clinical and Translational Science Institute at KU Medical Center and vice chair for clinical and translational research at KU Medical Center. “The pandemic taught us how important it is to be prepared, as we quickly had to develop and implement clinical trials to make the vaccines and treatments that are now available for COVID infection. But we also had to make sure those enrolled in the studies were diverse and reflected the populations most impacted by the pandemic.” Achieving diversity in trial participants is necessary for the study of many diseases. Earlier this year, The University of Kansas Cancer Center launched a media campaign to encourage minority participation in cancer trials. Just 2.9% of all participants in U.S. cancer trials are African American--yet the African American population of the United States is more than 13%. And despite being more than 18% of the U.S. population, Hispanic/Latinx individuals are less than 7% of clinical trial participants in cancer drug trials. Diversity helps ensure not only that new treatments are effective for all people, but that all people have access to the experimental drugs available only through such trials. “We offer a wide range of leading-edge trials that are not available anywhere else,” noted Roy A. Jensen, M.D., vice chancellor and director of The University of Kansas Cancer Center. “By participating in a clinical trial, you have access to potentially effective treatments not available elsewhere.” The University of Kansas Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center is pressing for increased diversity across numerous studies. There is an especially urgent need for African American participants in Alzheimer's clinical research because they are twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to develop the disease. "With more participation by different groups, there's also an opportunity for us to understand why we have these disparities," said Jeffrey Burns, M.D., professor of neurology and co-director of the KU ADRC. "Coming to a better understanding of that is crucial. Then we can work to reduce those disparities, which comes back to having drugs that work for everybody, or those disparities will only worsen." Ashley Carlson, assistant director of Research Training & Communications at KU Medical Center, who oversees training for researchers about the myriad government rules and requirements for federally funded clinical trials, pointed also to the efforts the medical center is making by reaching out to underserved populations directly. “We have folks like the Frontiers Community & Collaborator Core team, who are out on the ground talking to communities that have been left out of research, working to get them engaged, and partnering in the research process,” she said. “[Diversity] is on everybody's mind right now, from the people who are working on individual trials to the administration behind it. The whole field is keenly aware of the legacy behind the lack of diversity and representation in trials. And we're definitely mindful here in our work as well.” Would you like to participate in clinical research? For cancer trials, visit the KU Cancer Center website or call 913-945-7552. For Alzheimer's disease or brain health studies, visit the KU Alzheimer's Disease Research Center website or call 913-588-0555 (choose option 1). For information about other trials at the Clinical Research Center, call 913-588-6290. See Related Stories in Research Newsroom Media Inquiries 913-617-8698 khawes@kumc.edu News and Media Relations Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.