Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> About the Libraries >> About The Florida State University Libraries About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University by providing organized access to quality information in all formats, promoting information literacy, preserving information and engaging in collaborative partnerships to disseminate ideas to advance intellectual discovery. The Libraries’ collections include over 5.4 million volumes, with a website offering access to more than 446 databases, over 319,000 electronic journals, and over 2.8 million e-books. For more information please read our FSU Library Brochure. (PDF) The library is a member of the following organizations: Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Center for Research Libraries (CRL) Association of Southeastern Research Libraries (ASERL) The Florida State University Libraries include eight libraries on the Tallahassee Campus: Robert Manning Strozier Library Dirac Science Library Claude Pepper Library College of Music Allen Music Library Innovation Hub College of Law Research Center College of Medicine Maguire Medical Library FAMU/FSU Engineering Library Other FSU Libraries, Museums, and Research Centers include: FSU Panama City, Florida Library and Learning Center FSU Panama, Republic of Panama John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art FSU Florence, Italy Study Center FSU London Study Center "This library is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government documents. Public access to the government documents collection is guaranteed by public law." 2020-2021 New Conversations View the highlights of FSU Libraries with the 2020-2021 New Conversations annual report and magazine. The report includes our transition to remote learning, an open-access publishing program, the unveiling of Strozier Library’s second floor renovation; and more. Read New Conversations now! About Us Dean's Welcome Library Hours Staff Directory Departments Giving to the Libraries Visiting the Libraries Facts & Figures Values Advancement Board Collection Strategies Faculty Assembly & Committees About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!