Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Elementary Education (BS) – K-6 Certification Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Elementary Education K-6 certification track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal K-6 schools that require certification. Students graduating in this track earn both an ESOL and Reading Endorsement. This Elementary Education B.S. K-6 certification program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Elementary-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e., an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State University System institution. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA. Complete EDF 2005 Introduction to Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. The K-6 Certification track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 3rd Grade Reading Teacher 4th Grade Math Teacher Counselor Education Professor Elementary School Band Director Elementary School Teacher Grades 1 Thru 5 Teacher Literacy Education Professor Mathematics Education Professor Primary Education Professor Science Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Special Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Elementary Education (BS) - K-6 Certification University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Elementary Education K-6 certification track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal K-6 schools that require certification. Students graduating in this track earn both an ESOL and Reading Endorsement. This Elementary Education B.S. K-6 certification program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Elementary-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e., an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State University System institution. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA. Complete EDF 2005 Introduction to Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. The K-6 Certification track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 21 Total Credits Complete all of the following A minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better is required. Courses taken at a Florida College System institution may substitute for select courses in Other Program Requirements with the permission of the department. Complete the following: EDF2130 - Child and Adolescent Development for Educators (3) EDE2280 - Arts and Wellness in Elementary Classrooms (3) EDF2720 - Children in Schools: Legal, Ethical and Safety Concerns (3) Complete the following: SCE3053 - Elementary Science for Teaching (3) SSE3112 - Elementary Social Studies for Teaching (3) EDG2940 - Experiential Learning in Education (3) EDG2000 - Careers in K-12 Education (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits The following recommended sequence of required upper division courses may vary at regional campus locations. Students must complete 60 hours of Advanced Level courses required with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better is required. Semester I 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following EDG 4410, MAE 3310, RED 3012, and TSL 4080 required prior to Internship I. Complete the following: EDG4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) MAE3310 - Elementary Mathematics for Teaching I (3) LAE3414 - Literature for Children (3) RED3012 - Basic Foundations of Reading (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) Semester II 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following RED 4519 and MAE 3311 required prior to Internship I. Complete the following: SCE3310 - Teaching Science in Elementary School (3) SSE3312 - Teaching Social Science in the Elementary School (3) LAE4314 - Language Arts in the Elementary School (3) RED4519 - Diagnostic and Corrective Reading Strategies (3) MAE3311 - Elementary Mathematics for Teaching II (3) Summer 6 Total Credits Complete the following: EDF4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment (3) TSL4240 - Issues in Second Language Acquisition (3) Semester III (Internship I Block) 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Prior to Internship I, the student must have completed each of the prerequisite courses indicated above with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission to Internship I. Passing score on the General Knowledge Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is required before admission into Internship I. Passing score on the Professional Education Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is strongly recommended as soon as possible after completing the following courses: EDG 4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management, EDF 4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment and TSL 4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools. Students must apply and be approved for Internship I. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. The following courses must be completed prior to beginning Internship I: EDG 4410, RED 3012, TSL 4080, MAE 3310, MAE 3311, RED 4519 RED 4942, MAE 4326, and EEX 4070 are taken concurrently with EDE 3942 - Internship I. Students should not plan to take additional courses with Internship I block because of the intensity of the Internship I semester. Complete the following: RED4942 - Practicum for Assessment and Instruction of Reading (3) MAE4326 - How Children Learn Mathematics (3) EDE3942 - Internship I (3) EEX4070 - Teaching Exceptional Students (3) Semester IV (Internship II Block) 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Passing scores on all sections [General Knowledge, Professional, and Subject Area (Elementary Education K-6)] of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) are required prior to entry into Internship II. All methods/specialization/foundations courses must be completed with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better before registering for Internship II. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission to Internship II. Students must apply and be approved for Internship II. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Satisfactory completion of Internship II requires the student to demonstrate proficiency in all 12 Florida Educator Accomplished Practices at the pre-professional level in accordance with State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Complete the following: EDE4943 - Internship II (Elementary) (9) EDE4301 - Elem Ed Capstone Colloquium (3) Grand Total Credits: 81 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida