Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Breadcrumb Apply Apply Applying to UCR Wherever your journey started, there is a place for you at UCR. As a top-ranked ethnically and economically diverse university, we offer interdisciplinary learning opportunities through undergraduate, graduate, and professional education programs. Learn more about applying to UCR below. Undergraduate Admission UCR is a top-tiered university on the cutting edge of science, engineering, humanities, business, and research. Learn more about admissions requirements, important deadlines, and how to apply. LEARN MORE Graduate Admission UCR offers a wide range of opportunities for graduate study and research. Get more information on the application process and deadlines for the program you're interested in. LEARN MORE School of Medicine UCR's School of Medicine serves Inland Southern California by training a diverse workforce of physicians and developing innovative research and health care delivery programs. Find out more about requirements and deadlines to apply. LEARN MORE Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel