Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Peace and Presence: Somatic Release Events Past Event Peace and Presence: Somatic Release Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 7, 2021 2:15 PM - 3:00 PM America/New_York Online Peace & Presence is a Columbia SVR initiative that introduces diverse holistic wellness tools and techniques for survivors of sexual trauma to experience and adapt to their own wellness needs. The program envisions a space where survivors feel held, understood without having to explain themselves, and given space to breathe and connect with one another in profoundly spiritual and experiential ways. Through its multi-faceted approach to mindfulness, movement and nurturing of one’s body, this program hopes to aid survivors to recognize and cherish their innate capacity to transcend trauma while being connected to a caring community of allies. Our bodies serve us in many ways, alerting us to important information about our internal and external environments. After a traumatic experience(s) our bodies may hold onto physical states that no longer serve us. In this workshop, you will learn about the ways in which your body may be holding onto tension, difficult emotions, or have difficulty feeling present, and practice ways to release this within your body. You may be asked to stand up or move your body throughout the workshop. No materials are needed to participate in this workshop. To Register for This Workshop Please Visit: https://columbiahealth.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_tIAf_9CwQyaRx6Xmb6PhKg Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us at least 5-10 days in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212.854.2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Ashley Delphia 212-854-3500 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close