Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Academics / Undergraduate Undergraduate College of Arts & Sciences The Wharton School School of Engineering and Applied Science School of Nursing Undergraduate Programs Penn’s undergraduate students have the opportunity to pursue nearly 100 majors across four schools. They also often engage across disciplines, forging new paths in research and scholarship. Dual Degree Supported by dedicated faculty advisers, students may pursue more than one Penn degree, still graduate in four years, and enjoy an active life beyond the classroom. University Catalog Find detailed information about traditional undergraduate programs at Penn as well as important academic policies and resources. A-Z Listing of Programs Discover programs offered for academic credit. Interested users can narrow results by academic level and school. A chance to imagine memorials of tomorrow A history course taught by Jared Farmer looks at Philadelphia’s monuments past and present, and lets students envision what future memorials may be. Undergraduate Facts 7,146 undergraduate students enrolled at the College 1,794 undergraduate students enrolled at Penn Engineering 574 undergraduate students enrolled at Penn Nursing 1,778 undergraduate students enrolled at Wharton 6:1 student-faculty ratio 99 total undergraduate majors being pursued All Penn Facts Interested in Attending? APPLY TO PENN Undergraduate Admissions The college application process is a meaningful journey that encourages you to reflect on yourself, your community, and your interests. Your voice matters, and we can’t wait to hear your story. Undergraduate Aid Program Penn is the largest university with a program that enables eligible undergraduates to receive grant-based financial aid packages for eight semesters. The program applies to traditional, dependent students in the four undergraduate schools, who are pursuing their first baccalaureate degree. President’s Innovation Prize President’s Innovation Prize awards a graduating Penn senior, or a team of graduating seniors, to envision and implement an innovative, commercial venture that makes a positive difference in the world. President’s Engagement Prize Competitively awarded on an annual basis, the President’s Engagement Prizes empower Penn seniors to design and undertake local, national, or global engagement projects during the first year after they graduate. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top