Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement About Policies Awareness Services Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement For information related to Copyright Infringement visit: https://www.uc.edu/infosec/copyright-infringement.html Compliance & Law The IT@UC Office of Information Security (OIS) is responsible for the protection of data items that UC collects and has on file about you. For more detailed information on how we work to protect and safeguard your information please go to: About OIS. Expand each section below to find descriptions of laws relating to the protection of data: Expand All Privacy of Personal Data: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Federal Privacy Act of 1974 Prevents the unauthorized release of personal records. OIS provides guidance on how to secure personally identifiable information (PII). In addition OIS responds to and investigates potential privacy violations at the university. Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 Protects wire, oral, and electronic communications when being made, in transit, or stored on computers. OIS provides guidance to secure wire, oral, and electronic communications. In some instances OIS is responsible for verification of the compliance. Identity Theft Enforcement and Restitution Act Enables increased federal prosecution of identity theft crimes and restitution to victims of identity theft. OIS responds to, investigates and cooperates with local and federal law enforcement on identity theft cases. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Requires the university to provide students with access to their education records, an opportunity to have the records amended, and some control over the disclosure of information from the records. OIS supports the Office of the Registrar on FERPA compliance matters as deemed necessary. ORC§1347.15 (Formerly House Bill 648) Requires state agencies to adopt new rules for governing access to confidential personal information. OIS provides guidance on how to secure personally identifiable information (PII). In addition IT@UC OIS responds to and investigates potential privacy violations. Expand All International Privacy Law: Expand Law How it applies to UC Responsible Party EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) GDPR applies to organizations located within the EU and to organizations located outside of the EU if they offer goods or services to, monitor the behavior of, or hold personal data of EU data subjects, regardless of the organization's location. Director of Privacy Expand All Privacy and Protection of Financial Information: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (GLBA) Regulates how information is being shared in regards to financial institutions. OIS supports the Division of Administration and Finance (A&F) in achieving GLBA compliance. OIS also provides general guidance on internal controls over financial data and transactions. Expand All Integrity of Credit Reporting and Protection from Identity Theft: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA) Red Flag requires university units to develop policies and procedures when they receive a notice of address discrepancy from a consumer-reporting agency. The regulation also requires the university to develop and implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program for combating identity theft in connection with new and existing accounts. OIS assists university units such as Finance and Financial Aid to develop compliant operational processes and Identity Theft Prevention Programs. Expand All Computer Fraud: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 Requires the university to have a login banner on all university computers/servers to ensure a successful prosecution if fraud and related activity occur on a university computer. OIS proactively monitors UC’s network for malicious activity. In addition OIS partners with local and federal law enforcement on cyber incidents. Expand All State of Ohio Security Breach Law: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Ohio Security Breach Law Intended to reduce hacking of computer systems. OIS proactively monitors UC’s network for malicious activity. In addition OIS partners with local and federal law enforcement on cyber incidents. Expand All Maintaining a Security Infrastructure at UC: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Computer Security Act of 1987 Improves the security and privacy of sensitive information in Federal computer systems and establishes minimum acceptable security practices for such systems. OIS establishes policies, procedures, standards for unified security architecture. Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) of 2014 The Office of Research advises if the university has contracts with federal agencies that require compliance with this act. OIS assesses FISMA requirements in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Expand All Credit Card Regulations and Protection of Card Numbers: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Payment Card Industry (PCI) Regulations Helps organizations proactively protect customer account data. OIS supports the Office of the Treasury to assist with technical questions regarding PCI. Expand All Protection of Safe Guarding of Medical Records: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Ensures the security and privacy of the patient's data. OIS partners with UC Academic Health Center and other relevant areas of the university to establish and support a robust and sustainable HIPAA control framework. Expand All Intellectual Property: Expand Law How it applies to UC OIS Responsibilities Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA) Provides liability protection when concerning copyright infringement. OIS is responsible for the compliance of DMCA at the university. U.S. Copyright Law, October 2007 States measures to protect copyrighted works. OIS partners with other university departments to interpret and enforce compliance with the law. To view PDF files, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download. University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.