Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Health & Safety They’re in good hands Your student may not be living under your roof anymore, but we know their well-being is as important to you as ever. From exceptional medical care and mental health counseling to recreation classes, safety resources, peer advocates and more, the UW offers a breadth of resources to keep our students healthy and well cared for. You can help your student stay well by listening to their concerns and encouraging them to seek support when they need it. Talk with your Husky Recognizing the signs of depression and anxiety Personal safety and awareness of surroundings (walking in groups, communicating plans to friends or family, etc.) Establishing an emergency contact (such as a friend or roommate) for family members to call in case of emergency Explore more conversation topics A safe return to campus Preventing the spread of COVID-19 remains a top priority for the UW. The university will require students and employees to be vaccinated by autumn quarter. Most in-person instruction and activities will resume this fall. Latest COVID-19 information Here when they need us Mental health is not one-size-fits-all. That’s why the UW offers a variety of services to meet students where they are. Individual counseling. Group therapy. Drop-in workshops. 24/7 crisis services. Mental health services More to explore Guide to talking to your Husky about alcohol This guide discusses general issues about communicating effectively with your student. In all communication processes there are two important aspects: the style in which the material is presented and the content of the material. You may find that some parts of the guide apply to you more than other parts. View Guide LiveWell peer health educators Students may feel more comfortable talking to a fellow student. LiveWell staff are dedicated to educating their peers on various health and wellness topics. Peer health educators facilitate educational workshops, organize awareness campaigns and host events throughout the year. LiveWell On-campus medical and dental care Hall Health Center provides medical care to the UW community, and dental care is available through the UW School of Dentistry, located in the Health Sciences Building. Schedule an appointment Individual safety support SafeCampus helps the UW community respond to safety and well-being concerns. When you call SafeCampus, a trained, caring professional will listen and offer support, guidance, and referral to resources. SafeCampus Emergency alerts UW students can subscribe to receive emergency messages via text and email. UW Alert messages are also posted on Facebook and Twitter. UW Alert After hours medical care Students with health care needs after hours can get prepaid medical advice from a nurse or visit an urgent care clinic. UW Neighborhood Clinics Campus contacts Husky Health & Well-Being Hall Health Center 206.543.5030 The Counseling Center Schmitz Hall 401 206-543-1240 SafeCampus 206-685-7233 (available 24/7) safecampus@uw.edu UWPD Safety Escort Services Husky NightWalk – 206.685.9255 Husky Nightride — 206.685.3146 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA