Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni News | Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Future Students Choose Your Major Visit the College Apply to the UofM Scholarships & Fellowships Student Life FAQs Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2022 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering Future Students Herff Engineering Scholarships & Fellowships Scholarships & Fellowships Awarded by the Herff College of Engineering When financial barriers prevent a talented individual from expanding or completing his or her education, it is a loss for society. At the Herff College of Engineering, we measure our success in the differences we make in students' lives. Thanks to the Dean's vision and generous donors, we are able to offer competitive scholarships. Freshman Scholarships The Herff College of Engineering offers a robust scholarship program available to first-time freshmen. This scholarship program offers three opportunities for incoming freshmen. The amounts and requirements are below: Herff Merit Scholarship $5,000 / year (max 4 years) 32 ACT comp or 1420 SAT and a 32 ACT Math or 720 SAT Math and a 3.5 GPA $3,000 / year (max 4 years) 30 ACT comp or 1360 SAT and a 3.5 GPA Engineering Success Scholarship* $3,000/ year (max 4 years) 26 ACT Math or equivalent 3.5 GPA Evidence of Financial Need (Pell Eligibility, unmet financial need from FAFSA, etc.) *The Engineering Success scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis. To apply for either Herff Merit or Engineering Success scholarship, please fill out this form online or offline. The deadline is December 1, 2021. Maintenance of Scholarships: 1. A student is eligible to receive the Herff Engineering Merit Scholarship for a maximum of 8 semesters. This includes the initial award year (2 semesters) and 6 additional semesters. A student may petition the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Administration to put their award on hold for a maximum of 2 semesters. 2. The scholarship will be terminated if the student changes to a non-engineering major. 3. A student awarded a Herff Engineering Merit Scholarship must make progress toward an engineering degree during the academic year (Fall, Spring). This requirement varies depending on major, but in general, implies that you are on track according to the standard curriculum plan of your program (see the catalog). If you have questions, contact the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Administration. You may petition the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Administration to count courses taken in the summer toward this requirement. No scholarship money will be allocated for summer courses. A student must be full-time during each of the regular semesters (Fall, Spring). Failure to make adequate progress toward degree may result in the termination of the Herff Engineering Merit Scholarship. 4. During the first two semesters, a student must maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or higher. Thereafter, the student must maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.25 or higher. If the student’s cumulative GPA is below the specified target for any single semester, the scholarship may be terminated. In subsequent semesters, if your GPA achieves the minimum, you may appeal to the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Administration to have your scholarship reinstated. It is the student’s responsibility to initiate this appeal. 5. Your award amount may be adjusted based upon your total award package, and financial aid guidelines. 6. Recipients of the Herff Engineering Merit Scholarship are ineligible to apply for other Herff Engineering private or departmental scholarships, unless they receive permission from the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs and Administration. 7. The specific scholarship fund from which your award is made may change from year-to-year. Continuing Student Scholarships The University handles most of the continuing student scholarships through the Tiger Scholarship Management program. You can access the TSM portal through your mymemphis account. University of Memphis Scholarships Click here to learn more about University scholarships Herff Graduate Fellowships DESCRIPTION: The Herff Fellowship provides financial support to outstanding graduate students in the Herff College of Engineering to support their studies toward the MS or PhD degree. MS students are supported for a maximum of 3 semesters, and PhD students for a maximum of 5 semesters (excluding summers). The typical stipend is $8500 per semester and is usually augmented by a tuition waiver and summer support.. Applications are reviewed by a committee consisting of the graduate coordinators from the eligible departments within the college. Awards are granted to highly qualified applicants consistent with Herff College goals. Download Graduate Herff Fellowship Instructions and Application Here DEADLINE: Applications and letters of recommendation are to be emailed to herffgradfellowapps@memphis.edu or mailed to the Director of Graduate Programs, Herff College of Engineering, Engineering Administration 201, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152. Applications must be received no later than March 1 to be considered for the following academic year. The notification process will begin in April or earlier. EXPECTATIONS: Candidates should define their research interests and identify their potential faculty advisor when applying for a Fellowship. International recipients must be present on campus two weeks before the start of classes to finalize the award. Domestic recipients must be present on campus one week before the start of classes to finalize the award. Recipients who miss these deadlines may forfeit the award for that semester and possibly the academic year. Specific duties of the student will be assigned by the Department Chairs in consultation with Herff College Administration and may include tutoring engineering students or laboratory instruction. ELIGIBILITY: Eligible applicants include: Bachelors degree graduates intending to pursue graduate studies, Masters degree graduates (or candidates), and current PhD candidates from accredited engineering programs. LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION: Two or more letters of recommendation are to be submitted using the following email herffgradfellowapps@memphis.edu CRITERIA FOR AWARDING FELLOWSHIPS The candidate must: Be admitted to the graduate program by the Graduate School and the College of Engineering, and/or the appropriate Engineering Department; Possess appropriate verbal and written communication skills; Demonstrate potential for success in the engineering profession through past honors/awards, leadership, publications and professional experience(s). Identify a major faculty advisor and research interest for their graduate studies. Post-Doctoral Fellowships DEADLINE: Not accepting applications at this time. JOB SUMMARY: Will perform post-doctoral research related to areas in civil, electrical, or mechanical engineering. Applicant should have a faculty sponsor in the Herff College of Engineering with whom he/she plans to work. Minimum Qualifications: Ph.D. degree in civil, electrical, or mechanical engineering. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Should have the capabilities to design and perform experimental plans, to understand statistical analysis procedures, to analyze and interpret data, to oversee lab procedures and lab personnel/students, to prepare data, write reports/articles for technical publications and to assist in proposal development. Should have sufficient interpersonal skills in dealing with students (graduate and undergraduate), co-workers, alumni, clients, university personnel and other related groups. Should have excellent computer skills. SPECIAL CONDITIONS: Position is funded for one year with possible extension for an additional year. Applicant should have a faculty sponsor in the Herff College of Engineering with whom he/she plans to work. The sponsor will be required to summarize the proposed research plans and attach that to the application. SALARY: Commensurate with education and experience, up to $42,000/year. Screening of applicants for the two postdoctoral positions will begin on TBD and may continue until the position is filled. Starting date for these positions is TBD. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/19/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.