Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Professional Education Menu About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources Baylor>Professional Education>Student Resources>FAQs FAQs Application and Admissions 1. When do I apply? You should apply whenever you feel ready to begin your Online Program, deadlines vary between each program. For more information regarding deadlines, check out your program's website. 2. Will my earned courses credits transfer into an Online Program at Baylor? Inquire with your program regarding transfer credit options. 3. Other than my application, what do I need to send to Baylor? Check within your program to obtain a list of required documents. 4. I've received my letter of acceptance, how do I enroll in classes? Visit your Student Center in BearWeb. Meet with Your Baylor Program Director and Staff. Their name will appear in your Student Center. Depending on your program, you will have a student success coach who will be reaching out to you by email, phone or text, whatever is your preferred method of communication. Common Online Degree Questions 1. Will I have an advisor? Your academic program will provide advising assistance. Contact your academic program staff for advising assistance. 2. How do I purchase books or materials? The official Baylor Bookstore is Follett They accept online orders and will ship products to your indicated address. However plan for extra time to receive materials. Baylor provides several free, downloadable software and discounted software products. Find the list of available products. 3. I am a veteran who served in the military, what kind of assistance can I get for my online education. Veterans Educational and Transition Services ensures the academic success of Baylor's military and veteran students. Use the link below to contact a veteran advisor. Earning My Degree Online 1. Will my degree be considered an "online" degree? When you earn your Baylor degree online, you receive the same Baylor diploma as on-campus students. There will not be a online distinction on your diploma. 2. How long will take me to finish my programs? Each Baylor Online Program is unique and have their own timelines for completion. This also varies based on how many credits you choose to take each semester. For more information or to estimate how long it will take to complete your degree, visit your program's website. 3. Will I be able to attend graduation? As long as you're approved by your college, all students enrolled in an online program at Baylor are welcome to attend their graduation ceremony on campus in Waco. In order to be eligible, you must file for graduation. This application and approval process takes place through your college and the Graduate School. For more details on the graduation process click the link below. You will receive your Baylor degree by mail, or at the ceremony if you decide to attend. After graduation you will become an alumnus of The Baylor University and are strongly encouraged to join the Baylor Alumni Network. For additional information to at https://www.baylor.edu/alumni/network/ 4. Is my entire program offered online? Baylor's degree program will have varying requirements. Your program may require campus immersion visits, weekly online class meetings or intensive face to face sessions. For more information, contact your program advisor. Financial & Tuition 1. How much is tuition? Is it different if I'm outside of Texas? Click the link below to estimate your cost of attendance. 2. I'm a Veteran, how do I use my GI Bill or receive financial aid? Please visit the link below for more information on your GI Bill and financial aid options. 3. Can I apply for any scholarships? For Online Graduate student aid options, please visit the website below. 4. Am I eligible for financial aid? Baylor offers online students the same financial aid opportunities offered to campus students. If you are interested in pursuing federal loan assistance, please complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Baylor's Federal School Code is 003545. If you need more information on financial aid, please visit our financial aid page or call 254-710-2611 to speak to a financial aid counselor. 5. How do I apply for financial aid? The first step in applying for financial aid is to file your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Baylor's Federal School Code is 003545. Learning Online 1. How do I interact with my Classmates and Instructors? Upon enrollment of your course, you will receive log in information to your program's course. If you have questions, please direct them to the staff of the program in which you are enrolled. 2. How does my online program work? Each program has different modes of online environments. Please direct your questions to your degree program staff. 3. How flexible is taking class online? What is my expected time commitment? Each degree program will have a unique class structure. For program specific questions, please contact staff within their offices. For tips on taking online courses, please click the link below. 4. Do I have specific class time or a specific time what I need to be online? Each program will administer their unique schedules. Click the link below for tips for online student success. State Authorization 1. What is state authorization? The state authorization regulation requires an institution to be authorized by the state in which it has its main location, or in which it has an additional physical location offering at least half of an educational program. 2. Why does it matter? 3. What is the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA)? Baylor University has been approved by the State of Texas to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements. NC-SARA is a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education. This agreement allows students from 49 participating states to file complaints with the State of Texas where Baylor is based, rather than their own state of residence. 4. Does SARA cover professional licensing board authorizations in other states? If you are considering an academic program that leads to a professional license in your state, it is highly recommended that you first seek guidance from the appropriate licensing agency in your home state, before beginning the academic program located outside of your state. It is the student's responsibility to contact the appropriate licensing board in his/her home state to confirm whether our program, at Baylor, will meet the requirements for licensure in that state. Criminal History and Occupational License Notice If you are applying for admission to a program that may prepare you for an occupational license and/or if you later decide to change to such a program, Texas law requires that Baylor notify you of your potential ineligibility to obtain a license due to prior criminal convictions. Student Activities & Benefits 1. Can I get a BearID? Yes, you will be issued a BearID 2. Can I participate in student activities? Yes you can participate in student activities. 3. Can I get mental health support from Baylor? Yes, visit the link below for more details. 4. Am I eligible for Baylor athletics tickets? Yes 5. While on campus for immersions can I use the student life center? Yes. Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Professional Education Mailing Address: Baylor University Professional Education One Bear Place #97071 Waco TX 76798-7071 Physical Address: Pat Neff Hall Suite 304 1320 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources