Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Active Shooter Avoid Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown and Deny Alert and Notify Defend and Counter Police Intervention Resources Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Active Shooter Avoid Immediately, upon the sight or sound of an active shooter or person with a weapon event, create as much cover and/or distance between you and the shooter as possible. This may allow you the ability to escape the area altogether or allow you an opportunity to seek refuge in a classroom or office and lockdown. Cover – is an object or structure that by its very nature has the ability to prevent the penetration of a fired bullet (thick metal, concrete, brick, large trees, vehicle engines, etc.). Concealment – is used to hide from someone’s sight. It may also provide Cover (see above), but many times does not (drapes, cardboard box, sheetrock, desks, chairs, bushes, etc.). Knowing the location of the assailant will be your primary factor in deciding whether to escape or lockdown. Is the assailant in the immediate area? Is the assailant inside or outside; upstairs, downstairs or on your floor? If you can avoid the assailant and safely escape, then do it. Knowing the floor plan of the building you are occupying prior to a critical incident will help in your decision to escape or lockdown. Where are all the exits to the building? Are the windows functioning, through which to allow you to escape? Can you break a window to create an escape route? Where are all the stairwells and where do they lead? Time and distance from the assailant create a safer environment. Stay away from long hallways that do not provide cover, rooms that you are not able to properly secure or barricade and wide-open areas. Using a ‘leap-frog’, bound-and-cover or serpentine technique may assist you during your escape, but remember to keep moving; it is much more difficult to shoot at and hit a moving target than a stationary one. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies