Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Departments TCS Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Learn to teach, challenge, and nurture a diverse range of Pre-K–2 students. The program stresses a humanistic approach to teaching that is both developmentally appropriate and intellectually challenging. It prepares the teacher to work with a diverse range of children by providing the teacher with knowledge about instructional practices, along with perspectives on children, schools, and society. Partnerships and Research The program reflects close linkages between current research and best practices in teaching and learning through partnerships with the Boston College Children's Center (NAEYC accredited) and Saint Columbkille Partnership school. Apply Inquire At a Glance Number of courses 15 courses and practicum, for a total of 37 credits. Program length Full-time students typically finish in 1.5–2 years. Start dates Fall, spring, and summer. Curriculum Our curriculum prepares teachers to work with a diverse range of children by providing them with knowledge about instructional practices, along with perspectives on children, schools, and society. Requirements Courses: 15 Credits: 37 Practicum Program of Study Practicum Core: 11 courses Practicum: 4 courses Master's Comprehensive Exam Course Course Title Credit EDUC7438 Instruction of Students with Special Needs and of Diverse Learners This course focuses on the education of students with disabilities and other learners from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. The goal of the course is to promote access to the general curriculum for all students through participation in standards-based reform. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) provides the theoretical framework for this course. Through an examination of historical milestones, landmark legislation, systems for classification, approaches to intervention, and the daily life experiences of diverse learners, students acquire knowledge about diversity and the resources, services, and supports available for creating a more just society through education. 3 EDUC7520 Mathematics and Technology: Teaching, Learning, and Curriculum in the Elementary School This course presents methods and materials useful in teaching mathematics to early childhood and elementary school children and the different ways in which technology can be used in the elementary school classroom. The course will consider the teaching of mathematics and the use of technology from both theoretical and practical perspectives. 3 EDUC7542 Teaching Reading Offers teacher candidates skills for teaching reading to school age children. Students will gain understanding of reading through a historical, political, theoretical, and practical lens. They will understand the delivery of instruction by learning a balanced approach to teaching reading. They will gain familiarity of how children learn to read by partaking in observations, assessments, and instruction with a school age child. Students will learn a variety of ways to meet the needs of linguistically and culturally diverse learners. They will recognize reading difficulties and learn ways to differentiate instruction for such readers. 3 EDUC7543 Teaching Language Arts Examines the development of written and spoken language and methods of instruction for oral and written language from the preschool years through early adolescence. Students learn strategies for identifying children's areas of strength and weakness and to plan instruction. Addresses the needs of children from non-English speaking homes. Expects students to spend at least 16 hours distributed across at least eight sessions in a classroom or other setting where they can work with one or more children. 3 EDUC6346 Teaching Bilingual Students in Elementary Schools Deals with the practical aspects of the instruction of teaching English Language Learners in Sheltered English Immersion, and mainstream classrooms. Reviews and applies literacy and content area instructional approaches. Includes such other topics as history and legislation related to English Language Learners and bilingual education, and the influences of language and culture on students, instruction, curriculum, and assessment. There are two sections of this course: one for elementary and early childhood education majors and one for secondary education majors. 3 EDUC6316 Developmentally Appropriate Curriculum in Early Childhood This course focuses on the development and implementation of curriculum in early education. The Massachusetts Guidelines for Preschool Learning Experiences and the national standards for developmentally appropriate practices will be utilized throughout the semester. This course will highlight each of the curriculum domains (language/literacy, mathematics, science and technology, social studies, health, and the arts) while demonstrating how to build an integrated curriculum in an early childhood classroom. The importance and value of play in the early years will be emphasized, and strategies will be shared to help teacher candidates document student learning. 3 APSY7611 Fundamentals of Early Childhood Education Focuses on learning (including behavioral, cognitive, and information processing approaches), motivation, and social development, while incorporating the role of play in the learning and development of the young child. Examines individual differences and the effects of special needs on learning and development, as well as program implications. 3 EDUC7435 Social Contexts of Education Examines the role of situational, school, community, peer, and family factors on the education of children. Participants in the course will strive to understand the effects of their own social context on their education, to develop strategies to help students understand their context, and to understand and contribute to what schools can do to improve teaching and learning and school culture for all students regardless of internal and external variables. 3 EDUC6100 Partnering with Diverse Families and Communities in Early Childhood This course is designed to help early childhood educators establish effective partnerships and reciprocal relationships with diverse families and communities. First, students will learn about models of family involvement and important family developmental processes in early childhood such as attachment, maternal responsiveness, and parenting styles. Second, we discuss important social, cultural, and linguistic characteristics which shape the life of families and children and are relevant for understanding diverse families. Third, we present strategies for supporting and working with diverse families through family, school, and community partnerships. At the end of this course, students will have developed an action plan for working with diverse families in early childhood settings including activities for: collecting and providing information, planning for family involvement in the classroom, establishing reciprocal relationships with families, and collaborating with communities. 1 EDUC6101 Art and Music in Early Childhood Education The main purpose of this course is to encourage early childhood educators to embrace the unique characteristics of young children's artistic and musical expression and appreciation of these experiences. By providing a foundational knowledge of young children's creative thinking and aesthetic development, the course will teach you how to apply effective pedagogical strategies in teaching art and music and how to integrate art and music across the early childhood curriculum. Students will learn how to bridge theory and practice through various readings, recorded lectures, and classroom examples. At the end of this course, you will be able to plan effective process-focused art and music lessons, use various materials and medium for artistic and musical expression, maximize the potential of your classroom resources, and use art and music to promote multiculturalism, diversity, and enhance family involvement. 1 EDUC6102 Science Playing and Learning in Early Childhood Classroom This course is designed to encourage and prepare early childhood educators for planning and implementing engaging and developmentally appropriate science learning experiences (Pre-K-2nd grade). An overarching focus of the course is instilling in students an appreciation for the wonder of science and the world around them. The course is divided into three science content areas: Earth and Space Sciences, Life Sciences, and Physical Sciences. Students will learn how to connect their teaching with new science, technology, and engineering standards. Through interactive activities and discussions including the review of video, science lessons, and research in science education, we will explore key elements and challenges of science teaching and provide a foundation for supporting science learning in the early childhood classroom. 1 Course Course Title Credit EDUC7431 Graduate Inquiry Seminar I The course will coincide with the pre-practicum experience. It is designed to introduce teacher candidates to inquiry as stance and the skills necessary to conduct classroom-based research that leads to pupil achievement and teaching for social justice. The course is designed to help teacher candidates mediate the relationships of theory and practice, pose questions for inquiry, learn through reflection and discussion, learn from their students and colleagues, construct critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling, and to improve teaching and learning. The second part of this sequence is 432 which is taken in conjunction with full-time student teaching (EDUC7420). 1 EDUC7432 Graduate Inquiry Seminar II The primary goal of this capstone seminar is to initiate teacher candidates into the practice of teacher research or collaborative inquiry for action. Collaborative Inquiry for Action is an ongoing, collaborative process of systematic and self-critical inquiry by educators about their own schools and classrooms in order to increase teachers' knowledge, improve students' learning, and contribute to social justice. This final project will be presented at a roundtable presentation at the end of the semester and also satisfies the M.Ed., MAT, MST Comprehensive Examination in Education. 2 EDUC7429 Graduate Pre-practicum This is a pre-practicum experience for students in graduate programs leading to certification. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Students who are accepted into a program after the deadlines are requested to submit the application upon notification. 1 EDUC7420 Graduate Full Practicum / Initial License A semester-long, full-time, five day a week practicum experience for graduate students in early childhood, elementary and secondary education. The course is designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Educations requirements for endorsement from Boston College. Students will be guided by a qualified school-based mentor (Supervising Practitioner) and a university-based mentor (Program Supervisor). In addition to registering for the course, students must complete the online application (https://bc-us.inplacesoftware.com/student) during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Contact the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach at prac@bc.edu for more information. Department permission required after August/December 15. 6 Course Course Title Credit EDUC8100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to take a written comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 Learning Outcomes The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students by providing high-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing the student performance and growth data, using the data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an ongoing basis, and continuously refining learning objectives. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, and demonstrates cultural proficiency. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice. The teacher candidate will demonstrate an inquiry stance by collecting and reporting data on pupil outcomes for the purpose of assessing, teaching, and modifying instructional practice. The teacher candidate will identify policies and practices that contribute to systemic inequities in education and be aware of how his or her own background experiences are influenced by these systems, and recognizes a professional responsibility to promote and practice principles of social justice teaching. Student Teaching Professional experiences comprise early field experiences, referred to as pre-practicum placements, and an immersive, semester-long full practicum experience. Pre-practicum Graduate students complete a pre-practicum experience, which consists of one school day per week for 10 weeks. Full Practicum Full-practicum Experience is five days each week in the classroom for the entire semester. Support You are guided by a qualified school-based mentor and a university-based mentor Licensure Designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education's (DESE) requirements for endorsement from Boston College, leading to licensure. Variety of Settings Experience a range of urban and suburban public, private, parochial, and charter schools in Greater Boston Accreditation We are an approved teacher preparation program by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. LSEHD Licensure Disclosure Faculty View More View Less Financial Aid Education should level the playing field. We feel the same way about financial aid. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development provides more than $8.4 million in financial aid to students each year. As a result, the quality of BC’s instruction, the benefit of our alumni network, and the impact a BC degree will have on your employment options is both affordable and invaluable. More About Financial Aid Careers Roles Assistant Principal of Academics Fourth Grade Teacher Sixth Grade Teacher High School History Teacher Director of Exhibits Court Procedures Attorney First Grade Teacher Special Education Teacher Mathematics Instructor School Principal & ELL Coordinator Organizations St. John's Preparatory School Littleton Public Schools Papillion La Vista School District Concord-Carlisle Regional School District Museum of Science Goodwin Procter LLP Boston Public Schools Needham Public Schools Steppingstone Foundation North Attleborough Public Schools Apply Apply Print Application & Deadlines Apply Now A non-refundable application fee of $75 is required; however, this fee is waived for select applicants. Deadlines Fall Regular Decision — 1/6 Rolling Admission — Until 7/15 Intl. Applicants — Until 7/1 Spring Regular Decision — 11/1 Summer Regular Decision — 4/1 Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online Application Form. Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants may submit one additional recommendation of their choice. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. In the event that one is admitted into a program and enrolls, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at GSOE@BC.EDU. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests Submitting GRE test scores is optional and not required for 2022 entry term(s). If you wish to send GRE scores, the Lynch School GRE code is 3218. Writing Sample Not required. International Students International applicants are encouraged to apply to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Requirements for International Students Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Contact Us gsoe@bc.edu 617-552-4214 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College