Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Research & Innovation Research & Innovation With more than $1.1 billion in annual R&D expenditures, Penn is one of the nation’s top research universities, not only generating important new knowledge in the fields of medicine, technology, business, science, and beyond, but applying this knowledge to improve the lives of individuals and communities at home and around the world. Innovative research that yields actionable knowledge is one of the cornerstones of Penn's vision for the future of the University. Close Modal View Transcript Play video in modal window An Ecosystem of Innovation Today, Penn, the same research enterprise that created ENIAC in the late 1940s, the world’s first all-electronic computer, is booming. Top researchers provide imagination and creativity. Penn provides the cutting-edge resources and infrastructure. This leads to novel inventions that hold promise to change the world. Research Facts 182 research centers & institutes $1.1B 2021 research budget 5,000+ research faculty Office of the Vice Provost for Research The Vice Provost for Research is an adviser to the Provost and has oversight of the University’s vast research enterprise, encompassing a broad spectrum of research support services, regulatory bodies, multi-disciplinary campus-wide Centers and Institutes, and partnerships to further develop investigator inventions. OVPR collaborates with Penn constituents and external partners to promote meaningful scholarship, uphold research integrity, and foster new discoveries. Centers & Institutes The investigative collaborations that take place at Penn represent some of today’s most cutting-edge interdisciplinary research. Explore the centers and institutes that are generating new knowledge all over campus, and learn about the powerful impact this Penn-generated knowledge is making in all corners of the world. Compliance & Training OVPR is charged with oversight responsibility for multiple regulatory compliance areas at Penn. Given the breadth of regulations and guidelines, research compliance is a shared responsibility between numerous University offices. Funding OVPR manages a number of internal funding opportunities on behalf of the University as well as access to external funding opportunities. Research Excellence Initiative The Penn Research Excellence Initiative, spearheaded by OVPR, is a program that supports research credibility and integrity on Penn’s campus and across the Philadelphia region. Services For Researchers (Research Portal) Penn's Research Portal is a centralized compendium of University-wide research-related links. Contact Office for the Vice Provost for Research Suite 118 College Hall University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6376 Monday-Friday: 9am - 5pm Reporting Divisions Penn Center for Innovation Environmental Health and Radiation Safety Office of Research Services Institutional Review Board Office of Animal Welfare OVPR Committees Research Integrity Office University Laboratory Animal Resources Penn Center for Innovation PCI works in partnership with Penn faculty, staff, and students to advance scientific breakthroughs and technological advances toward new products, services, and/or businesses that provide benefits back to Penn, its inventors, and society. Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships CURF supports students as they pursue transformative experiences through fellowships, scholars programs, and undergraduate research. CURF promotes connections between faculty and students, encourages mentorship, and educates the Penn community about opportunities. Annual Research Digest Research at Penn As one of the top research universities in the world, Penn generates important new knowledge in medicine, technology, business, social science, humanities, and beyond, and applies this knowledge to improve the lives of individuals and communities at home and around the globe. Research at Penn is an annual publication that highlights some of the groundbreaking and innovative research happening across the University’s 12 schools. Download the PDF Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top