Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Mind What Matters Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Mind What Matters Two of the most common crimes on the University of Cincinnati campus are theft and burglary, which tend to increase at the beginning of the school year as students return to campus. The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department works hard to protect our students, faculty and staff, however, you can take simple steps to reduce your risk. Please see the information below. Do not leave your belongings unattended It only takes a moment for someone to steal your laptop when you step away to go to the restroom or to grab your cell phone when your back is turned. Always take all your belongings with you when you go somewhere else and never turn away from your belongings. Do not leave your valuables in plain view If you plan to leave any items in your vehicle, even a phone charger or loose change, hide the items before you get to your destination. If you live on the ground floor, or your window is easily visible, do not leave expensive items in view. Lock before you leave Never leave your car, office, house, apartment or dorm room unlocked for any length of time. Running inside from your car to grab something? Turn off and lock your car. Want to warm up your car in the winter? Stay inside while it warms up, don't leave it unoccupied and running. Walking down the hall to the restroom? Lock your office or dorm room. It doesn't take long for a thief to sneak in and out of a room. Pay attention Being aware of your surroundings can make a difference. Do not walk with your headphones in both ears or while focused on your cell phone, and walk in groups whenever possible. Utilize resources such as NightRide for a safe, nighttime shuttle service and Bearcat Guardian for the safety timer, chat feature and more. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top