Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Essential Resources » Healthcare and Insurance Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Healthcare and Insurance Discover the resources you have to stay healthy while you at at the University of Cincinnati. Learn the UC and U.S. government requirements for health insurance. The U.S. healthcare system is different from national healthcare systems many global students are used to. A network of healthcare providers—physicians, hospitals, pharmacies, psychological and psychiatric services, etc.—supply medical care and bill individuals and their insurance companies. Individuals are usually responsible for a standard upfront cost (co-pay), a certain annual minimum before the insurance coverage begins (deductible) and a percentage of large expenses over the course of a lifetime. There is a very wide variety among insurance plans, as well as wide variations about which providers and services each plan will cover. To help make sure that you do not incur unmanageable healthcare expenses, UC has put in place standard requirements for insurance coverage on top of the requirements mandated by the U.S. government for all international students. UC students are eligible to receive healthcare through University Health Services and Counseling and Psychological Services. Healthcare for students Remember, the emergency phone number for medical help in the U.S. is 911. If you call from a mobile phone, you will need to tell the operator where you are. If possible, have someone call UC Public Safety at 513-556-1111 at the same time to help route emergency medical services. University Health Service right arrow down arrow University Health Services has two campus locations and a pharmacy and is the home of UC Student Health Insurance. Registered students of the University of Cincinnati may be seen at University Health Services (UHS). Employees of the University of Cincinnati can be seen for work related injury and employee health services. Appointments are required. University Health Services provides primary care services, women’s health, dermatology, mental health services, preventative health care, health education, and wellness promotion. Additional services include a pharmacy, x-ray, and laboratory services. University Health Services is open daily during the week. There is also a doctor on call 24 hours a day to advise you if you have an emergency when the Campus Health Center is closed. Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) right arrow down arrow Counseling and Psychological Services is available 24/7, and most of their services are free. At UC Blue Ash, Counseling Services and at UC Clermont, the Compass Counseling Center provide similar services. Health insurance requirements All international students at the University of Cincinnati are required to carry the UC Student Health Insurance policy unless You can prove coverage equal to or greater than the policy (see Waiving insurance) You do not meet minimum credit hours or other eligibility requirements to qualify for the policy, as listed on the health insurance website (see Requirements by visa type for alternatives) Foreign-based policies will not be accepted. Insurance fees will be included on your tuition bill as soon as you register. You are responsible for paying this fee each semester you are registered. If at any time while you registered for classes, you change your F or J Visa status, register for classes from outside the United States, or transfer to another institution, you must contact the UC Student Health Insurance office immediately. Failure to do so means you must reimburse UC for your insurance premium. Check the health insurance website for information on eligibility (required credit hours, dependent eligibility, etc.), enrollment forms and current fees. If you do not meet eligibility requirements, see additional information under Requirements by visa type. Healthcare and Insurance Waiving insurance You are encouraged to carefully review policies with your parents or partner if you are covered under someone else's insurance. If you are currently enrolled in a health insurance plan that is equal to or better than the UC Student Health Insurance policy, you may waive UC Student Health Insurance by submitting an online waiver. All waivers must be received by the deadlines listed on the UC Student Health Insurance website. Requirements by visa type All international visitors, whether studying, working, or collaborating on activities with the University of Cincinnati, are required to have health insurance coverage while in the U.S. F-1 students and J-1 exchange visitors must meet Department of State requirements for health insurance coverage; in most circumstances, students must also meet university requirements. All other visitors are subject to coverage based on The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act - ACA). It is your responsibility to understand your health insurance requirements and comply accordingly. This information by visa type will help you understand the requirements and provide options you can pursue. F-1 & J-1 students right arrow down arrow All international students are required to carry the University of Cincinnati Student Health Insurance policy unless they can prove coverage equal to or greater than the University policy. If you do not meet eligibility requirements for student health insurance, you must still have insurance while in the United States. If necessary, you can obtain health insurance coverage from the Health Insurance Marketplace, sometimes known as the health insurance “exchange” as part of the Affordable Care Act or from one of the insurance companies listed under Other insurance plans. Note: Those policies below will not qualify eligible students for a waiver of the UC Student Health Insurance policy. They are strictly provided as an option for students who don't qualify for the UC policy but still need insurance. J-1 scholars right arrow down arrow All J-1 Exchange Visitors (and dependents) are required to have health insurance that meets Department of State Requirements. Such requirements include: medical benefits of at least $100,000 per accident or illness; repatriation of remains in the amount of $25,000; medical evacuation to the home country in the amount of $50,000; a deductible not to exceed $500 per accident or illness. The insurance policy must be underwritten by an insurance corporation having: an A.M. Best rating of 'A' or above, an Insurance Solvency International, Ltd. (ISI) rating of 'A-1' or above, a Standard & Poor’s Claims-paying ability rating of 'A-' or above, OR a Weiss Research, Inc. rating of B+ or above. Insurance coverage backed by the full faith and credit of the government of the exchange visitor’s home country shall be deemed to meet this requirement. If your medical appointment is not covered by University of Cincinnati medical benefits or the student health insurance plan, you will be required to provide UC International Services with proof of insurance that meets the requirements upon arrival. Failure to produce such proof of insurance will result in the termination of your J-1 Exchange Visitor Program. Employees of Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center must purchase additional coverage for medical evacuation and repatriation of remains. The CCHMC Humana Select insurance plan does not include these benefits. If needed, you can obtain health insurance coverage from one of the insurance companies listed under the Other insurance plans. The Health Insurance Marketplace, sometimes known as the health insurance “exchange” as part of the Affordable Care Act, does not meet all the requirements for insurance for J-1 exchange visitors. Other international visitors right arrow down arrow The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act - ACA) requires individuals who do not maintain “minimum essential healthcare coverage” to make an additional payment to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) when they pay their taxes, unless they are exempt. The “individual shared responsibility” provision of this act can be avoided if you enroll in a compliant plan by the date stipulated for the current tax year. Students and employees covered by the UC Student Health Insurance Plan or by employee benefits are enrolled in a compliant plan and do not need to worry about ACA. All other international visitors, which could include students who do not qualify for the UC Student Health Insurance Plan and nonimmigrant visa holders who are not UC employees must enroll in a compliant plan or make additional payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) unless exempt. Whether or not you must carry ACA-compliant insurance or pay the tax penalty for not carrying it is determined by your residency status for tax purposes. Determining your tax residency status can be difficult, but generally F-1 and J-1 students are considered to be non-resident aliens for tax purposes for the first 5 years in the U.S. J-1 scholars are considered non-resident aliens for tax purposes for the first two years in the U.S. All others are generally considered resident aliens for tax purposes if physically present in the United States on at least 31 days during the current year, and 183 days during the 3-year period that includes the current year and the 2 years immediately before that, counting: All the days you were present in the current year, and 1/3 of the days you were present in the first year before the current year, and 1/6 of the days you were present in the second year before the current year. Being subject to the individual mandate is a separate issue from whether you are eligible to participate in the Health Insurance Marketplace. In most cases, a lawfully present nonimmigrant who is exempt from the individual mandate still qualifies for marketplace coverage through the State exchanges if desired The Health Insurance Marketplace website lists immigration statuses that qualify for marketplace coverage. Other insurance plans right arrow down arrow These are some additional options for insurance coverage available to you. The Harbour Group, L.L.C. HTH Worldwide Insurance Services T.W. Lord & Associates Toll Free: 1-800-633-2360 Tel: 1-770-427-2461 Fax: 1-770-429-0638 25 Dodd Street P.O. Box 1185 Marietta, GA 30061 Compass Student Health Insurance Betins International Health and Travel Insurance International SOS Assistance, Inc. (for medical evacuation and repatriation of remains only) Cultural Insurance Services International (CISI) INSUBUY ISO Student Health Insurance International Student Insurance TaiAn Financial LLC English | 317-318-8259 Chinese | 317-318-8258 International Medical Group® Telephone: 1.317.655.4500 or 1.800.628.4664 Fax: 1.317.655.4505 insurance@imglobal.com Seven Corners, Inc. Toll Free: 1.800.335.0611 Collect: 0.317.575.2652 CS@sevencorners.com UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top