Skip to main content COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn how Pitt is building a healthy and resilient community. About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics open search open menu Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Highlights Highlights Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Life at PITT Bring your sense of adventure to a new world of opportunity. Set up for Success Whatever your aspirations, you can pursue them at Pitt. You’ll find mentors to encourage you and extracurricular activities and internship opportunities that excite you. Our campus is a place where the energy of progress and pride in tradition meet. With all the support students receive, you’ll be prepared for career achievement, well-being, and a great life. So Many Opportunities Find details on Pitt student organizations, student government and media, and leadership and volunteer opportunities. Learn more Expand Tile 600+ Student Organizations 600+ Student Organizations Whatever your extracurricular interests, you'll find other Pitt students to share them with. Expand Tile Top 20 Public University Top 20 Public University The University is ranked No. 19 in the U.S. News & World Report 2021 Top Public Schools in the nation. Expand Tile 15% of '24 class from Under-represented Groups 15% of '24 class from Under-represented Groups Pitt is committed to maintaining a diverse, equitable and just university community. Expand Tile Five Stars Campus Pride Index Five Stars Campus Pride Index The Pride Index is an indicator of overall commitment to LGBTQ+ inclusive policy, program and practice. Expand Tile 84% Complete Internships 84% Complete Internships From corporate headquarters to Hollywood to the White House, Pitt interns gain invaluable, real-world experience. Expand Tile 342,083+ Global Alumni 342,083+ Global Alumni Pitt alumni pursue countless professions around the world. Learn more Explore Campus Schedule a campus visit or view an online tour of Pitt academic buildings, residence halls, and student gathering spots. Schedule a Visit Online Tour Cool Pittsburgh Where to Live Pitt offers a wide range of housing options. Our residence halls featuring online network access, study and recreation lounges, fitness centers, coffee carts, and special academic communities. Campus Housing Off-Campus Living Dining What to Do Check out the PITT ARTS program (which offers discounted tickets and unique arts experiences), Cool Pittsburgh, and event calendars to see what’s happening on campus and nearby. Pitt Program Council University Events Calendar Dive deeper into Life at Pitt: Student Organizations Health & Safety Arts & Culture Community Service Catalog of Opportunities STUDENT LIFE Student Affairs Our wide-ranging programming helps students to realize their best selves: an appreciation of the arts, a lifelong commitment to service, and a dedication to holistic health. Slide 1 Student Affairs Departments Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube