Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × One Community Tigers of All Stripes Connect with your fellow students and alumni across shared interests and differences, from your faith and values to your cultural identity and favorite sports. Lifelong Connections Friendships & Memories to Last a Lifetime Students come to the University from all over the world. By the time they leave, they are Princetonians who have learned and grown personally and intellectually, and who have developed deep bonds that keep them coming back to campus for the rest of their lives. Learn More Student Life Most Princeton students live on campus, and they eat, study, serve, work, play, pray and relax here too. The University has many programs in place to support your interests and help you feel at home. Learn More Student venture provides English language education in India . Princeton students Kasturi Shah and Vaasvi Goyal founded Hello, Seekho, a phone-based English language learning service in India, during their sophomore year. Learn More Graduate students live and learn with undergrads . The vibrant intellectual and social life within each residential college includes a network of undergraduate and graduate students, faculty fellows and staff. Learn More Arts & Culture At Princeton, the arts shine across campus. Let your imagination soar, explore and create. Learn More Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday Jun 2 8:00 p.m. The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Wallace Dance & Theater Jun 3 7:30 p.m. Princeton-based actors & Program in Theater guest artists Katharine Powell, Vivia Font, and Ben Steinfeld share an actor-led investigation of "Old Times,"… Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Wallace Dance & Theater Jun 4 2:00 p.m. Princeton-based actors & Program in Theater guest artists Katharine Powell, Vivia Font, and Ben Steinfeld share an actor-led investigation of "Old Times,"… Athletics As an NCAA Division I school and a member of the Ivy League, Princeton student-athletes perform at a high-level inside and outside the classroom. Learn More Varsity Teams . Princeton has one of the largest and most successful athletic programs in the NCAA Division I and the Ivy League. About 18 percent of undergraduates participate in varsity sports, spanning 37 teams. Learn More Princeton Athletic Ticket Office . Attend a sporting event and cheer on the Tigers to victory. Learn More Campus Recreation . Campus Recreation offers a range of fitness and wellness opportunities for students including intramural sports, club sports, instructional programming and a fitness center. Learn More Living in Princeton, N.J. Tree-lined streets, specialty shops, restaurants, parks and a friendly and safe atmosphere all make Princeton a wonderful place to spend time in. Learn More Housing & Dining Most undergraduate and graduate students live on campus, and the University offers a variety of housing and dining options. Learn More Activities & Organizations With more than 300 student organizations, there is something for everyone to pursue their interests outside the classroom. Learn More Cultural & Affinity Groups Students explore their own cultures and learn from each other through student centers and groups. Learn More Health & Wellness Princeton strives to create an environment that enhances the health and well-being of all who study and work at the University. Health and wellness services include comprehensive counseling, fitness and medical services. Learn More Religious Life Many faith communities thrive on campus. Individuals can practice and explore their faith, get spiritual counseling, and participate in interfaith activities such as meditation and civic engagement. Learn More Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ Community Action participants work at the Farminary program in Lawrenceville, New Jersey. Princeton students volunteer with Habitat for Humanity during Community Action. Princeton students share what they're learning about political theory with students at the STEM to Civics Charter School in Ewing, New Jersey. Serving the Public Good Learn More Service is infused in the lives of Princetonians — students engage in service activities beginning with Orientation, faculty partner with nonprofit organizations to study a societal issue in their research or through a class, employees volunteer with local organizations, and alumni often dedicate their lives to service. Get Involved in Service Pace Center for Civic Engagement Community-Based Learning Initiative Civic Engagement for Graduate Students Faculty and Staff Outreach Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ Families Learn More When a student enrolls at Princeton, their family becomes part of our community too. Families can take part in campus activities and in alumni programs across the globe. Helpful Information Families Handbook Freshman Families Weekend Princeton Parents Facebook Page One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice