Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory English Department English at Brown English at Brown We study how literature works, how we understand it, and how we write about it. We examine closely matters of language, form, genre, and critical method. We invite you to new practices of reading and writing that promote the understanding of literatures and cultures in English through history, criticism, and theory. We are committed to the understanding of literature from a transnational perspective, emphasizing the movement of texts and peoples across borders of nation, race, gender, and sexuality, now and in the past. And we encourage students to commit themselves to the creation of original knowledge in their reading and writing. One of the largest humanities concentrations at Brown, English provides a strong foundation for a liberal education and for work in many sectors of employment, especially in the many areas where new media creates demand for transformative writing: the press, publishing, advertising, visual media, public relations, public service, teaching, finance, government, corporate research and administration. English concentrators routinely go on to law, medical, and professional schools as well as to graduate education in literature and the arts. Home Faculty Office Hours Undergraduate English for First-Years Nonfiction for First-Years Concentration Concentration Advisors Concentration FAQs Honors in English Honors in Nonfiction Writing English DUG Alumni Survey Prizes Recent Recipients Graduate Nonfiction Writing Program Courses Contact Us Media Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1852 70 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2393 Fax 401-863-7412 English Events There are currently no events to display. View events archive. View Full Calendar Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Helpful Links Graduate School Literary Arts Banner Course Listings Course Preview Pages