Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Office of Medical Education Curriculum Phase I Curriculum, Years One and Two Phase II Curriculum, Year Three Phase II Curriculum, Year Four Teaching & Research Technology Facilities & Resources Academy of Medical Educators About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office of Medical Education Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office of Medical Education Curriculum Curriculum Phase I Curriculum, Years One and Two Phase II Curriculum, Year Three Phase II Curriculum, Year Four Teaching & Research Teaching & Research Assessment & Evaluation Scholarship & Research in Medical Education Medical Alumni Innovative Teaching Fund (MAITF) Office of Rural Medical Education Technology Technology Student Technology Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Applications Guides & Tutorials Technology Recommendations Facilities & Resources Facilities & Resources Clinical Skills Lab Gross Anatomy Lab Willed Body Program Academy of Medical Educators Academy of Medical Educators Organization and Structure Membership Resources Medical Education Research Interest Group Medical Education Innovations Mentored Award Program About About Personnel Publications and Presentations Curriculum KU School of Medicine Curriculum Phase I Curriculum, Years One and Two Phase II Curriculum, Year Three Phase II Curriculum, Year Four Phase I Overview The Phase I curriculum consists of nine blocks that comprise year one and year two of the four-year medical school program. These blocks integrate core basic science disciplines including anatomy, biochemistry, histology, microbiology, neuroscience, pathology, pharmacology, and physiology as well as basic clinical skills, preventive medicine, ethics, behavioral sciences, and other topics relevant to clinical practice. Phase II Overview In year three, students take required clerkships in core clinical disciplines: Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Neurology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pediatrics, Psychiatry and Surgery. Also in year 3, students take Issues in Clinical Medicine. During year four, students complete additional required clerkships and courses (Rural Preceptorship, Critical Care, Health of the Public, Subinternship) and electives. Credit hours for required courses, clerkships, and electives are listed below. Phase III Overview The fourth-year curriculum allows students to design a personalized course of study. The selectives enable students to make choices about their courses, but these choices must include a selection in the following specific areas of study: rural medicine, critical care, health of the public, and a sub-internship. Graduation Competencies The objectives and their corresponding competencies serve as a guide for curriculum development and evaluation of the success of the medical education program: ACE Curriculum KU School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center KU School of Medicine Office of Medical Education Mailstop 1049 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City KS 66160 Phone: 913-588-7200 Fax: 913-588-7235 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.