skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About us Our team Initiatives Presidential Diversity and Inclusion Task Force Diversity & Inclusion Award Hate & Bias Response Team NSHE Initiatives Neurodiversity Alliance Bylaws Dialogue, Equity & Democracy Diversity Committees Alianza Donate to Alianza Scholarship Fund Alianza members #BlackAtThePack Committee on the Status of Women Lactation Advocacy Subcommittee Cultural Diversity Committee 2022 Northern Nevada Diversity Summit Diversity Summit schedule Queer and LGBT Advocacy Board SafeZone Ally Workshop Pride University Disability Advocacy Committee Work, Life and Family Council Parenting Elder care Health and wellness FMLA Information Domestic partnership benefits Human Resources Education & training Implicit Bias Search Committee Training Campus resources Diversity awareness calendar Diversity in academics Suggested language for course syllabi Equal Opportunity & Title IX Apply Visit News Give Diversity & Inclusion Democratic Civic Engagement About us Our team Initiatives Presidential Diversity and Inclusion Task Force Diversity & Inclusion Award Hate & Bias Response Team NSHE Initiatives Neurodiversity Alliance Dialogue, Equity & Democracy Diversity Committees Alianza #BlackAtThePack Committee on the Status of Women Cultural Diversity Committee Queer and LGBT Advocacy Board University Disability Advocacy Committee Work, Life and Family Council Education & training Implicit Bias Search Committee Training Campus resources Diversity awareness calendar Diversity in academics Equal Opportunity & Title IX "If I hid behind my mask, would they still see me?" Xueying Zheng, Jocelyn Simmons and S. Lucile Purnell delivered their award-winning speeches at the start of the 2022 Northern Nevada Diversity Summit Read Nevada Today article Northern Nevada Diversity Summit Work, Study, Family, and Life Balances in Higher Education: Advancing Best Practices in a Pandemic World The 2022 Northern Nevada Diversity Summit was held virtually. The summit offers attendees the opportunity to learn about new ideas and emerging and practices as well as network with campus and community leaders. This year's theme was voted by the Cultural Diversity Committee, in consideration of the ongoing and evolving challenges of the pandemic and its effects on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in higher education, as well as unresolved and historical racial and social justice demands. Given the focus on advancing “an ethic of care,” we are proud to announce that this year’s Summit will be dedicated to the work and legacy of bell hooks, the trailblazing scholar, author, social activist, and feminist, who dedicated so much of her efforts to those critically needed concerns and who passed away last December (who signed her name in lower case letters as a testimony of the importance of the work and not the author). View the Diversity Summit schedule We the Pack: Educating on Microaggressions - Ethnicity, Nationality and Gender As part of our educational efforts on diversity, equity, inclusion (DEI), as well our ongoing Dialogue, Equity and Democracy series, we are introducing this short video series. We have titled the series, We the Pack, understanding that notion of “we”, as a democratic we; in other words, the demos, the people. We also take that democratic identification of the people as magnificently diverse in multiple and intersectional dimensions, and therefore, facing different historical and enduring challenges. Our work Initiatives Our office is involved in a number of initiatives to promote diversity & inclusion on our campus, in our community and throughout the Nevada System of Higher Education. Committees and affinity groups Our office supports the work of the diversity, equity and inclusion committees and affinity groups in the campus community, promoting best practices and policy development. Education and training Our office develops workshops and trainings on diversity, equity and inclusion, including micro-aggression and implicit bias training, that are available to faculty, staff and students. Supporting LGBTQ+ Our students, faculty and staff are what make the University of Nevada, Reno a special place. Learn more about our LGBTQ+ community, their achievements, ground breaking research, social movement efforts and more. Nevada Pride Diversity and inclusion resources across the University The Multicultural Center The Multicultural Center provides programs and services that support the academic and social success for all students at the University of Nevada through advisement, leadership development, counseling, student organizations, outreach and intercultural programming. Counseling Services The mission of Counseling Services is to provide psychological services to University of Nevada, Reno students to support and facilitate their personal and academic success and development. Disability Resource Center The purpose of the Disability Resource Center (DRC) is to ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to participate in, contribute to, and benefit from all university programs. You can learn more about the University's commitment to accessibility. Equal Opportunity and Title IX Legal protections against discrimination, harassment, ADA and Title IX compliance for all University members, as well as support to undocumented and DACA students, are processed through the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX. Student Center for Engagement Working to engage, educate and empower undergraduate students to take action in the best interest of the student body and the University community. Veteran Services The Veteran Services Office is your liaison to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for veteran and veteran-related education benefits. More campus resources Voices from our University community Diversity gallery Diversity mural Opens a dialog Legacy of the greats Opens a dialog Preserving the Paiute language Opens a dialog Video From around the campus Undergraduate researcher and McNair Scholar reflects on impressive academic journey Experience in Undergraduate Research and McNair Scholars Program leads to NSF graduate fellowship award for CABNR student College of Liberal Arts celebrates extraordinary achievements The College of Liberal Arts recognized deserving individuals at annual awards ceremony On the 85 Anniversary of the Bombing of Gernika Criteria of Truth while General Franco’s lie about this event persists Healthy Minds Study: understanding mental health on campus The Healthy Minds Study survey was recently sent out to students and, for the first time, faculty and staff at the University – check your inbox! Black Lives Matter Today, this University stands in solidarity with its Black student leaders who have brought forward several action items in the “Listen to Us” platform that will make us a better institution for Black students, faculty and staff. University's commitment to action Land acknowledgement We acknowledge that the University of Nevada, Reno is situated on the traditional homelands of the Numu (Northern Paiute), Wašiw (Washoe), Newe (Western Shoshone), Nuwu (Southern Paiute) peoples. These lands continue to be a gathering place for Indigenous Peoples and we recognize their deep connections to these places. We extend our appreciation for the opportunity to live and learn on their territory. Office Contact Information Location: Ross Hall Room Number: 109 Mailing Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 Phone: (775) 682-6552 Directory: Office directory Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX