Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Women's Center right arrow down arrow Staff Leadership Trainings & Programs Community Building Signature Programs Stay Connected Gender-Based Violence Home » Campus Life » UC Women's Center » Leadership Trainings & Programs Leadership Trainings & Programs Women in Leadership & Learning (WILL) Women in Leadership & Learning is a one-year experiential co-curricular learning program for undergraduate women and gender non-conforming students at the University of Cincinnati. The mission of WILL is to build a community of leaders committed to intersectional feminism, gender equity, and social justice. WILL students develop leadership and creative problem-solving skills, build partnerships at UC and throughout the Cincinnati community, and develop facilitation skills for critical dialogues. Program Requirements Must be at least a rising second year student. Must complete two consecutive semesters of the program. Must complete a group or individual Community Action Project. Must participate in one-on-one sessions with the WILL facilitator each semester. Must complete an online portfolio that showcases stories and experiences with leadership, feminism, and social justice. Must attend one feminist/gender equity related campus or community event per semester. It is also highly encouraged students take the Intro to Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies course (WGS 2002) to attain a foundation understanding of intersectional feminism. Start Smart Salary Negotiation Training Learn how to research your target salary, highlight your accomplishments and find the right words — and the confidence — to negotiate for better benefits and pay. You can sign up for a free in-person workshop or online course, which takes less than two hours to complete and can be done at your own pace. Negotiating increases your potential to earn more — and can make the difference for paying off loans, supporting your family, buying what you want and need, and saving for the future. UC Women's Center 2801 UC Main Street 571 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221-0179 513-556-4401 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC Women's Center 2801 UC Main Street 571 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221-0179 513-556-4401 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top