Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Athlete Development Academic Athletic Personal/Career Development Service / SAAC Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action CAAS AAC NCAA GO Tigers GO Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Student Athlete Development UofM Student-Athlete Development Plan You play hard for us. We look out for you. Your dedication as a student-athlete is out of this world. The strenuous schedules. The road trips. The balancing act of athletics and academics. And somewhere in there you might want to have a social life, right? Our student-athletes carry a lot of weight on their shoulders, so Tiger PAWS (Preparing Athletes for Winning Success) looks out for you. No matter what it takes, we are always going to support you and guide your growth—personally and professionally. Through programming tailored with you in mind, we provide resources to be successful on the field/court/track, in the classroom and throughout life. We also prepare you well for life after college. PAWS goals are to: Focus on the development of the well-rounded student-athlete Pursue the enhancement of skills that apply beyond the classroom Develop student-athletes as responsible representatives and leaders Support student-athlete input on issues related to their continually changing needs Enhance programming offered through the Center for Athletic Academic Services (CAAS) four-years to become the best version of you as a student-athlete The Tiger PAWS Student-Athlete Development Plan is a four-year track that will help you balance school, sports, and your social life while showing you how to make time for community service, career development and mental development. As you work towards your degree, you can't lose sight of your total well being. We help our student-athletes grow and learn on and off the field. When it comes time to show up (and show out) for graduation, you'll look back at all you've done in pride and have a better understanding of yourself and your future. Please contact the Student-Athlete Development Coordinator with any questions. Center for Athletic Academic Services (CAAS): Katie Woodruff, PAWS Coordinator/Academic Counselor 713 Wilder Tower / 901.678.2738 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/8/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.