Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Baylor Law Announces Law Schools Participating in Top Gun XIII May 3, 2022 Baylor Law Announces Law Schools Participating in Top Gun XIII WACO, Texas - Law students from the best trial advocacy programs in the country will travel to Waco June 1-5 to take part in Baylor Law’s thirteenth annual National Top Gun Mock Trial Competition. The invitation-only, winner-takes-all contest is the nation's most prestigious and intense mock trial competition. Top Gun XIII is unlike any other mock trial competition. The competition is limited to just 16 law schools with only one student, instead of the typical two representing each school. Most distinctively, participants will not receive the case details they will argue until a mere 24 hours before the competition begins, and one winner will take home the $10,000.00 prize. Top Gun XIII is generously sponsored by MG+M The Law Firm, a national litigation and trial-focused firm with more than 100 trial-tested attorneys across its 13 offices. Representatives from MG+M will be on-site during the competition in June to witness first-hand the advocacy skills of the 16 most accomplished trial advocacy students in the country. Baylor Law, as the organizing institution, does not field a team. The student advocates that will represent their law schools will be announced in May. Schools participating in Top Gun XIII are: American University Washington College of Law Campbell University Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law Chicago-Kent College of Law Drexel University Thomas R. Kline School of Law Fordham University School of Law Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Quinnipiac University School of Law Samford University Cumberland School of Law Stetson University College of Law South Texas College of Law Houston Temple University Beasley School of Law UCLA School of Law University of California Berkeley School of Law University of Denver Sturm College of Law University of Georgia School of Law University of South Carolina School of Law "Every year, we strive to provide a problem that challenges the best mock trial competitors in the country," said Robert Little, Baylor Law's Director of Advocacy Programs. "Top Gun XIII gives student advocates the chance to face the very best of their peers in the courtroom after having just twenty-four hours to analyze a detailed and complicated case file and prepare that case for trial." “We are especially excited this year about MG+M The Law Firm, sponsoring Top Gun for the first time,” Little added. “MG+M focuses on trying cases and producing trial lawyers, and they are coming to Top Gun to watch some of the best trial advocacy schools and students from around the country compete.” Top Gun XIII kicks off the evening of Wednesday, June 1, when competitors attend orientation and a welcome dinner. Early Thursday morning, competitors will receive their case file. Preliminary rounds start on Friday morning and are held throughout the day on Friday and Saturday. The semifinal round will be held at 9 a.m. Sunday. The 'title match,' the final round of Top Gun XIII, will begin at 2 p.m. on Sunday, June 5 and will be streamed live at https://www.baylor.edu/law/live. MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,600 living alumni. Accredited by the American Bar Association and a member of the Association of American Law Schools, Baylor Law has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. Baylor Law boasts among its notable alumni two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court, and members of the Texas Legislature. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law’s trial advocacy program as among the best in the nation at No. 2. The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the “Best School for Practical Training” and No. 4 in the nation in its most recent “Best Law School Facilities” listing. Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since its inception in 1984. Learn more at baylor.edu/law ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 17,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School