Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Register for a Complimentary Online Course College Prep Learn more about academic preparedness in a university setting. If you're interested in completing your degree online but aren't sure how the online format works, this is a fun, no-risk introduction for you. Enroll in the course > Adulting 101: A Practical Guide to Managing Your Resources Explore values, goals and resources necessary for individuals and families to make balanced and informed decisions throughout the life span on topics including: insurance, housing, mortgage, retirement, debt, taxes, transportation, savings and investing. If you're interested in completing your degree online but aren't sure how the online format works, this is a fun, no-risk introduction for you with valuable life skills. Enroll in the course > Nutrition 101 Explore and understand the study of nutrients both at a micronutrient and macronutrient level. This course will not only help you understand the basic foundations of nutrition but will also help you learn how it applies as a consumer throughout the entire life cycle. Other topics include meal planning, digestion, how fitness applies to nutrition, disease prevention and hunger in the environment. Please note: there is a required text for purchase in this course. Enroll in the course > Wellness 101 Explore ways for achieving optimal health and well-being, learn how to take personal responsibility for your health through the adoption and maintenance of healthy behaviors, while recognizing the important influences of culture, society, community and policy. Please note: there is a required text for purchase in this course. Enroll in the course > *Must be a minimum of 17 years of age to register for the courses Upon completion of a complimentary course and enrollment at the University of Memphis, you can apply for three credit hours of Experiential Learning Credit (ELC), which is the equivalent of one class, at a cost of only $75 per credit hour. For more information or technical assistance, please contact uofmglobal@memphis.edu. About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.