Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Outreach Prospective Students Current Students PEER & WISE Empowering Future Leaders Growth. Enrichment. PEER and WISE are dedicated to increasing diversity in science and engineering by addressing and assisting students in technical majors. We offer mentoring, guidance, counseling, and tutoring. In addition, the programs provide career development and networking opportunities by pairing students with successful people in their classes and the workforce. These personal contacts can not only furnish tremendous support while pursuing studies, but they establish a network upon which to call when launching a career. Quick Links Tutoring Promote Events ★ Mentoring Program Give to PEER/WISE Life-Coaching Study Aids Our Impact Jobs and Opportunities Wednesday May 18, 2022 The Clemson University Mechanical Engineering Student Shop is open to all students regardless of major. The Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic (PPDC) in the Department of Plant Industry at Clemson University is seeking two Summer Lab Assistants: A Graduate Diagnostic Assistant and an Undergraduate Lab/Office Assistant. Scholarship Opportunities Wednesday May 18, 2022 The Women in Defense Palmetto Chapter is now accepting applications for our STEM scholarship. The Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Scholarship was established in 1939, as a memorial to Charles LeGeyt, in recognition of his valuable contributions to the field of electrical engineering. Student Spotlight: Our Seniors Monday May 09, 2022 Dear seniors, The PEER&WISE community would just like to take a moment to not only thank you for all you […] More News Profiles in Community Follow Clemson PEER & WISE Spotlight News PEER 30th Anniversary and Moving Beyond the Glass Ceiling - Stained Glass Award Clemson, Duke Energy Partner to Bring Mobile Lab to SC Middle Schools It’s A Girl Thing - Serita Acker There are many career opportunities available in the fields of engineering, science, and mathematics for women. Early exposure is vital, so we must enlighten girls on what these careers entail. Women deserve a seat at every table in every profession. Check out this book by our very own Serita Acker. Purchase Book Connections Clemson Ranks 13th in Diverse Issues in Higher Education “Our rise in these rankings is a reflection of the hard work being done by many in the college and across the university to enroll and graduate an increasingly high-quality, diverse student body,” Clemson President James P. Clements said. “In order for U.S. industry to remain a global innovation leader, universities must graduate more engineers, including more minority and women engineers. Clemson is committed to addressing this national challenge through programs such as PEER.” Top News May 04 ‘Mama Lisa’ is a Clemson University masterpiece Read More Apr 07 Student government president-elect Malik Balogun wants every student to feel part of the Clemson Family Read More Nov 30 ‘Unsung heroes’ win awards from the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Read More Oct 22 Industry investment: Support continues growing for Clemson’s nationally recognized diversity and inclusion programming Read More Copyright © Clemson University PEER & WISE | 158 Freeman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-0976 | Email Us