Potential Exposure to Coronavirus - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 Guidelines & Protocols Potential Exposure to Coronavirus Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Campus Cleaning & Safety Practices Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu Potential Exposure to Coronavirus Community exposure that could necessitate self-quarantine include the following: You have had “close contact” with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19, and with respect to that person you were within 6 feet of an infected person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period. Consider time spent with someone with COVID-19 starting 2 days before the infected person developed symptoms, or the date they were tested if they do not have symptoms, until started isolation. You have returned from international travel and are NOT up to date with your COVID-19 vaccines If you have had potential exposure to COVID-19, you should refer to the Quarantine guidelines to determine whether a quarantine period is required. If quarantine is required: Complete the form Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Employees should contact their supervisor Do not return to campus until Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation. For information regarding staff temporary remote work guidelines due to a solely COVID-19 related reason, visit the UH Human Resources website Note: None of the above actions are necessary if one of the following apply: You are up-to-date with vaccination You had confirmed COVID-19 within the last 90 days (you tested positive using a viral test). However, in such an event, CDC guidance recommends that you: Wear a mask around others for 10 days. Test on day 5, if possible. If you develop symptoms get a test and stay home. If at any time your COVID-19 test result is positive, you must follow the protocols for a positive COVID-19 Diagnosis. Returning to Campus See Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation for when the self-quarantine/isolation will end and what is required before the UH community member is allowed to return to work/class/activities on campus. Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies