Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Hospitality and Tourism Serving Florida’s Top Travel Destination Skip to Section Award-Winning Leader in Hotel Management Known as the hospitality capital of the world, Orlando is a top destination — both for tourists and hospitality education. Home to the No. 1 hospitality and tourism program in the nation, UCF provides the first-hand experience and knowledge students need to succeed in this fast-paced industry. Hitting a historic milestone of 75 million annual visitors in 2018, the Central Florida community sees a regional economic impact of $75.2 billion in revenue generated by our tourism industry. From parks and recreation to renovating schools and technology to building top-tier venues, tourism revenue has a big impact on the region. Top Destination in the U.S. More than just world-class attractions, a number of factors have played a role in Orlando becoming a tourism powerhouse. The busiest passenger airport in Florida, Orlando International Airport saw 47.7 million airline passengers in 2018. With a new terminal slated to open in late 2021, this number will continue to surge. Also home to the second largest convention center in the U.S., the Orange County Convention Center hosted 108 conventions and tradeshows in 2018, welcoming over 1 million attendees. After its current expansion, the convention center will offer an additional 200,000 square feet of exhibit space. The Key to Hospitality Education With major growth also comes the demand for a hospitality management workforce that provides quality service. In a fast, ever-evolving industry like hospitality, it is all about service. Finding ways to put a smile on someone’s face — providing those once-in-a-lifetime memories. And what better opportunity than learning from the best to become one of the best? As one of the top five institutions for hospitality education and research, UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management is committed to offering unparalleled opportunities for today’s students and tomorrow’s leaders. No. 1 Hospitality School in Florida UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management provides an environment to learn and work in the industry’s leading market. Uniquely positioned in the center of it all, students get hands-on experience from faculty — many of whom are internationally recognized experts in hospitality management and bring years of experience to the classroom. The college also boasts neighbors such as Walt Disney World Resort, Sea World Adventure Park, top hotels on International Drive, and the Orange County Convention Center. Many of these offer excellent internship opportunities for students to apply what they have learned first-hand and see their work in action. In addition to the university’s ties within the industry, hospitality students aid their own cause by hosting a career fair each semester. Putting their knowledge to good use, they handle every aspect of the event — marketing, décor, theme and even the lunch menu. From guest speakers and networking opportunities to memberships and internships, the Rosen College of Hospitality Management stimulates successful careers in this exciting and booming industry. 5 Ranked in the top 5 among best colleges for hospitality and tourism in the world by CEOWorld magazine and in the ShanghaiRankings for research. 97% Placement rate upon graduation — working for top industry employers, including Disney, Universal, Hilton, Marriott, as well as high-end restaurants around the area. $225,000 In scholarships awarded annually to provide students with access to affordable hospitality education. #1 Online master’s in hospitality management in the nation by BestColleges. 1st In Florida to create a stand-alone PhD program in Hospitality Management. 21 Countries part of the international exchange program, including Austria, Australia, Japan, China, Japan, Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom. The History of Rosen College When the UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management opened its doors on January 5, 2004, the future of hospitality education changed forever. Today it’s considered one of the finest hospitality programs in the world, but to get here, we recognize those who made it happen through an unwavering commitment to helping future generations of hospitality and tourism leaders. Rosen College became a reality due in large part to the generosity of local hotelier Harris Rosen. “I was having lunch with UCF Professor Abe Pizam, and I told him, ‘One day Abe, I will build you a new school,’ ” Rosen describes. Five years later, he made good on that promise, pledging $10 million in cash and 20 acres of property at his new resort, Rosen Shingle Creek. Rosen and his team were invited to help design the building, ensuring that it was truly the best of the best. Its location in the heart of Orlando’s tourism corridor has led to many synergistic partnerships with community and industry organizations, and graduates have benefitted from both exceptional education opportunities and real‐world industry experience and connections. The campus now bustles with more than 3,5000 students and a renowned faculty composed of both distinguished academics and successful business leaders. And with more innovations in the works — from campus additions and improvements to new degree programs to overseas partnerships — the future is truly looking bright. Learn more about Harris Rosen’s impact. Keeping Blue Paradise in the Caribbean Bonaire, a small island in the West Caribbean, depends on its natural beauty for its livelihood. And with the work of researchers at Rosen College of Hospitality Management, the island is well on its way to preserving its beauty and safeguarding its economy future. Professors at Rosen’s Dick Pope Sr. Institute for Tourism Studies worked with the government of Bonaire to create a Strategic Tourism Masterplan — outlining objectives to achieve environmental and economic goals from 2017-2027. Under the plan, Bonaire is expected to invest $150 million into its economy to generate 2,400 new jobs by adding 600 new hotel rooms. This in turn will attract 60,000 new tourists arriving by air and sea. In addition, Bonaire hopes to become the world’s first “Blue Destination” and focus on the sustainable use of ocean resources for economic growth, improved livelihoods and jobs, ocean ecosystem health, tourism, renewable energy, fisheries, maritime transport, climate change and waste management. Through fostering economic growth that gives precedence to the sustainable use and conservation of our ocean’s resources, it ensures that future generations of visitors will be able to enjoy this “Blue Destination.” Great people are at the heart of hospitality and Rosen College has been an exceptional partner and training ground for our industry. The academic programs, research capabilities, renowned faculty, the deep partnerships in the industry — all of these elements make Rosen College a unique institution that we are pleased to have here in Orlando.” — Thomas Mazloum, President, Disney Signature Experiences Faculty Spotlight: Alan Fyall Having contributed to the field of tourism research, UCF Associate Dean and Professor Alan Fyall will be inducted into the International Academy for the Study of Tourism at its next biennial conference in 2021. He has published widely in the areas of tourism, destination marketing and management, including 22 books. As a former member of the Bournemouth Tourism Management Board, Fyall conducted numerous consulting and applied tourism research projects for clients in the United Kingdom, European Union, Africa, the Caribbean, United States, Central and South America, and Southeast Asia. Learn more about what this honor means. A Look Into How We Serve Our Community As the top hospitality school in our state located in the No. 1 destination, gain insight into how we bring smiles to those around us and create meaningful experiences in the videos below. This is Rosen College 2019 and Beyond Located in the heart of hospitality, Rosen College provides students an unrivaled opportunity to learn and work in the industry’s leading market. UCF Knights Helping Knights Pantry Opens Students at Rosen College have easy access to non-perishable food items and basic hygiene goods at the new on-site location. Hospitality and Tourism News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to… NSF Funds UCF Study to Explore AI Impact on Hospitality Industry What impact will artificial intelligence have on future jobs in the hotel and restaurant industry? UCF researchers are looking at possible impacts in the years to come. Explore what the study will do Hospitality and Tourism Degrees As a leader in hospitality management education, students have the opportunity to learn from faculty and industry partners that guide them in becoming future innovators in a world-class destination. Bachelor’s Degrees In-demand hospitality and tourism bachelor’s degrees in the U.S. Hospitality Management BS Entertainment Management BS Event Management BS Restaurant and Foodservice Management BS Senior Living Management BS Graduate Degrees Popular hospitality and tourism master’s and doctoral degrees MFA Themed Experience Hospitality and Tourism Management MS Travel Technology and Analytics MS Hospitality Management PhD Business Degrees Related business degrees for hospitality management Accounting BSBA Integrated Business BSBA Management BSBA Marketing BSBA UCF Online Programs Nationally recognized online hospitality management programs Hospitality and Tourism Management MS Travel Technology and Analytics MS Hospitality Management BS Restaurant and Food Service Management BS Senior Living Management BS Rankings and Accreditations Top 20 Most Innovative University in the Nation U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the most innovative in its annual list of best colleges. #1 Best Online Hospitality Management Program UCF’s online master’s in hospitality management ranked No. 1 in the nation by bestcolleges.com. Top 15 Best Colleges for Hospitality Management UCF’s hospitality management programs ranked in the top 15 of best schools to study hospitality management by College Factual. #62 No. 62 Top Performer on Social Mobility U.S. News & World Report ranked UCF No. 62 for enrolling and graduating large proportions of disadvantaged students awarded with Pell Grants. View all of UCF’s Best Colleges rankings. From Collaboration Comes Innovation Rosen College works with industry partners and employers from around Central Florida every day to prepare the future leaders of the hospitality industry. From one-time events and volunteer opportunities to internships, we work with a number of companies, professional organizations and nonprofits — connecting students with hospitality experiences. Plus, with its close proximity to some of the world’s top-rated attractions, resorts, restaurants and convention spaces, students have access to the top industry leaders. Working alongside these partners, they gain the latest knowledge and valuable work experience while making strong industry connections. Upon graduating, many alumni continue their careers with companies around the area — creating a pipeline of talent for years to come. Hospitality and Tourism Companies Employing UCF Graduates Walt Disney World Company Universal Orlando Resort Hilton Marriott International Loews Hotels Carnival Cruise Lines Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines Red Lobster Darden Restaurants Orange County Convention Center Orlando Magic Institutes, Associations and Affiliations American Resort Development Association Central Florida Hotels and Lodging Association Walt Disney World Company International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals Hospitality Technology Next Generation Marriott International Universal Parks and Resorts United States Tennis Association Visit Florida Visit Orlando CFHLA Student Lounge Meet and Greets Every semester, students have the opportunity to engage with leaders in the hotel and lodging industry at the Central Florida Hotel and Lodging Association Student Lounge Meet and Greets. Taking place on a weekly basis, the event alternates weeks and times. The two-hour sessions are informal and allow for networking and Q&A about careers, pathways to management, internships, part-time and full-time employment, and manager-in-training programs. Check out more events at UCF. Areas of Excellence Innovation. Access. Impact. Our integrated approach to teaching and learning prepares students for the future of work and lifelong careers, making a difference in their communities and around the world. Aerospace and Defense Digital Arts and Entertainment Healthcare Hospitality and Tourism Modeling and Simulation Space Transportation Science University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida