Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Parental Information Welcome parents of prospective and current CSUF students. College can be expensive and overwhelming but we are here to help. We partner with other campus departments to postpone payments for campus tuition, campus fees, and on-campus housing for eligible financial aid recipients. Below is a list of information for your knowledge. What is the Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act, also known as "FERPA"? The Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) prohibits CSUF from sharing student information with anyone other then student. This Federal law that protects the privacy of student education records which includes the important information you provided on your student's Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. Students may authorize individual access by filing the Authorization to Release Information form on your Student Center. Please note that the No. 1 source of information for students (or authorized individuals) is in-person (with photo ID) or on your Titan Online, only limited information is available via phone. Without prior authorization or student present information can not be shared. Learn More about COST OF ATTENDANCE | PAYING FOR COLLEGE | FAFSA | DREAM ACT | PARENT PLUS LOAN What is an Expected Family Contribution (EFC)? This is the number that’s used to determine a student's eligibility for financial aid. This number results from the financial information provided in financial aid applications. The Expected Family Contribution (EFC) is a measure of your family’s financial strength and is calculated according to a formula established by law. Your family’s taxed and untaxed income, assets, and benefits (such as unemployment or Social Security) are all considered in the formula. Also considered are your family size and the number of family members who will attend college during the year. A student's EFC is generated after completion of financial aid applications. It is the number utilized by CSUF to determine eligibility for financial aid programs. Similar methodology is utilized for those who have completed the California Dream Act (CDA) Application. Note: The EFC is not the amount of money your family will have to pay for college and it is not amount of financial aid a student will receive. It is a number used by CSUF to calculate the amount of financial aid a student is eligible to receive. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.