Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News Community Health Workers Keep Patients Connected During COVID-19 Pandemic November 4, 2020 Community health workers at NYP/CUIMC were needed more than ever during the pandemic, helping patients access the resources they needed to stay healthy and safe. Topic COVID-19 Columbia Pediatrics Establishes Palliative Care Program September 3, 2020 The new pediatric palliative care team works to ease children's pain and ensure that each family's values and preferences are heard and respected. Feared Pathogen Turns Our Lung Defenses Against Ourselves June 20, 2020 A new study reveals how P. aeruginosa bacteria—which cause many deaths worldwide from pneumonia—commandeer our immune defenses to thrive inside the lungs. Topic Infectious Diseases Children and COVID—What’s Known June 15, 2020 In two new papers, Columbia pediatricians describe two different types of serious COVID disease that occur rarely in children. Topic Gastroenterology Columbia Opens COVID Nursery Clinic for New Moms and Babies May 8, 2020 For new mothers with COVID-19 who delivered at Columbia, the clinic offers telemedicine and safe care for newborns in the first week of life, regardless of the mother’s health insurance status. Topic Infectious Diseases Could a Nasal Spray Prevent Coronavirus Transmission? February 17, 2020 A nasal spray created by Columbia researchers prevented transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in ferrets, suggesting the spray could also prevent transmission of the coronavirus in people. Topic COVID-19 Why Do Poor Children Fare Worse After Heart Surgery? February 10, 2020 A 2018 study found that children from poor neighborhoods fare worse after heart surgery compared with kids from wealthier areas. Now Columbia researchers are trying to understand why. Topic Heart Health Wendy Chung Named Chief of Clinical Genetics Division in Pediatrics December 19, 2019 Physician-scientist Wendy Chung, MD, PhD, has been named chief of the Division of Clinical Genetics in the Department of Pediatrics, effective Jan. 1, 2020. Topic Campus News Columbia Physicians Target Neglected Cause of Childhood Disability and Death in Uganda December 18, 2019 In the United States, the drug hydroxyurea has helped reduce strokes caused by sickle cell disease. Now a team from Columbia and Makerere University is testing if it can do the same in Uganda. 6 Things You Need to Know about Kids and the Flu Shot November 25, 2019 This year’s flu season is off to an early start, and one of the active strains is known to hit children harder. Columbia pediatrician Melissa Stockwell explains why kids should get a flu shot. Topic Campus News Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top