Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Take It to the Farmer: Critical Reflections on Delivering Genetic Gain in Wheat Posted on July 6, 2020 By College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. In its second online event, the Borlaug Global Rust Initiative (BGRI) presents a series of reflections on what it means to deliver genetic gain in wheat to farmers and ways to improve the future impact of wheat research. The BGRI is housed in Cornell's Department of Global Development. Keynote: “Impact of the Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat (DRRW) / and Delivering Genetic Gain in Wheat (DGGW) Projects: 12 Years of Research and Variety Adoption,” by Ronnie Coffman, BGRI vice-chair. Videos: Wheat farmers in the UK, Kenya, Ethiopia, Nepal, India and Mexico discuss challenges they face. Panel Discussion moderated by Maricelis Acevedo, associate director of science for the DGGW with BGRI wheat experts Hans Braun (CIMMYT/Mexico), Dr. Bedada Girma (EIAR/Ethiopia), Anne Gichangi (KALRO/Kenya), Vijay Vijayaraghaven (Sathguru/India), Bill Angus (Angus Wheat/UK) and Chhavi Tiwari (Harvest Plus and Banaras Hindu University/India) discuss evolving partnerships and ways to improve access to new technologies and improved wheat varieties." Selected video clips from: Deviprasad Aryal, wheat farmer, Bharatpur, Nepal; Ramchandra Adhikari, wheat farmer, Bharatpur, Nepal; Esther Chelule, wheat farmer, Njoro, Kenya; Ajo Mergo, wheat seed producer, Kechema Murkicha, Ethiopia; Jesús Larraguibel Artola, president, Agricultural Research and Experimentation for Sonora – PIEAES, Ciudad Obregón, Mexico; and Gurjeet Singh Mann, wheat farmer, Sirsa, India. More About global development farming agriculture genetics plant science plant pathology What to watch next 5:53 MyPlaylist Gene editing in rice for crop improvement 1:42 MyPlaylist UV light vs. powdery mildew 9:07 MyPlaylist Voices of Experience: Good Advice for New Farmers surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×