Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Finance » Office of the Controller » Payroll Operations » W-2 Tax Information Set Navigation title in component Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History W-2 Information W-2 Instructions for Employees right arrow down arrow Specific Instructions for Form W-2 W-2 Information and Changes for 2021 right arrow down arrow 2021 Online W-2s will be available mid-January for those who have signed up or will be signing up to receive their W-2 online. An email will be sent to you when your W-2 is available to view and print. You may print as many copies as you need. If you did not elect to receive your W-2 online, it will be mailed by January 31, 2022 to your home address as maintained in Employee Self Service (ESS). Duplicate 2021 W-2s will only be available using ESS. If you need a duplicate 2021 W-2, enroll in Online W-2s via Employee Self Service by following these W-2 instructions. W-2s will consist of four copies. One of them will be marked COPY "C" FOR EMPLOYEE’S RECORDS, and should be retained permanently. If your 2021 payroll record includes wage or tax information for multiple localities (two or more cities or a city and a school district), or for more than one state because you moved during the year between OH, KY, and IN, you will receive this information on multiple Forms W-2 (also see Boxes 18, 19, and 20, below). Please verify that the following data is correct on your W-2, your pay statements and Form 1095-C: Your name should match your name on your Social Security Card. Your Social Security Number should match your number on your Social Security Card. Your current home address should be displayed. Your correct taxing jurisdictions should be included. Corrections are to be requested as follows: Change of address - through Employee Self Service. Name changes, Social Security Number corrections, and tax jurisdiction changes – contact Human Resources at 513-556-6381, EXT: 0. If you have any questions regarding the information included on your Form W-2, please e-mail Payroll Operations at UCFlexpa@uc.edu. Changes for 2022 - from Payroll: Various limits for 2022 The 403(b) and 457 normal limits increases from $19,500 in 2021 to $20,500 in 2022. The 403(b) and 457 “catch-up” deferral limits remain $6,500 if you are over age 50 or reached age 50 by 12/31/2022. Employee paid Medicare Tax increase remains 0.9% on wages in excess of $200,000. The $5,250 income exclusion under IRC 127 (Employee Educational Assistance Programs) remains for tuition remission. The 2022 annual HSA contribution limit for individuals with self-only HDHP coverage changes from $3,600 to $3,650. The 2022 annual HSA contribution limit for individuals with family HDHP coverage changes from $7,200 to $7,300. The 2022 annual HSA catch-up limit for individuals age 55+ remains $1,000. W-2 FAQs right arrow down arrow Box 1; WAGES, TIPS, OTHER COMPENSATION. This is the taxable amount reported to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). It includes any taxable fringe benefits (such as the taxable portion of graduate level tuition remission), as well as the taxable value of group-term life insurance (see Box 12, below). Your taxable (Box 1) gross should be entered on the wages line of your Federal tax return. It includes all earnings and UC benefit credits paid to you in 2021, less all of your pre-tax benefit and retirement deductions. Box 5; MEDICARE WAGES AND TIPS. Income subject to the Medicare tax is not reduced by any retirement deferrals, but it is increased and decreased by credits and pre-tax deductions for Choice Benefits, as well as pre-tax parking deductions. There was no applicable limit on Medicare wages in 2021. Box 6; MEDICARE TAX WITHHELD. State employees in Ohio do not pay into Social Security, but state and local government employees hired, or rehired, after 3/31/86 must pay the Medicare portion of the Social Security (FICA) tax. The only applicable exceptions at UC are student employees working while enrolled at least half time and attending classes, and international students and scholars visiting the U.S. for a limited period and considered tax nonresidents under F-1 or J-1 visas. The Medicare tax rate is 1.45% or 2.35% for taxable earnings over $200.000.00. Box 10; DEPENDENT CARE BENEFITS. This is the pre-tax amount paid into a dependent care flexible spending account as part of the UC Benefits program. Only dependent care benefits are reportable. Other pre-tax deductions withheld under UC’s Benefits plan are not reportable. Boxes 12a, 12b, 12c, and 12d. Up to five amounts may appear, when applicable, as described here and in the Notice to Employee on the back of your Form W-2. May result in a 2nd W-2 being printed. Each of the following codes may be applicable: C - Taxable value of life insurance coverage. The calculated taxable value of group-term life insurance in excess of $50,000 that has been added into Box 1 as “other compensation". E - Section 403(b) pre-tax deductions. Total “elective deferrals”, which include pre-tax employee deductions to the “grandfathered” (pre-1977) TIAA/Fidelity retirement plan, as well as all of UC’s supplemental Tax Deferred Opportunities (TDO), other than the Ohio Deferred Compensation Plan. STRS, OPERS, and ARP deductions DO NOT add into this total. Internal Revenue Code Section 403(b) plan deferrals were generally limited to $19,500 in 2021, with a $6,500 “catch-up” deferral permitted if you were over age 50 or reached age 50 by 12/31/2021. G - Section 457(b) contributions. Any amount that you contributed to the Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation Plan (OPEDC). Up to $19,500 could additionally be deferred into this plan in 2021. The $6,500 “over age 50” catch-up was also applicable, or a special catch-up provision was available near “normal retirement age” (contact OPEDC for details). W - Employer contributions (including amounts the employee elected to contribute using a section 125 (cafeteria) plan) to your health savings account. DD – Aggregate reportable cost includes the cost of coverage under the UC-sponsored group health plan for the employee and any person covered by the plan because of a relationship with the employee. The amount reported with Code DD is not taxable. Box 13. The “Retirement plan” block must be checked for all UC employees, including student employees who chose not to contribute to OPERS based on an optional student exemption. By checking the “Retirement plan” block, an employer notifies the IRS that an employee’s eligibility for a deductible Individual Retirement Arrangement (IRA) is limited. Boxes 18, 19, and 20; LOCAL WAGES/TAXES/LOCALITY NAMES. In addition to the information reported for municipal income taxes withheld, Ohio SCHOOL DISTRICT INCOME TAX (SDIT) data will be provided in these boxes if any SDIT has been withheld. Only one locality will print on each W-2, so employees with more than one local tax will receive multiple copies of Form W-2, each indicating a separate locality. Please note that the combination of Indiana or Kentucky state tax and Cincinnati tax will also result in two forms printing. The Notice to Employee on the back of copies B and C includes information furnished by the IRS regarding income tax refunds, Form W-2 corrections, dependent care expenses, and other potentially important concerns of taxpayers. For online form W2’s this information can be found here. If you have any questions regarding the information included on your Form W-2, please e-mail Payroll Operations at UCFlexpa@uc.edu. View & Print W-2 right arrow down arrow Please see the below instructions for viewing and printing your 2021 Form W-2. You can also view instructions with screenshots at this link: Instructions for accessing your W-2 in UCFlex 1. To view and print your online W-2, you must be logged in to the UC network - which means accessing UCFlex from the UC campus or using VPN access when off campus. For VPN instructions, click here: Instructions for accessing UCFlex via the UC VPN NOTE: All login issues must be directed to our Help Desk at (513) 556-4357 (Option 2) or https://ituc.service-now.com/sp 2. Log into UCFlex (www.ucflex.uc.edu) 3. Click on the “ESS” Tab 4. Click on “W2 Display/Print” tile 5. Enter the last 4 digits of your Social Security Number 6. Select the tax year of the Form W-2 you wish to view 7. Click “Display”- (NOTE: some employees will have multiple W-2's for 2021. If this is the case for you, the "Next Form" button will be activated. Make sure to print all pages of your Form W-2 for your tax filings) 8. To print, right-click on the displayed PDF and choose “Print” To view the PDF, it is necessary to use a compatible internet browser and appropriate version of Adobe software. Issues with Employee Self Service login or trouble viewing the Form W-2 PDF should be directed to our Help Desk at (513) 556-4357 (Option 2) or https://ituc.service-now.com/sp. Note: There is a link under Online W2 Services to "View W2 Instructions". To assist in completing your tax return, click on that link to view the Form W-2 instructions that are normally printed on the back of a paper Form W-2. Payroll Operations is not able to offer tax advice to any employee on how to complete a tax return. Please consult a professional for assistance. Online W-2 Enrollment right arrow down arrow Online W-2 enrollment for future year W-2’s is available in Employee Self Service (ESS). Enroll today and your future W-2’s will be available for you to print in early January next year. This will greatly speed up your access to your W-2 and contribute to the University's green initiative. The cutoff date to enroll is December 31st. If enrolled, you will receive an e-mail in early January informing you how to view and print your W-2 using ESS. You can also reprint your W-2 at any time. Your election to enroll in the online W-2 program will carry forward to future years, saving you the time and effort of enrolling annually. Should you decide to revert to receiving a mailed copy of your W-2, you can change your election up to December 31st each year. Please ensure your address is up-to-date in ESS. To enroll in the online W-2 program - Log into the UC network from campus or by using VPN access when off campus. Log into UCFlex. Click on the “ESS” Tab. Click on the “Overview – Employee Self Service” tile Click on "Your Pay Statement, W-4 Tax Withholding, and Online W2 Services." Click on "Make Your Online W2 Election." Read the Disclosure Notice. Click the checkbox that says "I agree to the above terms and conditions." Make your election (2 options): Receive a paper W-2. Receive an online W-2. Click Save Two messages will appear at the top of the screen: "You will receive an email confirmation shortly." "Your election has been saved successfully." Further details can be found in the Disclosure Notice on the W-2 election screen. Other matters not covered above, or in the Disclosure Notice, should be directed to Payroll Operations at (513) 556-2451. Online W-2 Disclosure Notice right arrow down arrow DISCLOSURE NOTICE: If you consent to receive your Form W-2 online, you will not receive a paper copy of the subsequent W-2 furnished for you. If you do not consent to receive your Form W-2 online, you will continue to receive a paper Form W-2. The designation made here will be in effect for all future Form W-2’s furnished, unless rescinded by you. If you do not consent to receive your Form W-2 online, it is your responsibility to maintain a current address on Employee Self Service. If your consent is withdrawn, it applies only to future Form W-2’s and not to any which have already been made available online. Upon termination of employment, access to your online Form W-2’s will still be available. All subsequent Form W-2’s furnished after your termination effective date will be delivered as a paper copy to the most updated address on file in Human Resources, but will also be available on Employee Self Service. You may be required to print and attach your Form W-2(s) to your Federal, Local and/or State tax return(s). If a successful election is made below, you will be sent an e-mail verifying your election was made successfully. If no communication is sent to your UC e-mail, the election was likely unsuccessful. If you have consented to receive your Form W-2 online, communications will be sent in January notifying you when your online Form W-2 is available for viewing/printing. Form 1095-C - Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage right arrow down arrow Form 1095-C is a tax form required under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Form 1095-C, Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage is used by employers with 50 or more full time employees to report the information about offers of health coverage and enrollment in health coverage for their employees. If you were enrolled or eligible for enrollment in a UC medical plan or were considered a full-time employee at any point in 2021, then you should receive Form 1095-C. Think of the form as “proof of insurance” for the IRS. While the information on the form may help you complete your tax return, the form is NOT needed to file. You can file your federal tax return even if you have not received one of these statements. The form will be mailed to your home address as maintained in Employee Self Service (ESS). The form WILL NOT be mailed with the UC W-2 and is NOT available electronically. If you have any questions regarding the form, please refer to the above website or submit your question in writing to Benefits@uc.edu. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top