Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Our Faculty At the Head of the Class Princeton faculty are renowned leaders in their fields, extraordinary teachers and dedicated mentors. Faculty Profiles Guy Nordenson . Architecture. Practicing structural engineer who teaches a freshman seminar on architectural ethics. Learn More Janet Currie . Economics and Public and International Affairs. Expert on health and wellbeing, and explorer of the building blocks of children's success. Learn More Eddie Glaude Jr. . African American Studies and Religion. Author of "Democracy in Black," and scholar at the intersections of race, politics and religion. Learn More Amaney Jamal . Politics. Leader of the Bobst Center for Peace and Justice, and explorer of Middle East politics, gender and Islam. Learn More Yiyun Li . Creative Writing. Fiction writer and memoirist who loves teaching students from a variety of majors. Learn more Brian Kernighan . Computer Science. Revered author of computer programming languages, and mentor to generations of top computer scientists. Learn More Facts & Figures 1,289 Faculty, including full time, part time and visiting 76% Tenured professorial faculty 1,576 Research funding awards 5:1 Student to faculty ratio 27 Faculty and staff Nobel Prize winners Show Me More Facts and Figures Faculty in the News University News Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' . Princeton President Christopher L. Eisgruber delivered the following remarks during the Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony on Tuesday, May 24, 2022. Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching . Four Princeton University faculty members received President’s Awards for Distinguished Teaching at Commencement ceremonies Tuesday, May 24. Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees . Princeton University awarded honorary degrees during Commencement exercises Tuesday, May 24, to five individuals for their contributions to civil rights, higher education, healthcare, neuroscience and business. Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards . The Princeton University chapter of Phi Beta Kappa presents its 2022 annual awards for excellence in undergraduate teaching to Alexander Davis, lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program, and Casey Lew-Williams, professor of psychology and director of graduate studies. Read more Faculty Community Explore the wide range of faculty expertise and research, learn about Princeton's community of scholars, and join us. Academic Areas Library Office of the Dean of the Faculty Apply for an Academic Position Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice