Skip To Content University of Notre Dame Homemade Poison Notre Dame health experts respond to lead crisis Brittany Griffith and her husband, David, believed that buying their first house on the near northwest side of South Bend in 2012 marked a huge step toward the American dream. “We didn’t mind the area because we were college students, young and progressive,” she said. “The house was quaint and small and well taken care of by an older couple who bought it in the ’40s.” “Nobody thinks when they buy a house that it’s going to hurt you.” Share Four years later, that idyllic vision curdled. A blood test revealed the Griffiths’ 2-year-old son Atticus had elevated levels of lead in his system, which can lead to serious cognitive, developmental and behavioral problems in children, ranging from hyperactivity to lower IQ. They have since learned that they live in a home and neighborhood with the highest levels of lead poisoning in Indiana. “Nobody thinks when they buy a house that it’s going to hurt you,” she said. “It’s scary that we’re living with a neurotoxin on the inside and out. It was so easy to buy the house, but now we’re deep in a well scraping to get out.” Griffith said Atticus hasn’t reached normal milestones for his age. Despite nearing his third birthday, he doesn’t speak words beyond “mama” or show interest in solid foods. He’s had so much blood drawn for tests that he has a meltdown if he thinks they’re in a doctor’s office. She knows the problems can cascade into educational and behavioral challenges that last a lifetime. Atticus Griffith, 2 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) considers blood lead levels at 5 micrograms per deciliter or above to be elevated. Atticus tested at 12.9. “It’s heartbreaking; there’s a lot of shame and guilt, things that I think about late at night,” Griffith said. “We’re still trying to determine what is or isn’t related to lead poisoning.” The Griffiths are among hundreds of families in their neighborhood who learned last December that nearly a third of kids tested there over a decade had elevated levels of lead in their blood. The CDC estimates that about 2.5 percent of kids nationwide have elevated levels. In the year after the well-publicized water crisis in Flint, Michigan, 5 percent of kids tested there had high blood lead levels. The re-exposure of the lead problem happened last fall. A 2016 state study that analyzed a decade of lead testing finally broke the results down by census tract. Last September, St. Joseph County Health Officer Dr. Luis Galup recognized that he needed some help. State pressure to follow new CDC limits ― which lowered the threshold for case management from 10 micrograms per deciliter to 5 ― would likely identify more children than the county could handle. A blood lead level (BLL) test, conducted with a finger-prick or blood draw, measures lead in blood in micrograms per deciliter (mg/dL). <0 (mg/dL) Lead occurs naturally in the human body, with trace amounts found in blood even at birth. Still, the CDC says even the smallest levels of lead exposure can be unsafe for the developing brains of children. 1.0-1.3 (mg/dL) Average blood lead level among U.S. children ages 1-5. 5 (mg/dL) The CDC's updated threshold to consider a child's blood level elevated, which warrants close monitoring, reporting to parents or case management. An estimated half a million U.S. children likely reach this level. 10 (mg/dL) The CDC's previous threshold to require closer attention and public health action, such as inspection of the poisoned child's home to identify potential sources. This level can lead to problems like lower IQ and hyperactivity. 45 (mg/dL) This level of poisoning may require hospitalization and chelation drug treatment, which helps the body excrete lead. <70 (mg/dL) If not treated, acute lead poisoning can cause seizures, coma and death. Sources: CDC, State health agencies, Poisoning prevention programs, U.S. EPA In November, he turned to Notre Dame for assistance. Weeks later, the lead hit the fan when a nationwide Reuters story on lead poisoning informed the public exactly how many kids in the Near Northwest, where the Griffiths live, had tested at elevated levels. *** Galup approached Heidi Beidinger, an expert in public health and assistant professor in Notre Dame’s Eck Institute for Global Health, which seeks to address the causes of health inequities at home and around the world. Beidinger, who also serves on the county health board, joined the Eck Institute in 2015 after working as an educational consultant and for the CDC in Chicago in various leadership roles, developing an expertise in screening and treatment programs, STD/HIV and correctional healthcare. Knowing how little money the county has to address the issue, Beidinger and colleague Lacey Ahern scrambled to plan a new Lead Exposure course for the 2017 spring semester. Their research would aim to identify the cause of the high lead levels and help guide the cash-strapped health department’s response. “To be able to impact our own community is an amazing opportunity to give back,” Beidinger said. “Our goal is a long-term sustainable plan to deal with lead in the community.” The first thing they learned is that the problem isn’t new. Fifteen years ago, Notre Dame and local health and service officials created a Lead Alliance that generated more awareness, testing and resources related to lead poison. “To be able to impact our own community is an amazing opportunity to give back.” Share The Housing Authority of South Bend acquired a $3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in 2006, and community sources provided $1 million in matching funding and services. The county used that money to renovate old homes, provide community outreach and increase lead testing. Nearly $4 million in additional funds boosted these efforts in 2012. Much of the testing was done by the Women, Infants and Children program in South Bend – until the grant funding dried up last year and the free testing stopped. The county health department’s portion of funding ran dry in May, and its nursing staff dedicated to the lead problem dwindled from 5 to 2, both of whom also have other duties. A 2016 application for more HUD funding was rejected. In 2011, more than 3,000 children in St. Joseph County were tested for lead. In 2015 only about 650 kids were tested. Medicaid, the health program for people at poverty levels, requires kids to be screened at 12 and 24 months, but pediatricians don’t always order the tests. Beidinger said there should be 10,000 tests a year to establish a baseline. “This is the nature of public health,” she said. “We respond and put resources into the problem, then we go put out another fire and forget about lead.” The second thing they found out is how many people were willing to help. Within days of sending an email, Beidinger said she had responses from 15 different disciplines on campus, ranging from chemists offering to do lab testing to engineers with new field testing equipment to community relations experts with medical and government contacts. On the first day of class in late January, Ahern told the small class of undergraduate and graduate students that the goal of the course was to create an epidemiologic profile and hot spot map. Officials could use their data to argue that the county needs more resources to address its lead problem. “It’s important to remember we are just part of a team working on this,” Ahern said. “We’re not lead experts, but we are community health experts.” Their first step was to analyze the data to isolate the cause. Lead can come from one of four sources: water, paint, dust and soil. South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg immediately said that extensive tests prove city water was not the source. Old homes with peeling and deteriorating paint still present a risk of lead contamination even though the heavy metal was phased out of paint and gasoline in the late 1970s. All houses built before the ban could have lead-based paint that peels and chips, creates dust and drips into soil, but the risk is magnified in poorer areas where money for renovations is scarce. The only reason South Bend officials learned about the problem in the Near Northwest is because a state epidemiologist did a census tract breakdown of risk areas and blood tests from 2005-15. Strangely, the state of Maine funded the study through a CDC program that pays for state-to-state partnerships. The report came out in May 2016, but Galup pointed out that the testing data may not be statistically representative. Previously, state-level analysis ― if there was any ― had not identified the problem. A countywide average would not find the severe risks in certain neighborhoods. The Griffiths live in a census tract where 19 percent of kids tested had elevated blood levels ― mere blocks from the worst census tract in Indiana, where 178 out of 568 (31 percent) of kids tested exceeded the threshold. That’s one of the elements that bothers the Griffiths. If testing was being done and the data was out there, why did it take so long for the public to learn the results? *** When Brittany and David bought the two-bedroom 1929 home for $32,000, no one warned them about the danger of lead in older homes. There wasn’t any obvious chipped or peeling paint. Tests for radon and lead are recommended but not mandatory. “Later, we find out that that moment of saving a little money on closing costs affected my son,” she said. “Everyone says it’s because of our economic status. It’s our fault for not reading the fine print. That’s hard to accept because they say it’s preventable.” The Griffith Family She was walking out the door after Atticus’ 2-year-old checkup when the nurses told her to wait. They said his lead levels were high and he should be checked at the South Bend Medical Foundation. “It was kind of jaw-dropping,” she said. Griffith said she tried not to overreact even while researching the effects of lead poisoning in kids. The official diagnosis came back on January 7 and the family was put in case management because Atticus’ levels doubled the CDC limits. The county tested the home and found high levels of lead around door frames, windows and the exterior siding. The interior porch siding registered as extremely dangerous. “Later, we find out that that moment of saving a little money on closing costs affected my son.” Share County health officials taught the family how to mitigate the risks with changes in diet and cleaning. To offset lead absorption, they suggested high levels of iron and vitamin C. They provided a vacuum with a special filter to trap lead dust. Griffith began using wet wipes for dusting, Swiffers for mopping and keeping windows closed ― all methods to keep down dust. She began washing Atticus’ hands hourly and his toys each week. The family saved money for months to repaint the interior and cover the old paint. David took a new job so he could increase his hours to at least 11 a day. At a Near Northwest Neighborhood community meeting about lead in February, she spoke about her worries and frustrations. “I’m so glad to hear others’ stories, because it’s so lonely when you think you’re the only one,” she told about 80 people at the community center, including the Notre Dame group. “I want to do everything I can for my child and I’m sure you do too.” The Griffiths pleaded to get the soil around their house tested and finally received the results in May. As expected, there are danger spots in the soil. It’s another huge concern because, like many active toddlers, Atticus loves to play in the dirt and mud. Brittany Griffith said she’s scared to put her son in preschool because he can’t tell the teachers what he needs. She and her husband decided they don’t want to have another child until the lead issue is resolved. “I get jealous when I see toddlers eating crackers and saying full sentences, like they’re so lucky because their kid’s a genius,” she said. “Will they grow up to do things my son will never do? I’m a first-time mom, and I don’t know if something is what children do or it’s the lead poisoning.” *** Students in the Lead Exposure class studied the problem from many angles, including neurological impact, legal frameworks and environmental remediation. They learned how to conduct home lead tests and create digital maps showing home and neighborhood danger areas. They also gathered a decade of digital records on lead testing for the county. The database became a semester-long challenge because the 36,000 lines of information were entered inconsistently, requiring a major clean-up effort before analysis was possible. Speakers from medical community, the former Lead Alliance and government provided historical and cutting-edge information. For instance, Dr. Gabriel Filippelli, an earth sciences professor and director of the Center for Urban Health at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, presented his research that dirt is often the main culprit in lead poisoning. When students performed practice tests on an abandoned house in June, they found high levels of lead in two dirt patches. The most common fix is to cover the dirt with mulch or grass. Beidinger went to Indianapolis to talk with Gov. Eric Holcomb and state officials. A state senator from South Bend filed a bill to double the number of Medicaid-eligible children tested statewide, but the measure failed. “I think the students’ presentation was extremely helpful, especially about local lead levels, resources and plans.”– Dr. Dale Patterson, medical director of the E. Blair Warner Family Medicine Center at Memorial Hospital Share Still, Beidinger said the class quickly grew into one part of a growing coalition of government, nonprofit and health leaders working together to address the challenge. It adopted the name: Lead Affinity Group. The county board of health drafted a 10-item action list, including investigating health problems, mobilizing county partnerships and linking people to health services. Dr. Dale Patterson, medical director of the E. Blair Warner Family Medicine Center at Memorial Hospital, said the medical community could do a better job on the lead issue by pushing pediatricians to screen kids more regularly. That’s why he invited the Lead Exposure class to share their research with a group of about two dozen practicing doctors at Memorial on April 21. “I think the students’ presentation was extremely helpful, especially about local lead levels, resources and plans,” said Patterson. “They had clearly done their research.” The next day, dozens of Notre Dame students knocked on more than 600 doors in the near northwest neighborhood for an event called “Get the Lead Out.” They handed out flyers the class created and encouraged families to get their children tested for lead at the local community center, where staff from Memorial Hospital conducted free tests ― and families got complimentary ice cream. Exposure to lead can seriously harm a child's health. Damage to the brain and nervous system. Slowed growth and development. Learning and behavior problems. Hearing and speech problems. Sources: CDC The county health department still needs more money to provide services for children with blood lead levels between 5 and 9.9 micrograms per deciliter. Galup, the health officer, said there could be 10 times more kids in that range. With an average cost of $15,000 per remediation, he said, previous funding has not come close to addressing about 6,000 housing units in the county that have a high risk of lead exposure. Beidinger and Ahern realized that the spring class was only the starting point in creating a sustainable plan to deal with lead. Together with chemistry professor Marya Lieberman, they secured a $7,000 grant from the University’s Center of Social Concerns in order to test some homes where lead-poisoned kids fall in the range outside the department’s capacity. They directed a portion of the grant, about $1,300, to the county’s Women, Infants and Children program so it could restart free testing through the summer. For the fall, Beidinger and Filippelli are employing the data found so far to apply for a grant of several hundred thousand dollars from the National Institutes of Health. She hopes to use that money to build a sustainable infrastructure to make sure the lead problem is continually addressed rather than surprising the public every 10 or 15 years. “When we were putting this class together, I felt hopeless,” Beidinger said. “But it’s amazing to me ― there’s been a complete 180. There is some money available. And it seems like the right people are at the table.” By June, the positive results were undeniable. The South Bend Tribune, which has covered the problem extensively and aided in spreading awareness, reported that lead testing for kids under age 7 had more than doubled compared to the previous year. Where 500 kids were tested in the first three months of last year, 1,100 kids were tested this year. The results were also more quickly quantified than before. About 5 percent had elevated blood lead levels, with 13 of 50 having levels above 10 micrograms per deciliter, mostly on the northwest side. Beidinger said the spring class’s data analysis confirmed the depth of the county’s lead problem, especially because there is no safe lead level. “The thing that hits you in the face is that the overwhelming majority of 36,000 tests show some level of lead in these kids’ blood,” she said. “And the screening levels are too low, so this is just the tip of the iceberg.” She and Ahern plan to present the findings to the county board of health in July and publish the results afterwards. The scope of the problem and campus members involved change constantly. Seven professors and 14 students are working on the issue this summer. This team began the first of 20 home lead tests at the end of June. “It has become all-consuming in just a few months,” she said. “This is the reality of working on a complex public health problem. The lesson learned is that you can’t fly ahead on passion, you have to bring everyone along. But I really think our county could be a model for the state in how to respond to the lead issue.” *** Now that the Griffiths know lead has been detected in and around their house, they can’t legally sell it without disclosing the problem. So they feel trapped there, unable to move away from the poison. Brittany Griffith said some neighbors are afraid to have their homes tested because they know they won’t be able to afford the remediation or might lose their rented home. “It’s crazy that people wanted this outlawed in the 1920s and now it’s 2017 and I’m still dealing with the problem,” she said. “It’s a gut punch.” Still, she has found some reasons for hope. Atticus’ most recent blood test found that his level has dropped to 7 micrograms per deciliter. “I’m proving we can do this,” she said. “It’s expensive and time consuming, but it can be done with medical and science education.” She has not been shy in speaking out and drawing awareness to the toxins in the neighborhood, getting involved in the Lead Affinity Group and other efforts. She became certified in lead-safe renovations. She has applied for a grant to do more home improvements after the city made a pot of money available for abatements in response to the recurrence of the lead problem. The city hopes that recent coverage of lead poisoning will help it win its next HUD grant request. And Griffith is glad to have found an ally at Notre Dame. “I’m thankful Heidi is on the county health board,” she said, “and that she and the students are so passionate about this.” Produced by the Office of Public Affairs and Communications. Writer: Brendan O'Shaughnessy Photography: Barbara Johnston Page Design: Taylor Packet Copyright © 2017 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574-631-5000 Accessibility Information