Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Alumni Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. About Students Employers Alumni Facts and Figures Contact Us About Students Employers Alumni Facts and Figures Contact Us Alumni Alumni in search of professional opportunities can take advantage of a number of services and resources, including: Access to Mailman CareerLink. Consultation with career services staff. To schedule an appointment, use CareerLink. Alumni who are more than 1 year past graduation are encouraged to make appointments with career services during the summer. During the school year (Sept.-May), alumni may make up to 2 appointments with career services staff per semester. Alumni also have free, lifetime access to use CareerLink and attend workshops and career events. Participation in workshops, panels, and career day events, including our annual Alumni Job Search Boot Camp offered in August. Ability to join Mailman School LinkedIn group. Subscription to our Weekly Announcements email. Recent graduates will continue to receive the weekly Announcements—with time-sensitive career opportunities and other career-related content—for approximately three months after graduating, and can resubscribe at any time by emailing our general inbox at msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu. Please include your date of graduation and department. The Weekly Announcements listserv is refreshed every Fall semester, following registration. At that time, any members of the listserv who are not currently registered Mailman School students will be removed. If you would like to subscribe again, email us at msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu. Alumni are also eligible for lifetime email forwarding, inclusion in the Columbia University Alumni Directory, and access to Columbia Career Connections. Please visit the Office of Alumni Affairs for additional alumni services and benefits. Survey To better serve current students and alumni, Career Services is interested in learning more about your plans—whether they include work and/or further education—as well as your job search experiences to date. Your responses to the survey are confidential and will only be used in aggregate to provide us with information that can impact the activities of the Admissions, Career Services, and Alumni offices, and help us to more effectively market the School to prospective employers. The survey will be emailed to you near graduation. If you have questions or would like to report an update to your post-graduate status, please email hk2778 [at] cumc.columbia.edu (Heather Krasna). If you graduated before this current year and wish to participate in the survey, please msphalum [at] columbia.edu (contact the Office of Alumni Affairs). More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 A University-Community Partnership Established at the Height of COVID Stands the Test of TimeApr 20 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Historically Redlined Neighborhoods Burdened by Excess Oil and Gas WellsApr 13 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers