Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Commencement Week COVID Protocols (May 22–29) Keeping Harvard healthy at commencement. ✕ Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Harvard Kennedy School inspires new thinking “If you want to live in a better world … become involved in shaping it,” Moldovan head of state Maia Sandu MC/MPA 2010 tells graduates in the first in-person HKS graduation ceremony since 2019. Read more about the Graduation Remarks Ideas @ HKS Russia-Ukraine War: Insights and Analysis From geopolitics to sanctions to the role of misinformation and cyberattacks, HKS scholars analyze the Russian invasion of Ukraine and what it means for the world. Are we entering another Cold War? Probably not—but it could be even worse Veteran historians ponder the 20th century world for lessons from Russia’s Ukraine invasion. Learning policy implementation amid complexity and ambiguity Executive Education participants and degree program students at HKS learn to avoid a rush to solutions and instead trust an iterative process. Is an emboldened conservative majority taking the Supreme Court in an unpopular new direction? HKS Professor Maya Sen analyzes the new balance of power on the Supreme Court and how the conservative majority aligns with the beliefs of Americans. The United States pays reparations every day—just not to Black America Cornell William Brooks and Linda Bilmes explore the issue of restorative justice for the multifaceted, intergenerational harms Black Americans have suffered. Ongoing lessons from a long pandemic What COVID-19 has taught—and continues to teach—us two years in. Discover Programs That Fit Your Career Goals Master’s Programs Master’s Programs One- and two-year master’s degree programs in public policy or public administration prepare students to lead. How to Apply Executive Education Executive Education Open-enrollment and custom programs to help leaders gain the skills needed to solve current challenges in real time. Find a program Doctoral Programs Doctoral Programs Full-time PhD programs in public, health, and social policy prepare candidates for careers in academia, research, or policymaking. How to Apply Public Leadership Credential Public Leadership Credential A series of online courses developed to help learners improve their decision-making, leadership, and policymaking skills for the public good. Request Info Upcoming Events What strategies can schools use to promote safe learning? Friday, June 3, 2022 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM EDT Nathaniel L. Moir — Number One Realist: Bernard Fall and Vietnamese Revolutionary Warfare Monday, June 6, 2022 2:00 PM - 3:15 PM EDT Leading through Crisis with Deval Patrick Wednesday, June 15, 2022 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM EDT View more events The Latest Public Leadership & Management Moldovan President Maia Sandu urges graduates to jump into the political fray Fairness & Justice Elevating the stories of diverse, unsung women, one interview at a time Advocacy & Social Movements Orchestrating meaningful change for refugees Read more stories HKS Instagram Get smart & reliable public policy insights right in your inbox. SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER Acknowledgment of Land and People Harvard University is located on the traditional land of the Massachusett people, and the Nipmuc and Wampanoag Nations have long been our neighbors as well. Harvard Kennedy School recognizes and honors the past, present, and future of these Indigenous people and precious lands. 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/