Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » 2018–19 Award Winners Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners Barry Goldwater Scholarship Chinmay Bakshi Chinmay is a double major in Chemistry and Neuroscience and is a recipient of the 2019 Goldwater Scholarship. Profile Nihar Rama Nihar is a Medical Sciences major and is a recipient of the 2019 Goldwater Scholarship. Boren Scholarship Julia James Julia is a History major and is a recipient of the 2019 Boren Scholarship. She will be traveling to Indonesia for a year and studying Indonesian starting this fall. Critical Language Scholarship Gordon Goodwin Gordon is a double major in International Affairs and Arabic Language and Culture and is a recipient of the 2019 Critical Language Scholarship. He will be studying Arabic. David Moore David is majoring in Architectural Engineering and is a recipient of the 2019 Critical Language Scholarship. He will be studying Japanese. Alexandra Pasqualone Alexandra is getting her Master's in History and is a recipient of the 2019 Critical Language Scholarship. She will be studying Arabic. Fulbright ETA Grant Garrett Ainsworth Garrett will be graduating this Spring with a dual degree in Business Economics and Marketing and is a recipient of a 2019 Fulbright ETA Grant. He will be teaching English for a year in Taiwan starting this fall. Amanda Bright Amanda will be graduating this Spring with a degree in Secondary Education and is a recipient of a 2019 Fulbright ETA Grant. She will be teaching English for a year in Greece starting this fall. Fulbright Study/Research Grant Brian Nabors Brian is getting his doctorate in Composition and is a recipient of a 2019 Fulbright Study/Research Grant. He will be traveling to Australia in the fall. Andrea Ori Andrea will be graduating this Spring with a degree in Medical Sciences and is a recipient of a 2019 Fulbright Study/Research Grant. She will be traveling to France in the fall. Fulbright UK Summer Institute Grant Chloe Elleman Chloe is majoring in Medical Sciences and is a recipient of a 2019 Fulbright UK Summer Institute Grant. She will be traveling to Queen's University Belfast this summer. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top