Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » About UHP » Inclusive Excellence Set Navigation title in component Inclusive Excellence Competencies Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Inclusive Excellence All Are Welcome The University Honors Program celebrates diversity, equity, and inclusion as core values that empower our students, staff, and faculty to achieve their highest potential. The UHP is a place where open minds come together to discuss big ideas and solve complex problems. Differences in identity and thought are key to creating positive change. We affirm the richness of human diversity and believe that it is paramount to learning. Our goal is to sustain a culture in which students, staff, and faculty come together to embrace differences and experience growth and transformation as a result. We prioritize inclusion, transformational personal development, civic participation, and global responsibility. We believe that Black Lives Matter. We welcome students, staff, and faculty of all areas of identity – including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, disability status, age, family structure, regional or national origin, citizenship, religion, veteran status, and political belief. Together, we can solve the world’s complex problems through leading and learning from diverse perspectives, collaboration, understanding, and mutual respect. We affirm and celebrate all. Ways to Get Involved with Inclusion in UHP Digital Honors Lounge The Digital Honors Lounge is a digital collaboration space within Microsoft Teams where University Honors Program students can share their experience, learn from one another, and find community. Students can also engage with specific channels that aim to provide a space for like-minded students seeking community, connection, and meaningful action. Channels focus on topics such as allyship with the Black community, connecting with alumni, climate change, and self-care. These are led by University Honors Program staff and student facilitators, who will regularly post content and prompt discussion. If you would like to participate in the Digital Honors Lounge, please email Kyle Key at Kyle.Key@uc.edu. Belong Coordinators The Belong Coordinators focus on fostering awareness and inclusivity among UHP students, staff, and faculty through interactive educational programing. If you want to participate in the Belong Coordinators, please email Bria at Bria.Howard@uc.edu. Peer Mentoring Program The UHP Peer Mentoring Program connects a small group of incoming first year students and a returning student to learn about UHP, UC, Cincinnati and transitioning to college via group meet ups and individual mentorship. If you want to participate in the UHP Peer Mentoring Program, please email Bria at Bria.Howard@uc.edu. If you are looking for ways to create change and take action, please view the resources for engaging in anti-racism work. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top