Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Experience SIPA Global & UN Connections SIPA is the world’s most global public policy school. Our scholars, students, and alumni focus on issues of critical importance around the world. We prepare future leaders to handle transnational challenges of global finance, public health, climate change, energy, development, sustainability, and other issues that demand collective action. You are here Home Experience SIPA A global hub In a typical year, SIPA students and faculty represent nearly 100 countries, with approximately half of our student body coming from overseas. Graduates join a network of more than 20,000 alumni in 156 countries who work in every sector and in every corner of the globe. The School maintains strategic partnerships with graduate institutions in Europe, Asia, and South America through the Global Public Policy Network (GPPN). A deep-rooted connection with the United Nations SIPA’s New York City locations allows for a robust partnership with the United Nations, one of the world’s most critical international organizations. Students' unparalleled access to the UN includes trips to the Security Council, high-level panels with UN staff, working lunches with UN ambassadors, and networking opportunities such as the annual “Day at the UN.” Boundless career opportunities Our alumni pursue careers as varied as the world in which we live. Recent graduates have taken jobs with a wide range of employers—the government of Turkey, the Congressional Research Service, the U.S. Department of State, the United Nations, the World Bank, McKinsey and Company, Deutsche Bank, ABC, Procter & Gamble, the Conservation Fund, the Open Society Institute, the New York City Housing Authority, the New Jersey Department of Education, the California state assembly, Population Services International, the Japan Society, Community Counseling Service, Horn Relief in Africa, and many others. Share This Lisa Mueller-Dormann Video of Lisa Mueller-Dormann Student Perspective The HR concentration allowed me to engage with practitioners from Human Rights Watch, Amnesty, and the Open Society Foundation... Lisa Mueller-Dormann MIA Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216