Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Support for Cyclones Getting Started We know there are a lot resources on campus and it can be hard to figure out where to start. These resources are a great starting point for you. They focus on helping you connect to other resources and share more information about what can help you be successful. Learn More Self-Guided Help We get it, you have really busy schedules and it can be hard to prioritize fitting everything in. We know time and schedules can stand in the way to engaging in activities that support your wellbeing. To help – we created a series of self-guided programs and have some resources available that you can do on your time! Learn More Community Resources College is hard, filled with many highs and sometimes some lows. Staff are here to help assist you throughout your adventure at ISU. ISU has many resources available to you to help with health and wellbeing concerns, social connection, and more. Learn More 24/7 Crisis Support Call 911 ISU Police: 515-294-4428 Central Iowa Crisis Line: 1-855-581-8111 Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 Text ISU Crisis Text Line: Text "ISU" to 741741 Chat National Suicide Prevention Lifeline Visit Emergency Room at Mary Greeley Medical Center 1111 Duff Ave., Ames Here for You As members of our Cyclone family, you have the opportunity to discover new passions, embark on exciting research, meet friends from all over the world, and grow in a creative and innovative environment that challenges and supports you. Your time at Iowa State is expected to be fun and exciting, but sometimes the college experience can also be overwhelming. Iowa State is committed to supporting your wellbeing inside and outside the classroom. We care about your physical and mental health, personal safety, and wellbeing. That's why we have a broad set of resources, services, and people dedicated to helping you be your best; whether you need to speak with a professional or simply connect with others who may be experiencing similar struggles. We are here for you, fellow Cyclone. What Cyclones are Saying Training for Faculty and Staff Did you know? Most students respect peers who seek support for their mental and emotional wellbeing, and peers who intervene when others are facing a crisis situation. 82% of college students shared their wellbeing is just as important as their academic rigor 49% of ISU Students receive counseling for mental health concerns 1,426 visitors to the SHOP in '20-'21 16,764 SafeRide rides in 2019 95% of students who used Student Counseling Services would recommend SCS to a friend 72% of ISU students use Recreation Services Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 515 Morrill Road 2350 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011 Monday- Friday, 8 a.m.- 5 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...