By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate International In this Section Requirements First-Year Checklist Transfer Checklist Enrollment Options Stories Support Services FAQ Syracuse Program in Partnership with Wells College: Information for International Students International Students Wherever you call home, Syracuse University welcomes you. Thousands of international students choose Syracuse every year for its blend of extraordinary academics, legendary spirit, and research, internship and extracurricular opportunities—all offered in a classic campus setting. Português | 中文 | Bahasa Indonesia | 한국어 | Español | العربية | русский | ไทย | Türk | Tiếng Việt New York State is known for being innovative and forward-facing and Syracuse University is at the center of it. Ranked #58 in the nation, and classified in the top tier for research activity among all U.S. doctoral universities, Syracuse is home to many top 20 programs , including architecture, art, communications, entrepreneurship and emerging enterprises, industrial design, and social work, as well as several top ranked graduate programs. Undergraduates can also study at the Maxwell School, recognized as one of the world's best graduate schools for Public Affairs. With more than 200 majors and 100 minors across 13 schools and colleges, Syracuse offers a rigorous private education within an inclusive, welcoming community of students and scholars from all 50 U.S. states and more than 120 countries. More than 4,000 international students are enrolled, about 20% of the total student body. Why Choose Syracuse University? Prepare for a global career through coursework in one of our learning centers in New York City, Los Angeles, and Washington D.C., or study abroad through one of the University’s five overseas centers or World Partner affiliations . We connect you with postgraduate success. 86% of class of 2020 graduates are employed or pursuing an advanced degree.* With numerous career fairs throughout the year, top employers of Syracuse graduates include Amazon, Bloomberg and Lockheed Martin. Top graduate schools include Columbia University, the University of Southern California and Johns Hopkins University. You'll be supported by many services that help ensure a rich and productive experience, including first-year experience programs, faculty and peer advisors, a robust campus safety department, tutoring and study centers, and the Barnes Center at The Arch . When you arrive on campus, a special orientation program will help you adjust to life in the U.S. Our Center for International Services provides the opportunity to participate in English conversation practice groups and attend special events to meet other students from around the world. Choose from more than 300 clubs and organizations , including the Asian Students in America Club, the European Student Association and sports clubs like rugby and soccer. In addition to the natural beauty of the nearby Finger Lakes and Adirondacks, the city of Syracuse offers a wide range of cultural and professional possibilities. Syracuse’s location in the middle of New York State means easy access to Boston, Toronto and Montreal, as well as New York City. *Class of 2020 data is based on a 80% knowledge rate (2,699 out of 3,389 undergraduate degree recipients' responses). Take a tour Ready to apply? Stories from Current Students More than 4,000 international students attend Syracuse University. Support Services As an international student, you can take advantage of the support services offered by Syracuse University to help with your transition to life in Syracuse. Get Started Link International Student Requirements Link Join our global community! You're considered an international student if you are not a U.S. citizen or dual citizen with the U.S., or if you are not a permanent resident of the U.S. Enrollment Options Link International students have three enrollment options when applying to Syracuse University. International First-Year Student Checklist Link Use this checklist if you will be an incoming first-year student and are not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States. International Transfer Student Checklist Link Use this checklist if you are not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States, have graduated from high school, and have earned or are currently earning college credits. Frequently Asked Questions Link How do I apply if I am a dual citizen? If I am not a U.S. citizen, but I live in the United States and go to school here, am I considered an international student? If I am in the process of obtaining permanent residency/green card, how do I apply for admission? What is the minimum preferred TOEFL/IELTS/Cambridge English Language Assessment/PTE score? I attend an American high school (or college) and have been taking classes taught entirely in English. Do I still need to take the TOEFL/IELTS/Cambridge English Language Assessment/PTE? What types of financial documents are necessary to submit as proof of sufficient funding? More frequently asked questions Featured Stories A Leader Finds His Path International student helps first-year students feel welcomed to campus while building his home away from home. Far From Home, Friends and Mentors Become Just Like Family When Michelle Osiyah ventured from her home in Kenya to pursue a passion for technology, the iSchool sophomore brought along an open mind and a joyful spirit. Related Pages Virtual Campus Tour Explore Syracuse University from the comfort of your own home. Cost of Attendance The cost of attendance is an estimate of what it will cost for an international undergraduate student to attend Syracuse University for an academic year. Upcoming Webinars Connect live with admissions staff and a current student to learn about academic opportunities, applying to Syracuse, and programs for international students. Request Information We're here to help you with your college search. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy