Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Meet the Dean Home About Meet the Dean More in this section About What We Stand For Thought Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Driving A Global Mindset Building Global Alliances Developing Global Leaders "Glocal" Perspectives Global Responsibility International Accreditation and Rankings Educating Principled Leaders Dedication to Sustainability Experiential Learning At a Glance Meet the Dean John A. Quelch Life at Miami Herbert Life in Miami | Miami Herbert University of Miami Student Housing Miami Herbert Leadership Miami Herbert’s Advisory Council Academic Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Welcome Message from the Dean Welcome! I’m honored to serve as dean of Miami Herbert Business School at the U. I’m passionate about the vision of the University of Miami under the leadership of President Julio Frenk and excited about the remarkable momentum of our business school. Located in one of the most diverse and dynamic business centers in the world, we offer unparalleled opportunities to learn, engage, and grow. The nation’s seventh-largest metro market, Miami is a magnet for arts, culture, and innovation. Visit our campus, surf our website, or connect with us on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter or Instagram, and you will find a Miami experience like no other. Our students come from over 80 countries and our faculty from over 30. Miami Herbert Business School is building bridges across borders, sustainable business and societal challenges, and fostering entrepreneurship in the capital of Latin America. We are at the forefront of innovation in business education and research. Aligned with our University’s “Roadmap to Our New Century,” Miami Herbert Business School is building bridges across borders, sustainable business and societal challenges, and fostering entrepreneurship in the capital of Latin America. We are at the forefront of innovation in business education and research. A notable example is our new Master of Science in Sustainable Business. Our students learn in more places than ever, with experiential opportunities around the world, and we deliver our programs in more ways than ever. Several of our master’s programs – including our MBA, which marked its 70th anniversary in 2018 – are now also offered fully online. In sum, we offer you multiple ways to customize your degree and your curriculum, and a dedicated career advancement team that will help you maximize your return on investment. The research conducted by our faculty – distinguished thought leaders in their fields – drives business change and shapes public policy. Our impact conferences and distinguished leaders lecture series draw thousands of professionals each year to share ideas on some of the most pressing issues facing business. And our alumni, more than 45,000 strong, are leading global organizations and bringing about positive change across the U.S. and worldwide. This year, more than 1,100 men and women will graduate from Miami Herbert Business School. In addition, hundreds more executives will benefit from our outstanding leadership development programs custom-designed for individual corporations. I encourage you to explore the many benefits of joining our vibrant community. We always welcome hearing from you about your aspirations and career goals. Please email your ideas and questions to businessdean@miami.edu. John Quelch Dean Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback