Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Engineering and Computer Science Civil and Environmental Engineering Main Menu About Prospective Students Show Extended Undergraduate Graduate Current Students Show Extended Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Resources and Services Show Extended Resources Student Success Center CASECS Center Technology Services Financial Aid Award Types Tution News Support Us! Civil and Environmental Engineering Department Welcome to the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department at the California State University, Fullerton. The primary goal of the programs offered by our department is to provide students with the educational background and tools required for them to excel in their intended profession in Civil Engineering. We offer a baccalaureate degree in Civil Engineering. Transfer students are admitted and we work with them closely to ensure that they receive all of their transfer credit in a timely manner. Our Master of Science in Civil Engineering is a 30 unit program. The program allows students to choose courses focusing on Structural Engineering, Construction Engineering and Management, Geotechnical Engineering, and Water Resources Engineering. Course offering in a specific focus depends on enrollment. We encourage students of all baccalaureate backgrounds to apply to our graduate program. We invite you to browse the contents of this website to get an overview of our department. If you are considering applying to our program, we invite you to visit us, to view our facilities and meet our faculty. We hope you will consider California State University, Fullerton as your school of choice to study Civil Engineering. 2021 Review of Orange County’s Infrastructure To enhance the infrastructure literacy of the residents of Orange County, each infrastructure segment review, with the volunteer contributions from UCI Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) Affiliates and the CSUF Civil and Environmental Engineering Department, has been condensed with hyperlinks to further educational sources of information. Announcements Our Undergraduate Civil Engineering Program Ranked among Top 10 in the U.S. CEE’s undergraduate program in civil engineering is ranked #7 in the nation (#4 public university), among non-PhD granting institutions, according to the 2021 US News and World report. Our MS in Civil Engineering Program is ranked among top 25 in the U.S. CEE's MS in Civil engineering program is ranked among the top 25 in the nation, according to the 2020 Grad Reports . Accreditation The Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org Graduate Admission To apply to the M.S. in Civil Engineering program, submit an application and pay the $70 application fee online at Cal State Apply. Please visit the ECS Graduate and International Admissions website for more information. For questions regarding deficiency courses and other eligibility requirements, please email Department Chair. Professional Licensure Disclosure This site is maintained by College of Engineering and Computer Science. Last Published 5/9/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.