Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Award process Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Applying for aid Award process Applying for aid Home Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Login to MyUW to view your Financial Aid Status. You can see details of your award, accept your aid, view messages or actions you need to take and check on the status of your documents submitted to our office. After we receive your application for aid and you are admitted to the University of Washington, we will send you an email if you are eligible for aid, referring you to MyUW where you can review the details of your award (the types and amount of aid for which you qualify). We start awarding in the spring before the next academic year begins. If you receive a “Notice of Preliminary Award” (an estimate of your eligibility for aid) you may accept this initial award; however, we will complete the review of information you provided on your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) before your award can be confirmed. If you receive a “Notice of Award,” then your application has been reviewed and your eligibility confirmed. However, you must accept your award online at MyUW by the date indicated to reserve your aid. Please follow the instructions below to ensure your aid will be ready for you when you start the school year. New students You will need your UW NetID in order to access your online Financial Aid award. For information about setting up your UW NetID go to the link for the campus you will be attending: Seattle, Bothell or Tacoma. Check for errors in address, social security number, or other information about you Read the assumptions (state residency, enrollment status, number of quarters you plan to attend this year). Please contact our office if any of the assumptions are incorrect. If you are not a Washington resident but pay resident tuition because of a departmental appointment or Armed Services status, note the tuition benefit in the Resources Review/Update section in Financial Aid Status on MyUW. Accept or reject each form of aid listed You are under no obligation until aid is disbursed; you may accept an award now and change your mind later. If you reject an award, or don’t accept it by the ‘reply by date’, the award will be cancelled. As we have limited funds the aid may not be able to be restored later if you decide you need it. Federal Direct Stafford Loans, Federal Direct PLUS Loans and Federal Pell Grants can usually be reinstated.You may accept or reject aid from any fund without losing the other aid offered in your award. If you would like us to replace Work Study with a federal loan, then contact our office after you accept your award. We are not able to replace loans with grants and scholarships. Determine how much you want to borrow You may be offered a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan or a Federal Direct PLUS Loan to help meet your financial need or if you are not eligible for need-based assistance. These loans do not include a federal subsidy, so interest begins to accrue after the loan proceeds have been disbursed to you, and repayment on the PLUS loan begins 60 days after the last disbursement (with some deferment of payment available under certain circumstances). These loans should be used as a last resort in financing your education and require additional responsibilities from you, the borrower or your parents for PLUS loans. You may want to review Request Changes to Your Award to determine if your eligibility for need-based assistance should be revised before you borrow from these loan programs. If you have been offered loans and you do not wish to borrow the full amount offered, you may indicate the reduced level to us. If you want to borrow more than we have offered, to replace your family contribution, please contact our office. To view additional information, see the Student Loan Program Chart and Completing Paperwork for Loans. Make sure your award correctly reflects any benefits, scholarships, outside awards, and other resources you will receive or think you may receive, even if it comes from another UW office You must report any information about your resources (and, if married, your spouse’s) that you have not already formally reported to our office. It is imperative that our office has current and complete information on your resources throughout the year; otherwise, you risk being over-awarded and having to repay aid. Permission to release student record information The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) protects the privacy of your education records. As a general rule the University will not release your records to a third party without your written consent. To allow staff in Student Financial Aid to discuss the status of your financial aid award with your parents, spouse, or another person, a release of information form must be completed. You can complete the form online. Understand your obligations as an aid recipient Enroll full-time each quarter and attend all your classes (12 credits for undergraduate, professional and certification students; 10 credits for graduates) unless less than full-time attendance is specifically noted in your award letter. Pass sufficient credits to maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress. Report new sources of support and changes in personal circumstances (e.g., changing from non-resident to resident status, divorce, moving to parents’ home) as soon as you learn of them. Accept your award on MyUW before the reply date Accept your award in MyUW Financial Aid Status before the reply date. If you do not accept it by this date, we will cancel your aid in order to offer it to another student. Once you respond, we will continue processing your application, and you may receive revised award notice emails reflecting changes in your contribution and your award. Review these revisions on MyUW and accept or reject any new aid that has been offered to you. Remember, accepting our aid offer is not the same as accepting your admissions offer. Freshmen need to pay the New Student Orientation Fee (NSEOF) to the Office of Admissions by May 1 to reserve their place. Complete your file You must respond to any requests we make for certification statements, tax returns, or any other documentation needed to finalize your award. Since we cannot disburse any funds until all required information is submitted and reviewed, please reply promptly to any correspondence from us. Receive your financial aid Read more about disbursement Apply for aid for summer If you plan to attend Summer quarter, you will need to complete your FAFSA and a Summer Aid Application. You’ll need your UW NetID and password to apply online for summer quarter aid. Apply between April 1st and May 15th for priority processing. Remember, you’ll need to re-apply next year for aid! Home Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA