Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid HGSE Fellowships The following opportunities are available to residential Ed.M. program applicants Urban Scholars Fellowships The Urban Scholars Fellowship is designed to attract and reward exceptional Ed.M. and C.A.S. candidates who have provided evidence demonstrating their strong commitment to the betterment of urban education. Candidates are selected on the basis of academic excellence, a demonstrated commitment to a career working in urban education, and demonstrated financial need as determined by the HGSE Financial Aid Office. In particular they will have three years minimum of direct work experience or significant volunteer work in urban education settings (primarily urban schools, but also community organizations, non-profits, government agencies, etc.). Urban Scholars receive a fellowship package covering full HGSE tuition and student health insurance fees during the fellowship year, and must be enrolled full-time. The application deadline is January 5, 2022 and is part of the 2022-2023 HGSE Admissions Application. Additionally, applicants must also complete: The HGSE Financial Aid Application and The FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) Leadership in Education Fellowships Leadership in Education Fellowships are given to top Ed.M. degree candidates with strong leadership potential and demonstrated financial need as determined by the HGSE Financial Aid Office. Leadership in Education Fellowship recipients are given a fellowship close to one half of tuition during the one year program. Preference is given to alumni of Teach for America, the Peace Corps, AmeriCorps/VISTA, TeachFirst or other comparable full-time volunteer service programs. Fellowships are determined during the admissions process and no separate application is required. The application deadline is January 5, 2022 and is part of the 2022-2023 HGSE Admissions Application. Additionally, applicants must also complete: The HGSE Financial Aid Application and The FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) Saul Zaentz Fellowships The Saul Zaentz Fellowship Program is designed to attract exceptional students invested in early childhood education to enroll in HGSE's Ed.M. Program, which prepares leaders for critical roles in education policy and practice. The goal of the Saul Zaentz Fellowship Program is to prepare a new generation of leaders for the early childhood field. Candidates are selected on the basis of academic excellence and a demonstrated commitment to a career working in early childhood education. In particular candidates will have 3-5 years or more of direct work experience (paid or as a volunteer) in early childhood education, as a practitioner, researcher, advocate, or policymaker (this may include work in schools, but also in community organizations, non-profits, government work, etc.). In addition to completing the standard Ed.M. curriculum, as part of the Saul Zaentz Initiative, Saul Zaentz Fellows will participate in structured co-curricular, mentoring, and networking opportunities. Saul Zaentz Fellows receive an award package covering half of the HGSE tuition during the fellowship year, and must be enrolled full-time. Preference will be given to candidates who demonstrate financial need as determined by the HGSE Financial Aid Office. The application deadline is January 5, 2022 and is part of the 2022-2023 HGSE Admissions Application. Additionally, applicants must also complete: The HGSE Financial Aid Application and The FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) Zuckerman Fellowships Candidates who already possess an M.D., J.D., M.B.A., D.M.D., or D.D.S. degree, or are currently in the process of obtaining one of those degrees are eligible to apply. Ed.M. and Ed.L.D. candidates will be considered. The application deadline is January 24, 2022. You can find details about the fellowship, eligibility, application process, and more on the Zuckerman Fellows website and in the Zuckerman Fellows brochure. Pforzheimer Fellowships Incoming Ed.M. students who are graduates of Harvard/Radcliffe College are eligible to apply. These fellowships are intended for graduate students who demonstrate significant talent for and commitment to public service. Priority is given to current practitioners. Candidates must submit: A statement of no more than two double-spaced pages in length, describing your commitment to and experience in public service A current curriculum vitae or résumé The HGSE Financial Aid Application The FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) The application deadline is the same as for the HGSE Financial Aid Application, and application materials may be submitted via e-mail to finaid@gse.harvard.edu. The following opportunities are available to residential Ed.M. program applicants and part-time, online Ed.M. program applicants Barakett Family Fellowships Barakett Family Fellowships are intended for deserving Ed.M. degree candidates that demonstrate financial need as determined by the HGSE Financial Aid Office. The recipients are given a fellowship close to one half of tuition during the one-year program, which may be prorated for part-time study. Part-time, online Ed.M. applicants are also eligible. To be considered for the Barakett Family Fellowship applicants must complete, by February 11, 2022: The HGSE Financial Aid Application and The FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) James Bryant Conant Fellowships The James Bryant Conant Fellowship fund was established to support the professional growth of outstanding teachers and administrators under contract with the Boston and Cambridge public schools who are accepted to HGSE degree programs. Those interested in these competitive, full-tuition awards should consult their unions or school administrative offices concerning the tenure or professional status requirements of their school systems. There is a separate application required, which is found below. Conant Fellowships are one-year awards which may be prorated for part-time study. Part-time, online Ed.M. applicants are also eligible. Fellows are required to return to their school systems for a minimum of one year after completing the HGSE degree. The 2022-2023 application packet is found below, and the application deadline is February 11, 2022. Conant Overview and Application (pdf) Conant Frequently Asked Questions (pdf) The following opportunities are available to part-time, online Ed.M. program applicants HGSE Community Impact Fellowships HGSE Community Impact Fellowships are intended for deserving part-time, online Ed.M. degree candidates who demonstrate financial need as determined by the HGSE Financial Aid Office. To be considered for the fellowship, candidates must reside and make impact in rural communities, and/or be first-generation students, and/or come from communities traditionally underrepresented in graduate school settings. The recipients are given a fellowship close to one half of tuition each semester over the entire course of study. To be considered for the HGSE Community Impact Fellowship applicants must complete, by February 11, 2022: The HGSE Financial Aid Application and The FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Financial Aid Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice