Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation School of Music College of Design Main navigation About History Chair's Welcome Equity in Music Tech Support the School Contact Us Academics Student Research Showcase Ensemble Projects Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Science in Music Technology Dual Bachelors and Masters Degree Program Bachelor of Science in Computational Media Undergraduate Minors Your Advisor Graduate Programs Master of Science in Music Technology Ph.D. in Music Technology Dual Degree Program Prospective Students Ensembles Research Student Life Student Organizations Practice Room Rentals Locker Rentals People News and Events Open Search Search We Design the Future of Music We Design the Future of Music We’re a different kind of music school. We teach our students to master today’s latest music technologies, and give them the tools to design the future of how we create and experience music. About the School Prospective Students Music at Tech Undergraduate Programs Learn more about our Undergraduate program, and the minors we offer. Graduate Programs Read about our Master of Science and Ph. D degrees in Music Technology. Ensembles Learn more about the numerous ensemble classes offered by the School of Music. Research Look into the various research labs at the Georgia Tech Center for Music Technology. Students Touch the Future of Music at Guthman Competition For Georgia Tech's music technology majors, the Guthman Musical Instrument Competition represents the pinnacle event of their creative study and research. Students help produce the concert, exhibit their work, and learn from the judges and competitors. They even get to play the instruments! Read the full article Assistant Professor Brittney Boykin at the Kennedy Center Brittney Boykin is one of the composers for The Cartography Project, a Kennedy Center-commissioned project that maps Black dignity across the country. Her work was premiered at the Kennedy Center on March 7, 2022. Learn More about the Cartography Project at the Kennedy Center FOREST A Robot & Human Experience Through Sound FOREST is the performative outcome of an NSF funded project aimed at enhancing trust between humans and robots through sound and gesture. Researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology found that embedding emotion-driven sounds and gestures in robotic arms help establish trust and likability between humans and their AI counterparts. Read Full Story Learn More About FOREST Our Recent Work Our faculty publish their research and academic advancement to several professional journals, as well as to SmarTech, the Georgia Tech library’s repository for Institute intellectual property. Use the links below to experience some of our most recent work! Winters, Mike; Walker, Bruce; Leslie, Grace "Can You Hear My Heartbeat?: Hearing an Expressive Biosignal Elicits Empathy" Freeman, Jason, et al. "EarSketch: Engaging Broad Populations in Computing Through Music." Pati, Ashis and Lerch, Alexander "Attribute-based Regularization of VAE Latent Spaces" Ting, Chaowen "When Repertoire is Curriculum: What We Do Not Teach in Collegiate Orchestras" Listening to Heartbeats ‘Boosts’ Empathy New auditory technique changing emotional perception and connection Lead investigator and recent Georgia Tech Ph.D. graduate, Mike Winters conducted the research in the newly formed Brain Music Lab, led by Grace Leslie in the Georgia Tech School of Music. The study applied knowledge of the well-known emotional effects of musical tempo with applied knowledge in sonification and experimental design that Winters had picked up working with Bruce Walker in the Sonification Lab. Read the Story Brain Music Lab Leading the Change Jason Barnes and others are leading the way to a more accessible world Since 2013, Jason has been working with Gil Weinberg, a renowned roboticist and founding director of the Georgia Tech Center for Music Technology, to develop the world’s most advanced robotic drumming arm. Their latest design uses Google’s open source machine learning platform, TensorFlow. Learn More About Jason's Work Ways To Get Involved Atlanta: A City of Music, Culture, and Opportunity Atlanta is one of the country's major cultural capitals, home to Grammy-winning artists in styles ranging from classical to hip hop. Georgia Tech is at the center of it all: Our students are part of the city's music and technology scene, and Atlanta's musical leaders recognize the value our students bring to their industries. Learn More about Atlanta and Music Tech Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in