Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Campus Life FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Living on Campus Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Español FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Who is required to live on campus? All first- and second-year students are required to live on campus in SMU’s Residential Commons. The on-campus requirement is also met by second-year students who are eligible to reside in SMU Greek housing.First-Year transfer students who are under the age of 20 by the first day of classes must also live on campus. Traditional transfer students may request, but are not guaranteed, housing. How many students live on campus? Approximately 2,640 first- and second-year undergraduate students live in 11 Residential Commons. Three hundred (300) upperclass and graduate students live in seven residence halls. When do I sign up for housing? After you've been admitted to SMU and we receive your nonrefundable $750 Orientation, Housing and Matriculation deposit ($335 Orientation Fee, which includes orientation and Stampede and the $100 Housing Deposit and $250 Matriculation Fee), you will receive an email with directions on how to apply for housing. When do I get my health form? The Health History Form is downloaded from the Health Center website and must be completed before you complete orientation. Can I request a roommate? Yes, as long as you and your friend request each other. Preferred roommate's name and social security number must be provided. Do you have co-ed housing? Yes, all residence halls are co-ed, by wing, floor, or suite, depending on the layout of the hall. Where do I eat on campus? Residential dining facilities are located on the lower level of the Umphrey Lee Center and at Arnold Dining Commons. Additional restaurants are located at the Hughes-Trigg Student Center, McElvaney Hall, Owen Arts Center, and the Fincher Building. For more information, visit smudining.com. What kind of facilities are available at the Health Center? The SMU Memorial Health Center is a professionally staffed outpatient primary care clinic, including pharmacy, lab and x-ray facilities, as well as counseling, testing, and alcohol and drug education centers. For more information, visit the Health Center website. What is the alcohol policy on campus? SMU expects all students to be responsible citizens and to abide by all federal, state, and local laws. More information can be found in the SMU Student Handbook. Are first-year students allowed to register cars on campus? First-year students are allowed to have cars on campus, although parking space is limited. The car must be registered with the SMU police. For more information, visit SMU Parking Services. When may I rush a fraternity or sorority? SMU has a deferred rush that starts in January for first-year students. Students interested in pledging a fraternity or sorority must have successfully completed at least 12 semester hours in residence at a college or university during their last semester enrolled in that college or university preceding the pledging period and must have a minimum 2.50 GPA for that previous semester and a cumulative 2.50 GPA at all colleges or universities previously attended at the time of beginning pledgeship/new member education. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search