Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry Opportunities and Events There are a lot of opportunities to interact with Creative Inquiry throughout the year. We are proud to present the following Opportunities for CI Faculty and Students as well as opportunities for all Clemson University students. Opportunities for CI Students & Faculty Opportunities for All Clemson Students Other Services and Opportunities Focus on Creative Inquiry Poster Forum, April 6-8, 2022Closed All Creative Inquiry projects are asked to present their work at the annual Focus on Creative Inquiry Poster Forum (FoCI). Our next FoCI is on April 6-8, 2022. Read more CI Travel GrantsOpen For 2021-2022 The Creative Inquiry program offers competitive grants for CI project teams to present their work at professional conferences. Grants partially support undergraduate student co-authors and accompanying mentor travel. Travel Grant Application Carr Family EndowmentOpen Each year applications will be accepted for the Carr Family Endowed Creative Inquiry Project. This award provides funding for up to one year to projects engaged in relevant research projects. New or existing CI projects are eligible to apply. Projects must focus on one or more of the following areas: Rural Economic Development Rural Community/Business Development Fruit, Vegetable/Crop production Production Agriculture Industries Click here to find out more Summer CI & Undergraduate Research ProgramClosed Creative Inquiry mentors are invited to nominate undergraduate students for the 2021 Summer CI & UR Program. This award provides student salaries while participating in a 10-week research program. Eligibility is restricted to undergraduate students who: will not graduate earlier than December 2021. Preference will be given to students that were enrolled in a Fall 2020-Spring 2021 CI project OR are preregistered for Fall 2021 projects. The Phil and Mary Bradley Award for Creative Inquiry MentoringClosed Students participating in a CI can nominate their CI faculty and/or graduate student mentor for the Phil and Mary Bradley Award. This award recognizes faculty for their outstanding work mentoring a Creative Inquiry team. Click here to find out more NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) The Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) program supports active research participation by undergraduate students in any of the areas of research funded by the National Science Foundation. REU projects involve students in meaningful ways in ongoing research programs or in research projects specifically designed for the REU program. Most REU applications are due by early February. Search for an REU Student Opportunity Center Creative Inquiry partnered with the Student Opportunity Center (SOC) to bring Clemson undergraduate students over 8000 presentation, publishing, internships, and funding opportunities. The SOC is a database and community platform where students are connected with academic engagement opportunities. Check out the Student Opportunity Center Clemson Student Research ForumClosed This poster forum is open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, as an interdisciplinary event to present their research as a paper or digital poster. Read more CI Services Check out our Services page to find out what services CI offers to the Clemson campus and community. Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events Bradley Award Carr Family Endowment Mentor Forum FOCI Poster Forum Services Student Opportunity Center Clemson Student Research Forum Beckman Scholars Program CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram