By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Central Europe More from this Section Semester Programs Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks Central Europe Come study abroad in Wroclaw, Poland, a beautiful metropolis with a vibrant student population, and travel to eight cities in six countries. Central Europe’s history as a contested region and its years behind the Iron Curtain make it an ideal place to learn about transforming economies, evolving political and legal structures, efforts at finding a place in the international community and the resilience of local culture and identity. This program is fall semester only. There is no language requirement to enroll in this program, though we recommend including a Polish class in your course selection. Begin Your Application Syracuse Central Europe Courses The Syracuse Central Europe featured program is anchored in our partner institution, the University of Lower Silesia in Wroclaw, and most of the program courses are taught here. The award-winning curriculum guides your exploration of this rapidly changing area and investigation into history, migration, assimilation, socioeconomic change and identity. You can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by the same exceptional standards that apply in every other aspect of a Syracuse University academic experience. Your courses may fulfill curricular requirements so you can stay on track to graduate on time. Study in Depth The Central Europe program offers depth in the following areas of study: Anthropology and urban history WWII and the Holocaust Gender and sexuality Memory and history Central Eastern European societies and transitions Diversity and ethnic identity Polish language and culture Psychology Economics Wondering if Central Europe is the right fit for you? Refine your Syracuse Abroad options to discover the program that best fits your academic goals. Semester Programs Link Syracuse’s Central Europe program is a fall semester only option. In addition to Poland you will visit cities in Germany, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Travel with Purpose Link Syracuse Central Europe starts with two weeks of guided travel to Berlin, Vienna, Prague, Budapest, Bratislava, Warsaw and Krakow. Your studies will include many site visits and guest speakers, and you will have extensive opportunities for independent work, reflection and creativity. At Home in Central Europe Link Your Syracuse Abroad experience is enhanced through your housing options. In Wroclaw, you will live in a comfortable residential complex in the historic center of the city. The neighborhood is filled with shops, cafes, galleries and small restaurants, so you can fully participate in city life. (P.S. Poland is inexpensive!) World Ready. Career Ready. Link Interested in an internship in Wroclaw? Use this as an opportunity to apply classroom lessons to real work situations, explore career options and develop professional skills! We will work with you to find the placement that best suits your interests and qualifications through established relationships in many business sectors of Central Europe. Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Link Yes! We work with you to make studying abroad within reach. Your Syracuse University tuition is your study abroad tuition. Your financial aid package may apply, plus there are other assistance options including scholarships, grants and awards. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Featured Stories Hanz Valbuena Builds an International Community With a creative approach to life, the Remembrance Scholar enjoys connecting with people from around the globe and uses his media skills to bring them together. Related Pages Why Syracuse Abroad? Students from all over the world choose Syracuse Abroad for its academic excellence, unique programming and dedicated faculty and staff. Syracuse Abroad offers flexible study options and generous financial aid so you can build the knowledge and skills that will help you succeed anywhere. Requirements and Deadlines Ready to apply? Learn more about requirements, deadlines and what you need to begin your application. Information for Accepted Students Have you already been accepted into a study abroad program? Learn what steps you need to take next! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy