Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Other Drugs Other Drugs Columbia students make smart, safe, and responsible decisions about drug use. The majority of Columbia students — more than 94 percent in the last three months — did not use illegal drugs, according to a 2019 survey (Columbia University Morningside ACHA-NCHA, Spring 2019). In addition, more than 95 percent of students have not used prescription drugs not prescribed to them in the last three months. There are many different types of drugs, including stimulants, depressants, and hallucinogens, just to name a few. All drugs, legal or illegal, have risks. To learn more about the different types of drugs, check out the categories below. Expand all Collapse all Caffeine, Energy Boosters, and Other Performance-enhancing Drugs Performance enhancing drugs, such as caffeine or steroids, have been used to increase energy, strength, and stamina. However, these substances are also sometimes addictive, illegal, and may have long- and short-term health consequences. Learn more at the Go Ask Alice! Caffeine, Energy Boosters, & Other Performance Enhancing Drugs archives. Cocaine, Speed, and Other Stimulants Stimulants are a type of drug that increases blood pressure, heart rate, and energy and makes the user more alert. Some stimulants may be prescribed for a few health conditions, including Attention-deficient hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), narcolepsy, and depression. Learn more about stimulants at the Go Ask Alice! Cocaine, Speed, & Other Stimulants archives. Inhalants Inhalants are chemicals breathed in from common sources including glue, markers, cleaners, and spray cans for the psychoactive effects. They are often not considered “drugs” because this is not the intended use of the product. Inhalants can be both depressants and stimulants. Using inhalants can lead to short-term health issues such as nausea and vomiting, or more long-term concerns including damage to the nervous system and kidney and liver damage. Learn more about inhalants at the Go Ask Alice! Inhalants archives. LSD, PCP, and Other Hallucinogens Hallucinogens are chemicals found in plants (including certain mushrooms) that produce a mind-altering (psychoactive) effect. These drugs come in pills and liquids, and sometimes the plant itself is eaten. Hallucinogens distort reality and can lead to severe mood swings. However, it is difficult to say exactly what happens when a hallucinogen is used because they can affect people very differently. Learn more about hallucinogens at the Go Ask Alice! LSD, PCP, & Other Hallucinogens archives Prescription and Over-the-counter Drugs Prescription drugs are medications prescribed by a health care provider for a specific individual to use. Over-the-counter drugs are legal drugs available without a prescription. Both of these types of medications are intended to be used to treat health issues; however, sometimes they are used improperly, or they are used by someone who did not receive the prescription. This can lead to many different adverse health issues. Learn more about prescription and over-the-counter drugs at the Go Ask Alice! Prescription & Over-the-Counter Drugs archives. Sedatives, Tranquillizers, and Other Depressants Sedatives are substances that slow down the activity of the brain. They are typically prescribed to help with anxiety or sleeping issues. Some have the potential to be addictive or lead to other health issues. Learn more about sedatives at the Go Ask Alice! Sedatives, Tranquillizers, & Other Depressants archives. Tobacco Tobacco is found in many different forms, including cigarettes, e-cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, and chewing tobacco. All forms of tobacco contain nicotine, a highly addictive stimulant. It is absorbed into the bloodstream when tobacco or nicotine products are chewed, inhaled, or smoked. More than half of students reported never using tobacco products (Data from Columbia University Morningside ACHA-NCHA, Spring 2019). Interested in Quitting? Check out our Tobacco Cessation program. University Guidelines and Policies on Smoking Columbia Health follows the guidelines and policies set forth in the University Smoking Policy. All students, faculty, and staff are expected to comply with this policy. Learn more about tobacco at the Go Ask Alice! Cigarettes, Chewing Tobacco, & Other Nicotine archives. Signs of a Problem with Drugs There are many signs that indicate addiction to a substance: Feeling the need to use the substance regularly to function normally (daily or multiple times a day) Using the substance as a stress management or coping mechanism Engaging in behaviors normally not undertaken while under the influence of the substance Being unable to stop using the substance after trying Spending money on the substance, even when there is no money for it Making sure some of the substance is always available for use Engaging in behaviors normally not undertaken to get the substance (e.g., stealing) If you are concerned you or a friend has a problem with drug use, consider making an appointment to meet with a BASICS provider at Alice! Health Promotion or a mental health professional at Counseling and Psychological Services. Campus Guidelines and Policies Columbia Health follows the guidelines and policies set forth in Essential Policies on alcohol and other drug use. To comply with federal, state, and city laws, and to promote the health and well-being of its community, Columbia has enacted policies on alcohol and drugs. All students, faculty, and staff are expected to comply with these policies. Also take note of information found in the Columbia Housing Guide to Living, including policies and procedures on alcohol and other drugs, and the Responsible Community Action Policy. Guidelines and policies may vary by school. Please check with your school for more information. Related Resources Alice! Health Promotion Go Ask Alice! Alcohol and Other Drugs archives American Cancer Society's Guide to Quitting Smoking Medical Services National Institute on Drug Abuse NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, 24-hour hotline (1-800-LIFENET) NYS Smokers’ Quitline Topic Alcohol Marijuana Preventative Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close