Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact Home College Credit Plus High School Partnerships High School Partnerships Thank you for your interest in high school partnerships. Please refer to the information below based on your role. Current Partnerships School Counselors and CCP Coordinators School Administrators For any questions regarding CCP-High School partnerships, please contact email ccp@uc.edu. Current Partnerships If your high school is not listed, you are still eligible to apply for CCP coursework on campus or online. Batavia High School Loveland High School Reading High School Bethel-Tate High School Madeira Junior/Senior High School School for Creative and Performing Arts Catholic Central High School Archbishop McNicholas High School Seton High School Clermont Northeastern High School Archbishop Moeller High School Talawanda High School Colerain High School Mount Notre Dame High School Villa Madonna Academy* Deer Park High School New Richmond High School Walnut Hills High School Elder High School North College Hill High School West Clermont High School Georgetown High School Northwest High School Williamsburg High School Goshen High School Norwood High School Withrow University High School Grant Career Center Notre Dame Academy* Kings High School Oak Hills High School LaSalle High School Princeton High School * denotes Dual Enrollment partnership outside of Ohio ► Return to Top School Counselors and CCP Coordinators CCP Application Process The CCP application process requires a good deal of cooperation between the school counselor/CCP coordinator and the student. See all application requirements and deadlines. CCP Information Sessions School counselors and CCP coordinators also coordinate College Credit Plus information sessions for students and families as required by the state. The state mandates that information sessions take place between October 1 and February 15 each school year. To request a CCP staff member for your CCP information session, please email us with your requested session date and time at ccp@uc.edu. We will then confirm with you our availability on your selected date. CCP Data Reporting and Records We also work closely with school counseling staff and CCP coordinators throughout the year to assist with the registration process as well as enrollment verification and submission of final grades for CCP coursework attempted. ► Return to Top School Administrators Funding Structure The University of Cincinnati uses the default funding structure for payment. The College Credit Plus program default funding structure is established by Ohio Revised Code 3365.07. The CCP default amounts are based on the Per Pupil Foundation rate that is determined by Ohio's General Assembly and may change annually. Memorandum of Understanding Schools/Districts will sign an MOU which outlines the provisions and guidelines of the CCP program at UC Uptown (sample PDF of our MOU) ► Return to Top Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.