Skip to main content Restrict my search to Equal Opportunity Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) About EOS Staff Anti-Discrimination Anti-Discrimination Policy Anti-Discrimination Coordinators Anti-Discrimination Resources Anti-Discrimination FAQs Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy Consensual Relationship Policy Title IX Coordinators Title IX Resources SB 212 ADA/Section 504 Policies: Student & Employee Policy for Students Policy for Employees ADA Coordinators ADA Resources ADA FAQs EIR Accessibility EIRA Policy EIRA Coordinators EIRA Resources Blackboard Ally Accessibility Terms Defined Self-Guided Learning Access University Accessibility Options EIRA FAQs EIRA Regulations Workforce Diversity Workforce Diversity Policy Workforce Diversity Resources Workforce Diversity FAQs Contact Us UH Home Equal Opportunity Services EIR Accessibility EIRA FAQs EIR Accessibility EIRA Policy EIRA Coordinators EIRA Resources EIRA FAQs EIRA Regulations EIR Accessibility FAQs What are Electronic and Information Resources (EIR)? Electronic and Information Resources (EIR) are technologies that provide access to information through telecommunications, with a focus on communication technologies (e.g. website content and multimedia). Texas law defines EIR, in part, as "information technology and any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment used to create, convert, duplicate, store, or deliver data or information." See the full definition from the Texas Administrative Code (TAC) 213. What does EIR accessibility mean? Accessibility means that websites, tools, and technologies are designed and developed so that people with disabilities can use them. More specifically, people with disabilities can perceive, understand, navigate, interact with, and contribute to EIRs. The functional definition of accessibility states that people with disabilities must be provided the opportunity to (1) acquire the same information, (2) engage in the same interactions, (3) enjoy the same services as people without disabilities, with (4) "substantially equivalent ease of use." EIR must be usable to people of all abilities in an equitable manner. This can be achieved by either implementing accessible technologies or via an accommodation that provides an equitable experience. What is the technical standard for accessibility? The technical standards for accessibility, as defined by Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, mirror the international Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), Level AA. While WCAG applies to web developer content, its standards have been incorporated in many word processor and content creator applications and their tools. Who is responsible for providing accessible content? Accessibility is a shared responsibility, beginning with content authors. Whether it is created in Microsoft Word, Blackboard, or HTML, authors must produce accessible content before it is shared with their communities. When the content is curated from an external source, the author must do their due diligence in selecting accessible content. This can be as simple as finding and citing accessibility support information from the original source. Who is responsible for supporting accessibility at UH? The EIR Accessibility Coordinator is responsible for supporting accessibility within the University of Houston System (UHS). If you have a question regarding accessibility, please contact the appropriate administrator for the technology in question. If the issue cannot be resolved, the appropriate administrator should escalate the concern to the EIR Accessibility Coordinator. Please note that each UHS campus has a designated EIR Accessibility Coordinator who communicates regularly with the System coordinator. Contact information can be found on the EIRA Coordinators page. How do I report an accessibility issue? If you experience a barrier that affects your ability to access UH websites, videos, online forms, or other EIR, please send a detailed message to the EIR Accessibility Coordinator at accessibility@uh.edu. Equal Opportunity Services 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713.743.8835 eos@uh.edu A-Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Human Resources Libraries Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies