Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home For Donors Donor Services Privacy Information Your right to privacy is very important to us. We recognize that providing your personal information is an act of trust. We are committed to protecting your privacy and being transparent about it. All information we obtain, hold and process is handled responsibly and securely, and used to conduct Iowa State University business. The Privacy Policy for Iowa State University alumni, supporters and friends outlines your privacy rights and explains our practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of visitor information. If you would like to update your information, update your contact preferences, or opt-out of future communications, please go to www.foundation.iastate.edu/update or contact us at privacy@foundation.iastate.edu. You can also view the information held in your record by registering for the site using the "First Time Login" link on the top of this page. Why Register for the Site? When you visit the ISU Foundation website, you remain anonymous. We do not require you to register or provide personal information in order to view our site. An optional site registration feature is provided to allow for better customer service, enabling us to respond to your needs by providing you with services that may be valuable to you, such as: View and update your Iowa State record Streamline the online giving process Register for an event Access tax receipts Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Donor Services Privacy Information Public Transparency Charity Registration and Disclosure Statement Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top