Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton Profiles: Naoum Fares Marayati, student in the service of humanity by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications March 1, 2017, noon Play video: Play Video: Princeton Profiles: Naoum Fares Marayati, student in the service of humanity Sophomore Naoum Fares Marayati, a psychology major from Syria and North Carolina, stays busy studying psychology, advising students in Forbes College, singing in an a cappella group and exploring new interests. (Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Sophomore Naoum Fares Marayati is taking in as much of his Princeton experience as he can. When Marayati is not studying for his next class, you may find him guiding a tour in the Princeton University Art Museum, tutoring at the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning, singing with the Umqombothi a cappella group or hosting a study break at Forbes College, his favorite community on campus. The psychology major from Aleppo, Syria, and North Carolina attributes his growth on campus to a value Princeton has taught him: to be in the service of humanity. Marayati plans to take this value into the future as he hopes to become a neurosurgeon. "Whether it was in my career, what I'm doing on campus, I really strive to be in service of everyone," Marayati said. In addition to his coursework and extracurricular activities, Marayati works in the Princeton Baby Lab as a research assistant. The lab focuses on how babies and young children learn and perceive the world around them. Marayati has many responsibilities in the lab including running experiments for current studies. "[Fares] immediately gave me the impression that he is an intellectual force, that he is somebody who contributes to the community, that he has an enterprising spirit," Casey Lew-Williams, assistant professor of psychology and co-director of the Princeton Baby Lab, said. "And every interaction I've had with him since then, whether in the lab or over a meal at Forbes College or Butler College, has truly confirmed that." At the end of a busy day, Marayati looks forward to going to his home on campus, Forbes College. At Forbes, Marayati is a peer academic adviser, was recently a member of the Forbes College Council and will be an assistant residential college adviser next fall. "Being involved in Forbes has really strengthened the community feel," Marayati said. "Forbes has become my home very quickly. It's very comforting to know that at the end of the day, when all my classes are over, when all my work is over, I can just go back home." Related Stories Princeton Profiles: Naoum Fares Marayati, student in the service of humanity Read more Princeton graduate Naoum Fares Marayati selected as Mitchell Scholar Read more Baby talk: Looking inside young minds for clues to early learning Read more Freshman Scholars Institute: Summer study leads to year-round success Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Read more Seniors Agolia, Nelson named Pyne Prize winners Read more Residential college exchange connects cultures Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice