Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Research Administration Institutional Review Board Getting Started How to Submit to the IRB IRB Reliance Resources Forms, Templates, & Resources Policies & Regulations Wichita Campus Research Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Research Administration Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Research Administration Services Services Office of Clinical Trial Administration Research Contracts Financial Services Research Systems Research Training & Communications Institutional Review Board Research Administration Institutional Review Board Institutional Review Board Getting Started How to Submit to the IRB IRB Reliance Resources Forms, Templates, & Resources Policies & Regulations Wichita Campus Research Sponsored Programs Administration Sponsored Programs Administration Find Funding Proposal Review & Submission Award Acceptance & Set-Up Award Monitoring & Reporting Award Extension & Closeout Forms, Guides & Resources About About People Events and Deadlines Institutional Review Board Wichita Campus Research All human subjects research on the Wichita campus comes under the auspices of the KUMC Human Research Protection Program (HRPP). Please visit our website at Human Research Protection Program Research on the Wichita campus can be reviewed either by the KUMC IRB in Kansas City or by one of the IRBs with whom we have reliance arrangements. We are committed to efficiently assisting faculty in Wichita with their study implementation. The KUMC HRPP has a local IRB liaison on the Wichita campus: Rachel Marsh IRB Liaison Phone: 316-293-2610 Email: rmarsh@kumc.edu Which IRB should I apply to? Research involving participants in KUSM-W clinics, University of Kansas Health System clinics or community populations in Wichita or Kansas City. (The clinics include KU Wichita Internal Medicine, KU Wichita Internal Medicine Midtown, KU Wichita Functional Medicine, KU Wichita Gastroenterology, and KU Wichita Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, all clinics associated with the Kansas City) Apply to the KUMC IRB Research involving patients or patient records from Ascension Via Christi Hospitals (AVC) and clinics Email the Common Form Application, the Administrative Certification/Scientific Merit Review Form and all study-related materials to: Rachel Marsh rmarsh@kumc.edu and Annette Latta at annette.latta@ascension.org Research involving patients or patient records from Wesley Medical Center and clinics Email the Wesley Reliance Studies Form, Administrative Certification/Scientific Merit Review Form and all study-related materials to Rachel Marsh rmarsh@kumc.edu to obtain clearance to use a Wesley IRB. After KUSM-W clearance is obtained, follow the application process to the appropriate Wesley IRB as instructed. Research involving faculty, students or resources from Wichita State University (WSU). If the resources involve personnel or resources from WSU and do not involve patient populations: Apply to the KUMC IRB using the KUMC IRB application forms Complete the Common Form Application and email it to IRB@Wichita.edu. The Wichita State IRB representative will confirm permission to rely on KUMC. Use of a commercial IRB (Western IRB or Advarra IRB) or an IRB from another academic institution. Obtain clearance from the KUMC IRB Reliance Program. Instructions and resources are at: Reliance on External IRBs Important Links for the Wichita Campus Contact Information page for the whole team in IRB on the KUMC-KC page Wichita Office of Research If the KUMC IRB review is selected above, what level of review is required? At KUMC there are 5 IRB review and application types: Flexible IRB Review Projects that are minimal risk and are not associated with federal funding or support may qualify for Flexible IRB Review. Examples include behavioral interventions or minimal-risk biomedical procedures. Flexible IRB review allows abbreviated IRB applications and consent forms, streamlined review by IRB Chair or staff members and elimination of the continuing review requirement. Visit Flexible IRB Review for more detailed information. Secondary Research Secondary research involves the analysis of data or specimens that have been or will be collected for non-research purposes. Secondary research may also include analysis of data or specimens that were collected under other research protocols. Examples include chart reviews, use of existing specimen repositories, and big data research. Exempt Research Exempt research involves low risk studies, federally funded or supported, that meet criteria specified by federal regulations. Examples include online surveys, interviews and focus groups, and research on education or curricula. Expedited Research Expedited research includes studies, federally funded or supported, that meet specific categories in the federal regulations and involve no greater than minimal risk. Expedited review procedures allow the IRB to review without convening a full IRB meeting. Examples include analysis of non-invasive collection of biospecimens, MRI studies, creating a data registry or repository for future studies, or minimal risk behavioral interventions. Full-Board Review Full-board studies are those that do not qualify for any of four categories above. These studies are reviewed at convened board meetings. KUMC IRB meetings occur four times monthly. Two charts provide additional help to select the appropriate application form: IRB application type for projects under federal regulation IRB application type for projects when federal regulations do not apply Contact Us Human Research Protection Program Rachel Marsh IRB Administrator Phone: 316-293-2610 Fax: 316-293-2628 Email: rmarsh@kumc.edu KU School of Medicine-Wichita Office of Research Research Administration University of Kansas Medical Center Research Administration Mailstop 1039 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 OFFICE LOCATION: Fairway North, 1000 4330 Shawnee Mission Pkwy Fairway, KS 66205 Phone: 913-588-1261 Fax: 866-255-2129 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.