Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Diversity and Community Engagement Student Life Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Welcome to Columbia Engineering's Office of Graduate Student Affairs (GSA)! In light of current conditions, the GSA plans to operate remotely. However, we are still here to support our students. We have planned a wide range of virtual activities for our to students to enegage in community buidling, professional development, cultural exploration, wellness, and other topics that can complement your student experience. Engineering Community Engagement Affinity Student Organizations Student groups within the Columbia Engineering embody this mission by promoting awareness, education, and community-building through thoughtful and thought-provoking academic and extracurricular experiences. Below are just a few of the student-led groups that reflect and help to promote diversity and inclusion in our engineering community. AISES: American Indian Science & Engineering Society (GSA Advisor: Andy Chae) CORE^2: Coalition on Race and Ethnicity in Engineering (GSA Advisors: Yannick Brookes) CUCSSA: Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association (Columbia Univeristy Advisor: Andy Chae (Acting)) GradSWE: Graduate Society of Woment Engineers (GSA Advisor: Andy Chae) NSBE: National Society of Black Engineers (U/GSA Liaision: Adrieanna Reyes) SHPE: Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (GSA Advisors: Adrieanna Reyes) qSTEM: Queer in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (GSA Advisor: Andy Chae) WICS: Women in Computer Science (GSA Advisor: Andy Chae) 2021 - 2022 GEM Fellows The National GEM Consortium is a network of leading corporations, government laboratories, top universities, and top research institutions that enables qualified students from underrepresented communities to pursue graduate education in applied science and engineering. Columbia University is a proud affiliate institution, hosting GEM fellows. Delfina Agustina Rodriguez Biomedical Engineering The University of Florida Miami, FL Alicia Washington MS Candidate in Computer Electriering Morgan State University (BS) Lorain, OH Arielle S Joasil PhD Candidate in Electrical Engineering University of Massachusetts, Lowell (BS) University of Massachusetts, Lowell (MS) Brockton, MA Marvin Bennett Jr. MS Candidate in Mechanical Engineering Carnegie Mellon University (BS) Laurel, MD Kailande Cassamajor MS Candidate in Data Science Andrea Ogilvie Clark-Sevilla MS Candidate in Computer Science Julian Daniel Velandia Arango MS Candidate in Electrial Engineering Kaylee Trevino MS Candidate in Computer Science 2020 - 2021 GEM Fellows The National GEM Consortium is a network of leading corporations, government laboratories, top universities, and top research institutions that enables qualified students from underrepresented communities to pursue graduate education in applied science and engineering. Columbia University is a proud affiliate institution, hosting GEM fellows. Christophe Brown is a Master's student in the Electrical Engineering department. He earned his undergraduate degree from North Carolina State University. Isaac Donis is a Master's student in the Electrical Engineering department. He earned his undergraduate degree from New York University. Wendy Fernandez is a Master's student in the Electrical Engineering department. She earned her undergraduate degree from City College of New York. Niabelle Thelemaque is a Master's student in the Electrical Engineering department. She earned her undergraduate degree from the University of Central Florida. Anneliese Trujillo is a Master's student in the Chemical Engineering department. She earned her undergraduate degree from New Mexico State University. Kevin Womack is a Master's student in the Data Science Institute. He earned his undergraduate degree from Morehouse College. Student Organizations Through student groups and organizations, students can pursue their interests outside of the classroom. Please be sure to visit the website for a full listing of student groups. Graduate Student Life Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC) EGSC is the student governing body of the graduate students of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science at Columbia University. Get Involved with EGSC Engineering Wellness Engineering Wellness provides resources and services in order to promote general wellness for students. Engineering Wellness is a part of the Graduate Student Affairs (GSA) at Columbia University, School of Engineering. Click here for more information Meet the Office of Graduate Student Affairs We are here to serve as a resource for you to navigate your way through Columbia Engineering! Contact Graduate Student Affairs Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University