We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × About Us Welcome from the Dean Dean's Office Dean's Leadership Board Industry Advisory Councils Engineering Maps Mission & Vision Strategic Planning College Rankings Faculty & Staff Directory Organizational Chart Fact Sheet Academics Undergraduate Programs - Aerospace Engineering - Chemical & Materials Engineering - Civil Engineering - Electrical & Computer Engineering - Electromechanical Engineering Technology - Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering - Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs - Civil Engineering - Electrical Engineering - Engineering Management - Engineering w/ Emphasis in Aerospace - Engineering w/ Emphasis in Materials - Mechanical Engineering - Systems Engineering Academic Advising Bronco Mentoring Network First Year Experience Maximizing Engineering Potential (MEP) Women in Science and Engineering (CPP WiSE) Leadership Program Scholarships Outreach Engineering Student Ambassadors (ESA) Engineering Tours Project Lead the Way Annual Robot Rally (REAL) Femineer Open Positions Part-Time Lecturer Full-Time Faculty Resources Curriculum Sheets Laboratories and Centers Safety Materials References Engineering Calendar Branding and Communications Additional Resources Resources from Industry Engineering Service Request Giving Events Project Symposium & Showcase Ganpat and Manju Patel Distinguished Lectureship Series Hall of Fame Commencement Initiatives CPP College of Engineering 1 2 This slide contains video without audio. The description of the video is "A montage of graduates in commencement regalia." Congrats Class of 2022! Watch your commencement recording! Watch Here Welcome, Future Broncos! Affordable and Excellent: One of the best at a fraction of the price. Explore CPP Engineering Previous Next Affordable and Excellent: CPP College of Engineering CPP College of Engineering's one of the largest, top-ranking and affordable engineering colleges in the nation. With 11 undergraduate and 7 graduate programs to choose from, we get you hands-on with industry-standard hardware, software and practices. You'll be ahead of peers in other colleges who operate in the theoretical but rarely in the practical. We graduate over 1,200 Bronco Engineers every year. They go onto solve hard problems and invent new solutions—be one of them. 11 Undergraduate Programs to Start Your Career 7 Graduate Programs to Advance Your Career Our engineering programs are top-ranking nationally among 220 engineering programs in the U.S. News & World Report 2022: No. 5 Best Undergraduate Engineering Program* No. 3 in Computer Engineering No. 4 in Civil Engineering No. 4 in Electrical Engineering No. 9 Mechanical Engineering *Among public universities where a doctorate is not offered Explore CPP College of Engineering Future Students Welcome, future Bronco. See why you should choose us and how to apply. Explore Engineering Current Students Hey Bronco, get a list of resources to help you graduate on time, including curriculum sheets, scholarship opportunities and meeting with an advisor. Get Resources Alumni and Friends Find out how to stay connected with CPP College of Engineering as a Bronco Engineer. Stay Connected Faculty and Expertise Access a directory of our world-class faculty. Learn More about Faculty and Expertise CPP Engineering Magazine The Fall 2021 Issue The stories about our people, and their grit and perseverance that make us one of the best engineering colleges in the nation. Read the Latest Issue Engineering News In Memoriam: Lyle Blaine McCurdy Professor Emeritus Lyle Blaine McCurdy, former chair of the Department of Engineering Technology, died on April 7. Professor Lyle Blaine McCurdy Civil Engineering Program Outranks all Cal State Civil Programs Study.com ranks CPP College of Engineering's civil engineering program no. 9 in the nation. Rated on categories like graduation and acceptance rates, our program outranked every Cal State. CPP CE Program Ranking Leveling Up New faculty director puts students at the forefront of innovation and learning. New Faculty Director NASA Engineer Inspires Next Generation NASA’s Perseverance rover landed on Mars on Feb. 18, and Luis Dominguez (’09, mechanical engineering) served as the rover's deputy electrical integration and test lead. Watch on NBC More CPP College of Engineering News Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers