Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date September 2, 2021 2021-09-02 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown’s newest students, by the numbers A total of 3,038 new undergraduate, graduate and medical students will begin studies at Brown University next week — here’s a look at who is arriving on College Hill. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — With the start of the 2021-22 academic year on the horizon, Brown University is welcoming 3,038 new students to College Hill in the days leading up to Monday, Sept. 6 — when each will have the chance to celebrate Opening Convocation and process through the famed Van Wickle Gates to mark the start of their Brown experiences. Among these newest students are the 1,724 members of the undergraduate Class of 2025, as well as returning undergraduates, transfer students and an accomplished cohort of doctoral, master’s and medical students. Here’s a look at the 3,038 newest students on College Hill, by the numbers. Undergraduate Class of 2025 A total of 46,568 students applied for admission to Brown’s undergraduate Class of 2025. The University admitted 2,569 students (5.5%), yielding a matriculating class of 1,724. The addition of 10 incoming Resumed Undergraduate Education students and 80 transfers makes for the total of 1,814 incoming students. 48% of class members are students of color 15% percent are first-generation college students 44% percent will receive need-based scholarship or grant aid Students in the class come to Brown from 66 nations 11% are international students Beyond the U.S., the countries most represented are China, India, the United Kingdom, Canada, South Korea and Turkey Among the most common intended areas of concentration are economics; computer science; political science; international and public affairs; biochemistry and molecular biology; biology; engineering; English; applied mathematics; and neuroscience Graduate Students Approximately 1,080 incoming graduate students will begin studies in 31 doctoral and 30 master’s and executive master’s programs this fall 26.6% of all new graduate students from the U.S. are from groups historically underrepresented in higher education 40% of all new graduate students are international students Incoming students come from 44 U.S. states and territories and 71 nations Beyond the U.S., the countries most represented are China, India, Canada, Korea, the United Kingdom, Germany and Colombia M.D. Class of 2025 A total of 144 aspiring physicians will begin medical education studies at the Warren Alpert Medical School. 33% of students are from groups historically underrepresented in medicine Students come from 62 colleges and universities — including 53 from Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education Members of the class come from 34 U.S. states and territories and 19 nations 16 students will start in Brown’s combined M.D.-Sc.M. program in Primary Care-Population Medicine, the first of its kind in the nation Tags Graduate School The College Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown’s newest students, by the numbers Open details for Brown’s newest students, by the numbers Bookmark this Page