Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Philosophy MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Philosophy MA Apply Request More Info Philosophy MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Philosophy Begin advanced training in philosophy through an innovative curriculum with the Master of Arts in Philosophy in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 30-credit graduate degree provides students the opportunity to join a cohesive group of peers and faculty working across the traditions of Anglo-American and European philosophy, contemporary issues, and historical scholarship. Philosophy MA faculty are internationally acclaimed in key areas, including aesthetics, ancient philosophy, early modern and Kantian European philosophy, epistemology, ethics, feminism, philosophy of language, philosophy of science, political philosophy, post-Kantian European philosophy, and pragmatism. As a Philosophy MA student, you will participate in experiences across Philadelphia, such as participating in conferences and off-campus events; running the Work-in-Progress series and a newly established Women in Philosophy reading group; working with the Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium and helping guide Fresh Philosophy, the Consortium’s undergraduate online journal; and taking part in a highly active department colloquium series. Temple’s Department of Philosophy has an especially rich history and continuing presence in the field of aesthetics, counting American philosophers Monroe Beardsley and John Fisher among former faculty. Faculty members publish with leading journals and publishing houses, representing Temple nationally and abroad. Philosophy PhD Students who plan to pursue the Philosophy PhD at Temple should first apply to the PhD program. Students who wish to earn the Philosophy MA can do so while in the doctoral program. The Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium The Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium provides expanded course options for graduate work in philosophy. Students enrolled in the Philosophy MA program at Temple may take graduate courses at the University of Pennsylvania and Villanova University. Philosophy MA/Urban Bioethics MA Dual Degree The Department of Philosophy and the Center for Bioethics, Urban Health and Policy at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine offer a dual degree program combining an MA in Philosophy with an MA in Urban Bioethics. The aim of the dual degree program is to provide Philosophy MA students with specialized training in the ethics, politics and values of health in our increasingly diverse society, while at the same time offering Urban Bioethics students a broader understanding of the philosophical underpinnings of contemporary bioethics. The program blends the missions and values of philosophy and urban bioethics, and it will prepare students with the depth of training and expertise necessary as they move towards future leadership positions in academia, healthcare and other public spheres. Learn more about Philosophy MA dual degree options. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Philosophy MA are offered in-person on both Temple’s Main Campus and Center City campus, with classes largely offered before 4:30 p.m. The degree program may be completed on either a full- or part-time basis. Students may take up to three years to complete the Philosophy MA. Courses you are likely to take as part of the Philosophy MA curriculum include 19th Century Philosophy, Aesthetics, Contemporary Ethical Theory, Feminist Epistemology and the Philosophy of Science, Metaethics, Political Theory, and Theory of Knowledge. Learn more about Philosophy MA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Philosophy PhD Religion PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Colin Chamberlain is the graduate advisor. Phone: 215-204-0122 Email: colin.chamberlain@temple.edu Program Contact For more information about the Philosophy MA, contact the following staff member. TJ Cusack is the administrator in the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: tjc@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Philosophy Department. Espen Hammer is the chair of the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-1742 Email: ehammer@temple.edu Sonia Lawson is the graduate coordinator in the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-1742 Email: slawson@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Philosophy MA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Philosophy MA students. The Center for the Humanities offers grants and associate positions to faculty and advanced graduate students pursuing interdisciplinary work. The center works to bridge the divide between departments and colleges by promoting broad, humanities-based conversations that connect scholars from multiple academic fields. The Center for the Advancement of Teaching promotes the value and practice of teaching that facilitates student learning and growth. The center’s programs and resources support evidence-based teaching and provide opportunities for faculty and graduate student TAs to learn from the experience and expertise of their colleagues. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PHIL-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Philosophy MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info