Coogs Conquer (C-2) Workshops On-Demand - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Outreach Coogs Conquer Outreach Outreach Request Form College Student Grief Awareness Day Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Newsletters Rainbow Wellness Group Coogs Conquer (C-2) Workshops On-Demand CAPS presents the Coogs Conquer Workshop Series free and open to students, faculty and staff. Access recorded C-2 workshop videos! Simply click the on-demand links and enter your username@cougarnet.uh.edu Before Burnout Stress management is an important factor in preventing burnout. Take time to reflect on your stress indicators and intervene before burnout sets in. On-Demand Emotional Roller Coasters Ongoing disruption to our daily lives by COVID-19 and news coverage of racial unrest can cause a range of feelings. Learn how to cope with these ups and downs. On-Demand Grad School Stress In this recording, CAPS helps graduate school students at the University of Houston reflect on their personal stressors, reactions, and coping. We share coping and university resources to manage common grad school stress. On-Demand Coogs Conquer Anxiety In this recording, CAPS helps graduate school students at the University of Houston reflect on their personal stressors, reactions, and coping. We share coping and university resources to manage common grad school stress. Anxiety Coping Strategies Racial Trauma is Real Join CAPS for in-depth conversations about anti-black and broader issues of racism in America. Learn about and understand the impact of racial trauma and how to cope and/or support those affected by racially traumatic events. Sign up for our Racial Trauma is Real Workshops by filling out our form. To request this workshop for 10 or more participants please submit a request. See CAPS Race Related Stress Resources page for additional information University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies