Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Electrical Engineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Electrical Engineering Major Apply Visit Request More Info Electrical Engineering Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering The Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering is a 128-credit hour degree offered in Temple University’s College of Engineering and focuses on control systems, electromagnetics and electronics. Electrical engineers innovate and design the systems that help keep buildings, computers, factories, power grids and telecommunications productive and efficient. They also design electric motors, radar and navigation systems, robots, and all other electronic devices. Becoming an Electrical Engineer A bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering or electronic engineering is required to become an entry-level professional electrical engineer. Some advanced professional positions also might require advanced degrees or professional licensure. Electrical engineers need a solid grounding in the core subjects of the electrical engineering discipline. At Temple, these include analog and digital circuit design, as well as discrete and continuous signal processing, programming and circuit design. This education will prepare you with the skills in mathematics, physics, reasoning and more that are necessary in the field. As an electrical engineering student, you’ll develop teamwork skills, the precision to match designs to their specifications and the capacity to execute projects on schedule. You’ll then amplify your expertise by adding technical electives that broaden your range or target your skills to the specific areas of engineering that most interest you. Concentrations You can focus on Electrical Engineering or choose one of the following concentrations. Bioelectrical Engineering Prepare for careers in the emerging fields of assistive device technology, bioelectronics and biomedical signal and image processing. Build a strong foundation through the study of anatomy, biology, control systems, digital signal processing, electromagnetics and physiology. View Concentration Details Computer Engineering Learn to design and develop computers, microprocessors, networks and workstations for the servers and switches that support the internet. Learn to manage the integration of hardware and protocols that support the telecommunications network. View Concentration Details Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Related Graduate Degrees Electrical Engineering MS Computer and Systems Security PSM Bioengineering MS Electrical Engineering PhD Computer and Systems Security Graduate Certificate +1 Accelerated Degree Programs The College of Engineering offers accelerated +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study instead of taking the usual six years. Electrical Engineering undergraduate majors can earn an MS in Electrical Engineering in one year. Graduate courses taken as an undergraduate in this program are charged at the undergraduate rate. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s accelerated programs. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs and Organizations Enrich your academic experience and social life by joining one of the College of Engineering’s student clubs/organizations, including ETA KAPPA NU (Electrical Engineering Honor Society) the Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Temple University Amateur Radio Club and Temple Robotics. See the full list of Engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition and the Student Design Competition. Study Away Opportunities Add a global perspective to your Electrical Engineering Major. Study abroad for a summer or semester. Accreditation Temple’s Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-ECE-BSEE Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Electrical Engineering Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info