Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Services Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Office of the Executive Vice President The Executive Vice President leads operational, financial, and physical initiatives in support of Penn’s academic and programmatic goals. The nine reporting divisions below provide leadership across the key administrative areas of the University. These divisions collaboratively develop and implement Penn's strategic priorities. Expand All Collapse All Audit, Compliance & Privacy The Office of Audit, Compliance and Privacy provides services in three distinct yet related disciplines—audit, compliance, and privacy—in support of the vision to advance the University and Penn Medicine from excellence to eminence in the core endeavors of teaching, research, and service. Visit | Contact Business Services The Business Services Division supports the individual and collective needs of the Penn community by promoting a hospitable, customer-friendly campus environment through the provision of mission-critical services and essential operations. Purchasing Penn Children's Center Transportation & Parking PennCard Contact Office of Finance & Treasurer The Division of Finance is responsible for the centralized finance functions of the University. Its departments are essential to Penn’s financial management and ensure that financial resources are expertly stewarded, that financial policies are clear and consistently applied, and that faculty, staff, and students have access to funding needed to support their enrollment or perform their work. Comptroller's Office Financial Reports Risk Management & Insurance Contact Information Systems & Computing Information Systems & Computing staff work closely with IT organizations across the University to create, deliver, and support products and services that help each school and center operate more effectively. Services Information Security Collaboration ISC Client Care Contact Public Safety The dedicated personnel of The Division of Public Safety are responsible for enhancing the quality of life, safety, and security of the Penn community. The Division accomplishes its mission through the delivery of a comprehensive and integrated safety and security program, in partnership with the community that it serves. Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department Penn Guardian PennComm Contact Budget and Management Analysis The University’s Office of Budget and Management Analysis manages Penn’s budget planning process, including establishing budget planning parameters; reviewing responsibility center budget submissions; administering allocated cost and space charge algorithms; advising University leadership on central resource allocation issues; presenting the budget to trustees, senior officers, faculty, staff, and students; and monitoring responsibility center operating performance against budget. Budgeting Guide Resources Operating Budget Facilities & Real Estate Services The team at Facilities and Real Estate Services, as stewards of Penn’s physical environment, strives to provide innovative and cost-effective solutions that embrace the University’s rich past and enhance the quality of its living and learning experiences. Sustainability Standards & Policies Human Resources Penn’s Division of Human Resources strives to provide employees with the resources they need for career growth and personal wellness. Whether employees are looking to enhance their skills, explore academic interests, build retirement savings, or develop a healthy lifestyle, Penn HR can help. Careers Benefits Workday@Penn Contact Investments The Office of Investments is responsible for the management of the University’s long-term investments and its endowment. Investment Approach Investment Impact Contact Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Information about Penn’s policies, programs, and resources in the areas of affirmative action and equal opportunity. African-American Resource Center AARC is a resource center dedicated to enhancing the quality of life of faculty, staff, and students at Penn with a particular focus on those of African descent. Communications and Media Services Information about the University’s communications services, publications, and media outlets. Faculty and Staff Organizations A list of forums and communities where faculty and staff can congregate to discuss issues of common interest. General Counsel The Office of the General Counsel handles all legal matters pertaining to the University and Penn Medicine. Penn Libraries Explore Penn’s extensive library collections and online resources. Penn Alumni Hundreds of thousands of Penn alumni reside across the globe. The team at Penn Alumni Relations has made it their mission to seek to engage with all the University’s graduates to support lifelong connections to each other and their schools, and to encourage alumni guidance to advance Penn’s eminence for future generations. Offices & Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Human Resources Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Student Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. Residential Services Retail Penn offers a host of convenient retail options on and around campus and online. Look for special discounts for Penn students, faculty, and staff. Retail Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Transportation & Parking Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus Event Planning Offices & Services Landing Page A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Services Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top