COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home About For Media UH Home Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr RSS Youtube Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative By Campus dropdown menu column 1 Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi column 2 Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Submit Students at UH West Oʻahu, Japan learn together through COIL UH News » Academic News » Students at UH West… May 27, 2022 UH News University of Hawaiʻi–West Oʻahu students can get the feel of a study-abroad experience through collaborative online international learning, or COIL, which brings together international classes via online technology to allow students to learn and work with one another. Professor of Business Management Keith Sakuda has been teaching COIL courses for UH West Oʻahu students through a partnership with Kansai Gaidai University (KGU) in Japan. In collaboration with Stephen Zurcher, KGU professor of management and dean of the Asian studies program, the COIL project has been exploring new models of international education since spring 2020. “COIL at UH West Oʻahu is about accessibility,” Sakuda said. “For students who are unable to leave Hawaiʻi, it is the only option to experience some of the academic and personal benefits of study abroad.” Andrew Morrison took Sakuda’s MGT 341: Behavior in Organizations COIL class in fall 2021. “I was not sure what to expect when I initially started the class, but it ended up being one of my favorite classes that I have taken at UH West Oʻahu,” Morrison said. “Working with Japanese students, specifically having the chance to read their papers, was one of the most interesting parts because you see how another culture writes and tackles different issues in business.” Another student, Jamie White, said she liked being able to study with students from Japan. “It was refreshing to learn about their culture first hand along with their professor (Zurcher), who gave great insights,” White said. “… I personally would like to see this class in every college major for better relationships with Japanese students, culture and future business relations.” According to the American Council on Education, COIL is a research-based method of virtual exchange involving faculty in two or more countries collaborating to develop a joint syllabus for students to then work together online to complete assignments that meet shared learning objectives. Sakuda said, “Traditional barriers to study abroad—such as location (neighbor islands), attendance status (part-time), employment status (working professional), first generation college student status, limited financial resources, and family obligations (single parent or family caretaker)—can be overcome using flexible, cost-effective and scalable solutions offered by COIL.” He said a recent MGT 370: Global External Environment COIL course, in which he merged his class with KGU’s class for the entire semester, is believed to have been the only fully-integrated COIL this past spring in the UH system, and possibly the only U.S.-Japan fully-integrated COIL in the country. In MGT 370, UH West Oʻahu and KGU students met once a week via Zoom, and had video presentations, assignments and several group projects. In April, the class also featured guest speaker Robert Noddin, recently retired president and CEO of AIG Japan Holdings, who talked about understanding political risk management and developing an international career in business—a learning opportunity for both Hawaiʻi- and Japan-based students. UH West Oʻahu’s partnership with KGU will continue into fall 2022, when Sakuda will again teach MGT 341: Behavior in Organizations, a fully-integrated COIL course. Read more in Ka Puna O Kaloʻi. —By Zenaida Serrano Arvman Related Posts: Distance education made easy through UH West Oʻahu UH West Oʻahu to hold commencement ceremony virtually UH West Oʻahu students, faculty reflect on a semester unlike… businessdistance educationKa Puna O Kaloistudy abroadUH West Oahu Share This Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email West Oʻahu Links Admissions Degrees, Certificates and Pathways Events Calendar West Oahu's Twitter West Oahu's Facebook West Oahu's Instagram West Oahu's Flicker West Oahu's YouTube Most Popular 1st gen Shidler alumna endows $100K scholarship to honor parents Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say Army ROTC Warrior battalion competes with world’s best Featured Video Congratulations spring 2022 UH grads! previous post: Pursuing health equity through a women, gender issues lens Watch the latest news of the University of Hawaiʻi View News Videos 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube RSS Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Work at UH By Categorydropdown menu Academic Research People Community Athletics Administrative Videos By Campusdropdown menu Hawaiʻi Hilo Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Mānoa Maui West Oʻahu Windward Back To Top Search Submit