Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Purchasing Contract Review at Strategic Purchasing, Contracts and Insurance Purchasing Contract Review at Strategic Purchasing, Contracts and Insurance Strategic Purchasing, Contracts and Insurance (SPCI) is responsible for reviewing and approving contracts for the purchase of goods and services with the exception that OIT provides contract review for all IT contracts at Brown for administrative, academic, and research purposes. OIT Contract review includes assessing a security level if there is Brown data involved. The Brown Contract Management System (BCM) has been created to manage this process. It is also used to create Professional Services Agreements from the template created by the Office of the General Counsel. In order for contract requests to be submitted through BCM, the individual submitted must have been provided with access to the system. Access to the system must be requested by submitting a Help Ticket. Training completed in Workday Learning is required prior to access being granted. The information entered by the person with the “contract requester” role will allow the system to route the contract to either SPCI or OIT. The “contract managers” within those departments will be able to manage the contract review within the system including sending messages back to the department and routing for additional University reviews from other areas when needed. Once the contract review is complete and the contract is ready to be sent for signature, the contract manager in SPCI or OIT will send it through DocuSign to obtain the required signatures. Training and job aids are available through Workday Learning. Check the Delegations of Signature Authority schedule posted on the OGC website to determine who can sign contracts. The ‘contract requester’ is responsible for indicating on the request form who should sign the contract. Tips for contracting for goods and services: Check the Strategic Supplier webpage - a University wide contract may already exist Be familiar with the University's competitive bid process requirements Support the University's initiatives such as utilizing local and diversity suppliers, and making selections that support sustainability Be familiar with the University's signature authority policy Plan for sufficient time for contract reviews to be conducted Be sure to submit all required information for contract review requests Suppliers must be registered in Workday prior to submitting the contract request For more information about the University’s contracting process please visit the Workday Learning link below and enroll in the Brown Contracts Management Basics training module. Related Files Brown's standard PSA terms and information Brown Contract Management General Request Details Brown University Purchase Order Terms and Conditions Related Links IT Contract and Security Review Process Brown Contract Management Basics Training Introduction to the Brown Contract Management System Home SPCI Process Improvement Projects (BCM, BrownBuys, Supplier Onboarding) Staff About Strategic Suppliers Strategic Sourcing Uniform Guidance Overview Ordering Goods and Services Contract Review Independent Contractors/PSAs Conducting Business with Brown University Posted Bid Opportunities Brown's Property Insurance Office Forms Policies Print this Page Share this Page Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Brown University Box 1845 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2206 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Offices Insurance Controller's Office