Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close About BC HOME About BC In This Section About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Education with a heart and soul—and the power to transform Boston College, the first institution of higher education to operate in the city of Boston, is today among the nation’s foremost universities, a leader in the liberal arts, scientific inquiry, and student formation. Grounded in the ideals that inspired our Jesuit founders, Boston College urges students to look inward but always to reach out—to develop their minds and talents to the fullest and use them in service to others. We ask our students to explore the big questions and challenge them to ask: What difference will I make? How will my knowledge serve the world? We ask our students to explore the big questions and challenge them to ask: What difference will I make? How will my knowledge serve the world? BC Basics Origin Founded in Boston's South End in 1863. Colors Maroon and gold Motto "Ever to Excel" from Book Six of The Illiad Mascot The Eagle Spotlight BC Global True to our Jesuit, Catholic heritage, Boston College has been committed to international collaboration since our founding in 1863. The Global Engagement Committee will explore new opportunities, challenges, and resources needed for enhancing our international presence. BC Global Website Global Engagement Committee Boston College Traditions Convocation “Set the World Aflame” Freshman Eagles begin their BC journey with the traditional “first flight”—a lantern-led procession down the Higgins stairs to the Conte Forum for an inspiring guest speaker. Beanpot Best of Boston Since 1952, teams from BC, BU, Harvard, and Northeastern have competed for hockey dominance in this legendary two-week tournament. Red Bandana Remembering Welles Crowther Every year, the BC community honors the memory of alumnus and 9/11 hero Welles Remy Crowther ’99 with a 5k “Red Bandana Race” and a dedicated football and lacrosse game. Arts Festival Creativity on Campus Music, theater, dance, poetry—this vibrant community event draws more than 1,000 talented student and faculty performers. ALC Showdown Let’s Dance! BC’s largest annual student dance competition promotes diversity and cultural awareness through dance. Marathon Monday A Boston Tradition Every Patriot’s Day, the BC community cheers on runners in the Boston Marathon, including the BC Campus School team, as they make their way up Commonwealth Avenue. Superfans Gold Rush Superfans wear gold and get loud as they cheer the Eagles to victory. Student Involvement Fair Find Your Spot This annual fair gives incoming students a chance to explore the more than 300 diverse organizations, programs, and offices on campus. Mass of the Holy Spirit Blessings for a New Year A Jesuit tradition dating back to the Middle Ages, the Mass of the Holy Spirit brings the BC community together to mark the opening of the school year. Christmas Tree Lighting Celebrating the Holidays BC kicks off the Christmas season with a tree lighting ceremony featuring festive performances, games, and a chance to take a selfie with Santa. ALS Awareness Game Fenway Park Takeover For one night a year, the BC baseball team plays a home game at Fenway Park to raise money in the fight against ALS. Commencement Congrats, Grads! Graduating students and their families celebrate their academic accomplishments and hear from inspiring speakers at the University Commencement ceremony. Boston Experience the excitement of America’s college town. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College