Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Testing & Quarantine » COVID Check App Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines COVID Check App The UC COVID Check App will remain in use and operation during the Spring 2022 term.   While students are no longer required to conduct a daily health check using the COVID Check App before coming to campus or leaving their UC Housing, students are required – and faculty, staff and visitors are strongly encouraged – to report via the UC COVID Check App if they test positive for COVID-19, or develop viral symptoms.    Students are also required – and faculty, staff and visitors are strongly encouraged – to report via the App if they have a known exposure to a COVID-positive person.   Employees who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are not feeling well with COVID-related symptoms should report any expected absence from work to their supervisor, are strongly encouraged to immediately contact their health care provider and, again, may contact the COVID Response Team via the App or web-based tool.   Download the COVID Check App UC's COVID Check app is free and easy to use. It can be downloaded through the Apple App Store and Google Play Store. A web-based tool is also available. The app is synched with the university’s secure Single-Sign On system. The app does not use GPS tracking. How to use the UC COVID Check app Log in using UC's secure Single Sign On system. UC guests can create a guest account. Once logged in, users answer a series of health-related questions, based on CDC guidelines. Based on answers, users receive a “Green Pass” to come or move about campus; or a “Red Pass,” which limit campus access. If a "Red Pass" is issued, a member of UC’s COVID Response Team personally connects with the user within 24-48 hours to provide additional information and next steps. Data you enter into the App is then sent to a protected database used to analyze trends and assist the COVID Response Team with decision making. Why you might have a Red Pass A Red Pass on the UC COVID Check App can be caused by: A positive test result New symptoms reported through the app that could represent COVID-19 You are out of compliance with UC's COVID-19 vaccine requirement If you have a Red Pass a member of the UC COVID Check Response Team will contact you about next steps.  You may email uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu or call 513-558-1772 or 513-558-1773 if you think you have received a Red Pass in error. The COVID Check phone lines are staffed Monday through Thursday from 9:00 a.m.- 9:00 p.m. and Friday through Sunday from 9:00 a.m.- 3:00 p.m. Frequently Asked Questions May a faculty member, staff member, GA or TA overseeing a classroom space or lab deny entry to class or lab to a student with a UC COVID Check App “Red Pass?” right arrow down arrow Yes, faculty or staff, including graduate assistants or teaching assistants, overseeing a class or lab may deny entry to a student if the student does not provide a UC COVID Check Green Pass, isn’t using the App or has an App “Red Pass.” What if I have any questions about use of the COVID Check App? right arrow down arrow Call the UC COVID Check Response Team hotline at: (513) 558-1772 (513) 558-1773 The hotline is staffed Monday - Thursday from 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. and Friday - Sunday from 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. You can also email uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu for assistance. What is the app? right arrow down arrow The app is a way to make sure that everyone is as safe as possible to come to campus, classes and activities on a daily basis. Who is it for? right arrow down arrow Faculty, staff, students and visitors to campus. Is it required? right arrow down arrow  While students are no longer required to conduct a daily health check using the COVID Check App before coming to campus or leaving their UC Housing, students are required – and faculty, staff and visitors are strongly encouraged – to report via the UC COVID Check App if they test positive for COIVD-19 or develop viral symptoms.  (Faculty are encouraged to check for a Green Pass from students before allowing classroom or lab entry.)  Students are also required – and faculty, staff and visitors are strongly encouraged – to report via the App if they have a known exposure to a COVID-positive person.  Faculty are encouraged to check for a Green Pass from students before allowing classroom or lab entry. Please note that if you are under the age of 18, you must obtain consent from your parent/guardian to use the COVID Check App. By using this App, you are verifying that you have obtained consent from your parent/guardian. What if I don’t want to use the app? right arrow down arrow A web-based tool is available for individuals who do not want to use the App. What will happen if I report symptoms using the app survey? right arrow down arrow If you report symptoms, you will receive a call and/or email within 24-48 hours from our case investigators, who will provide guidance on next steps. If further action is deemed necessary, such as testing or contact tracing, the case investigator will obtain necessary details like onset dates of symptoms, close contacts, etc. The name of any individual reporting symptoms will not be shared in the contract tracing process. How do I get the UC COVID Check app? right arrow down arrow The UC COVID Check app is available for download in the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store. What if I’m not very technology savvy and don’t know how to use it or download it? right arrow down arrow A web-based tool is available for non-app users. If you experience technical trouble with the app, please contact the IT@UC Help Desk. Is it free? right arrow down arrow Yes. How will my information be used? How will my privacy be safeguarded? right arrow down arrow Your information will be used to help keep you and others safe. Privacy will be pursuant to FERPA and in accordance with the University Data Governance and Classification Policy. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top