Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact Home College Credit Plus Apply to CCP Apply to CCP Fall 2022 application is available NOW! Please review our admissions requirements before you apply. First time CCP applicants Use this application if you have not previously taken a class through UC College Credit Plus. After accessing your account, start a new application. Make sure to select the year 2022, and then the 2022 College Credit Plus application. Review the application deadlines to make sure you have submitted your information on time. Please note that you are required to submit the CCP Permission Slip with your application. After applying, log in and check your CCP application status. Electronic admissions decision notices will be sent to the email listed on your application. Click Start Application below and select Create an account under First-time users. Start Application Complete your CCP application Click Finish Application below, if you have already created an account within Slate and have been prompted to submit or complete a new CCP application. Review the application deadlines to make sure you have submitted your information on time. Please note that you are required to submit the CCP Permission Slip with your application. After submitting your application, you can log in and check your CCP application status. Electronic admissions decision notices will be sent to the email listed on your application. Click Finish Application below and select Log in under Returning users Finish Application Change class modality Use this form if you are already enrolled in CCP and want to change your course modality to taking classes at one of UC's campuses in addition to your high school. Click Modality Change Form below to fill out and submit your request Modality Change Form If you have other questions or requests related to your application, please check our FAQ page. Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.