Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Kudos! Prof Burkins has been appointed the UArctic Chair Melody Brown Burkins, Guarini '95, '98, director of the Institute of Arctic Studies, has been appointed the UArctic Chair in science diplomacy and inclusion for the next five years. Prof Theresa Ong receives ESA Excellence in Ecology (EEE) Scholars award ESA announced the recipients of the first cohort of the ESA Excellence in Ecology (EEE) Scholars. The new initiative addresses the recommendation from the ESA Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Justice (DEIJ) Task Force to support and elevate diverse scientists in the ecological community. ENVS New England Domestic Study Program in 21F ENVS students are currently on the New England Domestic Study Program that takes place in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. Prof Michael Cox - co-founder and co-host of "In Common" podcast. In Common is a podcast exploring the lives, research and activities of scholars and practitioners as they promote sustainable human-environment interactions. First-Year Students - Start Here! Welcome class of 2025! For those of you interested in the Environmental Studies Program, click here! Burkins Named Director of the Institute of Arctic Studies The earth sciences scholar and science diplomacy specialist succeeds colleague Ross Virginia. MAD Research Video People's Choice Winners! Ashley Laveriano '24 & Ivan Tochimani-Hernandez '24 won the People's Choice award for their video on the Dartmouth Agroforestry Project. Video: D.G. Webster on Seafood Fraud The associate professor discusses the global mislabeling of seafood products. ENVS Fall Field Study Program Info Session! Join us on Thursday, April 22 (Earth Day) from 5:00-5:45 pm for an info session on the new ENVS Fall Field Study Program on Social Ecological Systems. Researchers Awarded NASA Grant to Assess Land Changes in Peru The team will use remotely sensed data to assess gold mining's impact in Madre de Dios. Recent Publications view all How Social Connections to Local CBNRM Institutions Shape Interaction: A Mixed Methods Case from Namibia Julie L. Snorek, Thomas Kraft, Vignesh Chockalingam '20, Alysssa Gao '20, Meghna Ray '20 Journal of Sustainable Development; Vol. 13, No. 6; 2020 Native American Tribes and Dam Removal: Restoring the Ottaway, Penobscot and Elwha Rivers Coleen A. Fox, Nicholas James Reo, Brett Fessell, Frank Dituri Water Alternatives 15(1): 31-55 (2022) Applying a leverage points framework to the United Nations climate negotiations: The (dis)empowerment of youth participants. Leehi Yona '16, Marc D. Dixon, Richard B. Howarth, Anne R. Kapuscinski, Ross A. Virginia Elem Sci Anth, 8: 36. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1525/elementa.433 (2020) Agroecological Transitions: A Mathematical Perspective on a Transdisciplinary Problem. Theresa Ong, Wenying Liao Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 4:91. doi: 10.3389/fsufs.2020.00091 (2020) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback