Alumni & Giving Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed Friends & Alumni Network Alumni Video & Outreach Attracts Students to the Geosciences Connect Mentor Leadership Home Support JSG Areas of Support Bureau of Economic Geology Expands Research Capacity Texas Soil Observation Network Ways to Give Celebrate Philanthropy Donor Stories Giving Societies Celebratory Events Endowments List Geology Foundation Advisory Council Corporate & Foundation Giving Advancing Excellence Folk Tales Folk/McBride Thin Sections Events Calendar Career Services Keep in Touch Field Camp Stories Contact Us Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Moving your school to the next level of preeminence The Jackson School is home to the country’s largest academic geosciences community with 150 research scientists and faculty members and the largest combined graduate and undergraduate enrollment of any major earth science program. We claim almost 5000 alumni around the globe, representing some of the finest earth science minds in the business. The school was established in 2005, uniting one of the country’s oldest academic departments of geosciences with two world-renowned research units: the Institute for Geophysics and the Bureau of Economic Geology. The University deemed the creation of the school when the late John A. Jackson bequeathed assets valued at over $250 million to the Geology Foundation. That gift, in partnership with the long established resources of the Foundation, has enabled an era of unprecedented growth in geoscience education and research at the university. To engage more fully in the life of the Jackson School, please contact the Development & Alumni Team. Support UT Students in Crisis The spread of COVID-19 has changed our lives for the months ahead. As we navigate daily uncertainty and change, our community is coming together to support the UT students who need our help most. Read More Friends & Alumni Network The University of Texas at Austin has awarded degrees in the geosciences for more than 125 years, and the Jackson School is proud to claim over 5000 alumni. This prestigious group represents some of the finest earth science minds in the business. The school created the Friends and Alumni Network (FANs) to keep all UT geo graduates and friends with an interest in the geosciences connected. Read More Celebrate Philanthropy We celebrate the generosity of our community through our giving societies. Every year, we welcome new members and celebrate our commitment to the school. Read More Friends & Alumni Network Support JSG Events Calendar Career Services Keep in Touch Field Camp Stories Contact Us Make a Gift Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader