Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Cover Letters Home Jobs and Internships Cover Letters Jobs and Internships Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Stand Out Through Your Cover Letter A cover letter is your opportunity to demonstrate to an employer your fit and enthusiasm for the role. Simply by taking the time to write a tailored cover letter, you are showing the employer that you are an eager applicant. A well-written will show the employer how your experience and skills connect with the job description. Key Points Tailor your letter to the position. Each cover letter should be tailored to the position and organization to which you are sending it. Keep in mind that the cover letter is often a prospective employer’s first impression of you. Be clear. Your cover letters should clearly and succinctly connect 2-3 of your key qualifications to the job description. Show, not just tell. Use specific examples to show the employer how you gained each qualification. Keep it short. Your cover letter should be no longer than one page and should include your contact information at the top, the date, and the organization’s address. Proofread. Proofread your letter multiple times to make sure there are no typos and that details such as the organization name and position title are correct. Have your cover letter reviewed by 1-2 others for both content feedback and another layer of proofreading. How to Write a Strong Cover Letter Though each cover letter should be tailored to the position and organization to which you are sending it, every letter will contain the same components. The goal is to motivate the reader to invite you for an interview and the best way to do that is to write a unique letter that focuses on that specific position and organization. That said, you will likely be able to reuse examples across letters. Follow the steps below to write a strong cover letter. Use this worksheet to help you plan and develop your resume content. 1. Review the Job Description Reviewing and gaining a strong understanding of the job description will help you write a tailored cover letter. Highlight the key skills or qualifications they are seeking that align with your strengths. Ask yourself: What skills and qualifications are required for the position? Are there key phrases in the job description, organizational mission, or other materials from the company that seem to show up over and over? Choose 2-3 of those skills or qualifications to highlight in your cover letter. 2. Add Your Header As this is a professional letter, the header should include your contact information, the date you are sending or submitting your letter, and the recipient’s address block. You may cut and paste the header from your resume to make it look like a personalized letterhead. Ideally, you would address the letter to the name of the hiring manager, but if you are unable to get a specific name, you may address the letter to “Dear Hiring Manager”. As this is a formal business letter, you will typically address it to the recipient’s title and last name (e.g. “Dear Dr. Brown”) If you do have a name but aren't sure of the person's gender or pronouns, we recommend that you include both the first name and the last name in your greeting without a title that reveals gender. (e.g. “Dear Pat Brown”) Even if you know the name and gender of the person to whom you are writing, think carefully about what title you use. If the person has an M.D. or a Ph.D., you should address your letter to “Dr. Lastname.” When you address a cover letter to a female employer, use the title “Ms.”, a general title that does not denote marital status. 3. Write an Introductory Paragraph The introductory paragraph sets the tone for the letter and should cover the following: Explain why you are writing and how you heard about the opening (if applicable). Mention the job title by name. If you have a personal connection to the organization, mention that person’s name. In 1-2 sentences, demonstrate your knowledge of the organization and why you want to work there. Based on your research, what is something unique about this organization that appeals to you? Convey your excitement and genuine interest in the organization and the opportunity to work for them. Briefly explain why you are a good match—the skills/experiences you bring that you will elaborate on in the next couple paragraphs. 4. Write 2–3 Body Paragraphs Your body paragraphs will cover the 2-3 skills or qualifications you identified in step 1. This is where you will spend the most time creating content. Using examples from your resume (without repeating your resume verbatim), tell a brief story about the experiences that best qualify you for the role. Through this content and by using keywords from the job description, the reader will be able to imagine what your working style, skill set, and characteristics might look like in their workplace. The key here is to directly connect your skills and experience to the role. The more you make these connections for the reader, the less work they will have to do to see that you are a good fit for the role. 5. Write a Closing Paragraph and Sign Off The closing paragraph is the simplest to write and consists of "call to action" language. To begin the paragraph, restate in one sentence your enthusiasm for the role and how you can add value to their organization. Then write out your calls to action: Share how they can contact you (email, phone, etc.) Politely request an interview Thank the employer for their time Let them know to refer to your attached resume Following the last paragraph is the closing salutation, often using phrases such as “Sincerely” or “Regards”. Sign the letter with your full name. Drop-In Sessions Once you have a draft of your cover letter, stop by our office during weekly drop-in hours for a 15-minute cover letter review. No appointment needed! Hours: Monday–Thursday 12:00–4:00 p.m. Friday 12:00–3:00 p.m. Visit Us Resources Cover Letter Writing Editable Worksheet Sample Cover Letters by Career Cluster Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Formatting Your Cover Letter Your Street Address City, State, Zip Code Date Name of Person, Title Company/Organization Street Address City, State, Zip Code Dear _______: Introduction: Explain why you are writing and how you heard about the opening (if applicable). Mention the job title by name. If you have a personal connection to the organization, mention that person’s name. In 1-2 sentences, demonstrate your knowledge of the organization and why you want to work there. Based on your research, what is something unique about this organization that appeals to you? Convey your excitement and genuine interest in the organization and the opportunity to work for them. Briefly explain why you are a good match—the skills/experiences you bring that you will elaborate on in the next couple paragraphs. 2-3 Body Paragraphs: Cover the 2-3 skills or qualifications you identified from the job description. This is where you will spend the most time creating content. Using examples from your resume (without repeating your resume verbatim), tell a brief story about the experiences that best qualify you for the role. Closing: Restate in one sentence your enthusiasm for the role and how you can add value to their organization. Then write out your calls to action (share how they can contact you, politely request an interview, thank the employer for their time, and refer them to your attached resume.) Sincerely, Your Name Enclosure / Attachment Career Field-Specific Cover Letter Tips Creative Fields If you are applying with a creative resume, your cover letter should also have a creative look consistent with your resume. Consider using the same heading as your resume and the same fonts and colors. Government When applying to positions in the federal, state, or local government, make sure that you research the government agencies for which you’re applying so that you can highlight your enthusiasm and commitment to the agency’s mission in your cover letter. Similarly, if you’re applying to work with a representative (congressperson, state senator, etc.), it is important to communicate your interest in and commitment to supporting the representative’s policy initiatives. Teaching School leaders want to know why you are a good match with their school. It may be that the mission statement of the district resonates with your teaching philosophy or style; or you could focus on grade-level learning software or systems that you have experience with. While your resume tells an employer what you have taught and what principles guide your practice, the cover letter offers a better opportunity for you to convey how you teach and how you interact with students in the classroom. A narrative about a positive classroom experience can make for compelling reading! Be sure to focus on the positive outcomes for your students. Quick Links Handshake Eagle Exchange Career Clusters Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources From the Career Center Blog Yes, You Should Write A Cover Letter You’ve spent time painstakingly updating, formatting, reviewing, and revising your resume and now you’re ready to click “submit” on that March 03, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Mistakes You’re Making on Your Cover Letter The cover letter can be a tricky part of the job/internship application process. Don’t let it be a barrier between September 25, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam What to Expect at Virtual Drop-In Hours The Career Center is excited to help you during virtual drop-in hours. Our drop-in hours are a great way to September 10, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam Write a Laser-Focused Cover Letter that Gets Noticed It’s 4 o’clock on a Friday afternoon, and a tired employee still has 25 resumes and cover letters to read January 15, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam Yes, You Should Write A Cover Letter You’ve spent time painstakingly updating, formatting, reviewing, and revising your resume and now you’re ready to click “submit” on that March 03, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Mistakes You’re Making on Your Cover Letter The cover letter can be a tricky part of the job/internship application process. Don’t let it be a barrier between September 25, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam What to Expect at Virtual Drop-In Hours The Career Center is excited to help you during virtual drop-in hours. Our drop-in hours are a great way to September 10, 2020 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College