COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Political Science, Minor MinorPolitical Science All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Political Science A minor in political science from Wichita State will give you a basic background in the study of government, public policies and political behavior. The minor compliments many majors such as pre-law, business, journalism, philosophy and criminal justice—and provides knowledge useful in a wide range of careers. Learn how political science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Local student awarded $32,000 political science scholarship to WSU As a political science student, you have the opportunity to earn scholarships. The Political Science Department at Wichita State University has awarded student Daniel Caudill the 2017 Joan Hargrove Political Science Scholarship, a $32,000 award open to incoming freshman who plan to major in political science. The scholarship, gifted by TV producer Dean Hargrove, honors the memory of his mother, who worked for Hugo Wall for many years. WSU's Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs is named in his honor. Curriculum To complete the 15-credit-hour political science minor, you'll take one required course—American Politics. You'll also take 12 additional credit hours, including six hours of upper-division political science courses, based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Political Science Communication - Journalism Criminal Justice Ethnic Studies History Pre-Law 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©