Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu University Testing Center Main Navigation Writing Proficiency Exam Chemistry Placement Exam Math Qualifying Exam Common Entrance, Placement, & Certification Exams Contact Us Common Entrance, Placement & Certification Exams ACT (Assessment) Entering CSU students with less than 56 semester or 84 quarter units must submit either ACT or SAT test scores before eligibility for admission can be determined. CBEST (California Basic Education Skills Test) Students who wish to qualify for a preliminary Multiple Subject Credential or Single Subject Credential must pass the CBEST. CLEP (College Level Examination Program) CSUF grants undergraduate college credit to students who achieve passing scores on certain CLEP examinations. CSET (California Subject Examinations for Teachers) Students working towards a teaching credential may be required to take the CSET in order to verify subject matter competency. DAT (Dental Admission Test) Students desiring to enter dental school are required to take the DAT. EIT (Engineer in Training Exam) The EIT is the first step toward qualification as a registered Professional Engineer. EWP (Examination in Writing Proficiency) Students in certain gradaute programs must pass the EWP to as part of a pre-requisite or to complete thier degree. GED (General Educational Development Examination) The GED exam provides persons who have not completed high school an opportunity to achieve credit equivalent to high school graduation. GMAT (Graduate Management Admission Test) Students wishing to enter graduate programs in business are often required to take the GMAT. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) Students desiring to enter a wide range of graduate programs may be required to take the GRE. LSAT (Law School Admission Test) Students desiring to enter law school may be required to take the LSAT. MCAT (Medical College Admission Test) Students desiring to enter medical school are required to take the MCAT. MQE (Mathematics Qualifying Exam) Students at CSUF who wish to enroll in Mathematics 130, 135 or 150A must pass the MQE. SAT (SAT I) and Subject Tests (SAT II) Entering CSU students with less than 56 semester or 84 quarter units must submit either ACT or SAT-I test scores before eligibility for admission can be determined. TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) All applicants to CSUF regardless of citizenship, whose native language or language of instruction is other than English are required to present scores for the Test of English as a Foreign Language. PTE (Pearson Test of English) The PTE measures communicative skills listening, reading, speaking, and writing skills for non-native speakers of English. Passing scores: Undergraduate: 43 Graduate: 58 This site is maintained by University Testing Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact testingcenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.