Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>Students>Academic Services>Advising Advising The Office of Academic Services is available to help students with any questions related to degree planning, course selection, and graduation. If you have questions concerning your academic progress, you may make an advising appointment with Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski, Director of Academic Services. Appointments can be scheduled by email at JoAnn_Reinowski@baylor.edu or sign up in the Academic Services Office, Truett 205. Before you come in for an appointment, please run a copy of your degree audit for yourself and review your academic progress. Degree Audits All students must run a degree audit at least once/semester (especially prior to registering for classes) to follow their academic progress. A degree audit tells you: Your graduate certificate/concentration and degree plan What courses you have completed towards your degree requirements What courses are still lacking for graduation For more information on degree audits, please visit the Baylor Registrar's page. How to OBTAIN a Degree Audit online: Go to bearweb.baylor.edu and log in Go to "Student Academic Services" Click "Student Records" Click "Degree Audit" Click "Run Degree Audit" Click "Run Audit" (choose "List all requirements") Click "View Submitted Audits" (may take up to 5 minutes to appear) View or print your degree audit How to READ a Degree Audit: Hours Earned = completed hours on your program "+" sign: demonstrates courses are completed IP = RG: indicates courses for which you are currently registered Needs: indicates hours you still need to graduate "-" sign: indicates courses you are lacking If you see any courses listed under "work not applicable," this means you are taking classes that are not a part of your degree plan! You must fill out a course substitution petition to learn if those courses may count towards your degree plan. Advising Meals Every semester, the Office of Academic Services hosts three advising meals. All students are required to attend at least one advising meal each year. Students are encouraged to attend at least one advising meal each semester. Advising meals offer students the opportunity to review their degree programs with the professor who serves as the advisor to their concentration, learn about any changes to registration in the Baylor system, and check their academic progress. Frequently Asked Questions What is the curriculum revision and how does it affect me? Truett Seminary will undergo a curriculum revision that will take effect in summer 2019. All students who begin classes at Truett during the summer of 2019 or later will be under the new catalog requirements. No current student will be required to update to the new degree program. Students may stay in their current degree plan. Each student will need to assess if it works to her/his benefit to change degree programs. Normally a student will fulfill the degree requirements as listed in the catalog of the year of initial, continual enrollment. The student may, however, choose the requirements as listed for any other specific academic year in which the student is enrolled. Students who desire to change catalogs must meet with the Director of Academic Services to review the implications of the change as it relates to the student’s academic progress. Students are responsible for submitting the appropriate paperwork for a change of catalog to the Director of Academic Services. I want to change my concentration or graduate certificate. When should I do it and how? If you desire to change your concentration or graduate certificate, you must do so before you reach 60 hours. Concentrations can be changed by completing a "Concentration Declaration" form and turning it in to Academic Services. I want to change my degree program. When should I do it and how? If you desire to change your degree program, you must do so at least one semester prior to graduation. You can change your degree program by completing a "Degree Change" form and turning it in to Academic Services. Note that there are financial implications associated with certain degree changes. How do I add or drop a class after the semester has started? Students may add/drop on Bearweb until the 12th class day*. After that time, all add/drops must be processed through Academic Services 205. If you add a class late, you will be charged a $40 late fee. If you drop a class late, starting on the 6th class day*, you will only receive 75% of your tuition back. If you drop a class after the 12th class day*, your scholarship has already gone toward the cost of that class and you will have lost those hours from your Baptist Student Scholarship, which covers 93 attempted hour on the M.Div (60 hrs on MACM and 48 hrs on MTS). *The class days listed above are for fall & spring semesters. There is a different timeline for summer/intensive courses. Who is my Academic Advisor? Seminary Students are assigned an advisor based upon their year of entry, degree program, or concentration. All incoming students should contact Student Services for Academic Advising. Students who have completed at least one semester of seminary or are transfer students may seek advising through Academic Services. In general, faculty advise students twice a year during the Advising Meals. If you would like to visit with your faculty advisor about your academic progress, please plan on attending the Advising Meals that occur each fall and spring. Please note that if you need help with academic advising at a time other than the advising meals, you may make an appointment with the Academic Services Office. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski is available to help students who may have questions about course scheduling, degree plans, concentrations, or graduation. Does a "W" on my transcript count against my GPA? No, a "W" represents a dropped class. It does not count against your GPA. However, this does mean that you have a class that your scholarship money has gone towards that you did not receive credit for. You will see the result of this near the end of your time at seminary, after you have completed your 93 attempted hours (for M.Div), when your tuition is charged at a higher rate. How do I find out when I am able to register? Students are strongly encouraged to register on time! The further along you are in your program, the earlier you may register - take advantage of this opportunity. If you are a graduating student and you wait until the last minute to register, you may miss the opportunity to register for the classes you need and you will be required to join the waitlist. To find out when you can register, login to BearWeb > Student Academic Services > Registration > Registration Status. What is the waitlist and why should I join it? When a class is full, students have the opportunity to join the waitlist. The waitlist holds a place for you in a closed class. If a seat should become available, students on the waitlist are invited to register in the order that they are on the list. Being on the waitlist is not the same thing as registering for a class. If you receive an email that a space has opened up, you have 24 hours to register for the class on BearWeb. Remember that Baylor requires all departments to use the waitlist system. Students should not email their professors to request a space in a class that is full. If you are concerned that you might not get into a class you need, join the waitlist and keep an eye on your email. If you are planning to graduate and need that class for graduation, email Jo Ann. I’m a commuter student and I need to take classes at a specific time. How do I find out what classes are offered when? Login to https://www1.baylor.edu/scheduleofclasses/. Select "Seminary" under colleges and select what day of the week you can take classes under days, such as "M" for Monday-only classes. I tried to register for a class, but the Bearweb says I need a permit. What is this and how do I get a permit? Certain classes require a permit. Permits are necessary to register for any course that requires pre-requisites, professor approval, out of town travel, or an application. For example, Integrative Seminar (PRTH 7391) requires a permit as students may only register for this course during their final year may register. To receive a permit, first ensure that you have met the requirements for the class. Then, you must either petition the professor or Jo Ann Reinowski. Do I register for COVG or PRTH? Students who begin taking classes at Truett during Fall 2019 or later should register for PRTH 7101, 7102, 7103, and 7004 to meet their Spiritual Formation requirement. Students who began at Truett prior to Fall 2019 should continue to register for COVG. Students who change to the 2019-2020 curriculum should continue to register for COVG to stay with their same Covenant Group. Do I need to be registered for the right semester of Covenant Group/Spiritual Formation? Doesn’t attending my group each week count? You must be registered for the correct semester of Covenant Group/Spiritual Formation every semester. Even if you are leading a group, you need to register for the semester for which you need credit. Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Handbook Opportunities Professors of Record Deadlines FAQs Mentoring Program Application Mentoring Resources Currently Mentoring Mentoring Resources Mentoring Notebook Submission Form Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Need Help? Contact Academic Services George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift