skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Accommodations Americans with Disabilities Act compliance Service animal policy Unlawful discrimination and harassment Affirmative Action policy Unlawful discrimination and harassment complaint process Policy against discrimination and sexual harassment Title IX Bystanders and others Title IX complaint process Sexual harassment Meet the Title IX team Resources for undocumented and DACA students Resources Trainings offered by EO/TIX Frequently asked questions Supervisor resources Staff directory Apply Visit News Give Equal Opportunity & Title IX Every Member of the Pack Treated with Dignity and Respect Accommodations Americans with Disabilities Act compliance Service animal policy Unlawful discrimination and harassment Affirmative Action policy Unlawful discrimination and harassment complaint process Policy against discrimination and sexual harassment Title IX Bystanders and others Title IX complaint process Sexual harassment Meet the Title IX team Resources for undocumented and DACA students Resources Trainings offered by EO/TIX Frequently asked questions Supervisor resources Staff directory Our goal is to ensure that you have the right to an education and to work and advance in employment on the basis of merit, ability, and potential without fear of discrimination. In short our vision is to see, Every Member of The Pack Treated With Dignity and Respect. EO/TIX is located on the second floor of the Continuing Education Building, in room 206. EO/TIX houses the University's Title IX Coordinator, and ADA Coordinator, Maria Doucettperry. Maria can be reached via email at eotix@unr.edu or via telephone at (775) 784-1547. NSHE is committed to providing a place of work and learning free of discrimination on the basis of a person’s age (40 or older), disability, whether actual or perceived by others (including service-connected disabilities), gender (including pregnancy related conditions), military status or military obligations, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, national origin, race (including hair texture and protected hairstyles such as natural hairstyles, afros, bantu knots, curls, braids, locks and twists), color, or religion (protected classes). Submit a report or request Core functions of EO/TIX Office Investigations EO/TIX does not advocate on behalf of any party. When we receive a complaint of sexual harassment, sexual violence, or of unlawful discrimination or retaliation, we act as an independent fact-finder. When an investigation is requested, EO/TIX will conduct a fair and impartial investigation regarding submitted allegations focused on the information available. EO/TIX works to protect the confidentiality of all investigations to the extent possible, however, this may be limited by necessity to ensure a thorough investigation, and by the law. During the investigation, the investigator will gather all relevant available information and evidence including party and witness statements, relevant documentation, electronic evidence or other evidence related to the allegations (e.g., text messages, photos, phone records, etc.). Information obtained through an investigation will only be shared with those who have a legitimate business need to know. EO/TIX reviews available information utilizing a preponderance of the evidence standard. While the actual process for a specific case may vary depending on the allegations, and various circumstances (e.g., jurisdiction, complaining parties’ desires, etc.) complaints are generally processed as indicated in the flowchart below. Prevention and compliance EO/TIX provides training and various workshops for students, employees, and campus organizations related to the prevention of sexual misconduct, discrimination, and harassment. Our office also offers training on Consent, Relationships, the Role of a Responsible Employee, DACA and Undocumented Rights and Resources, and Recognizing and Utilizing Privilege to Effect Positive Change. Programs are free and can be tailored for specific groups. Faculty and staff can even schedule specialized trainings in lieu of otherwise canceling classes. Schedule a workshop or training by contacting our office or contact one of the many offices on campus that offer related programming so that everyone knows what they can do to be part of the solution as we work to eradicate sexual violence, harassment, and discrimination from our campus. Resources The University of Nevada Reno is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and supportive campus culture. To this end, the Equal Opportunity and Title IX office serves as a resource and leader in furthering the University’s commitment to equity and diversity working to promote equal opportunity for all members of the Wolf Pack Community. Through educational programming, policy review, and collaborative campus initiatives, EO/TIX helps to ensure the university’s compliance with all applicable civil rights legislation. EO/TIX offers options and resources to individuals affected by these issues. These resources vary depending on circumstances. When requested and reasonably available, EO/TIX can assist in obtaining interim measures and resources. These resources may include, but are not limited to No Contact Directives, Scheduling assistance, Escorts, and modifications of living, dining, academic, and employment arrangements. These resources are available to all involved parties and will be confidential to the extent that such confidentiality will not impair the effectiveness of the implemented resource. Contact our office for more information. In addition to the resources provided through the Equal Opportunity and Title IX office, a variety of resources are available to any member of the Wolf Pack community who has been affected by sexual violence, harassment, or discrimination and needs additional support. The University’s many resources are available to provide both immediate and long-term support and guidance. These entities focus on providing you with the help and support you need. You may find it useful to ask about confidentiality and privilege at the start of your conversation to fully understand any reporting obligations. Resources designated as “confidential” will not report any information to the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Office. These conversations are kept strictly confidential and, except in extreme, rare circumstances, will not be shared with anyone without your explicit permission. Remember: Regardless of when or where an incident occurred, help is still available. Resources are available even if you choose not to file a formal complaint with the University or with law enforcement. Office Contact Information Location: Continuing Education Building Room Number: 206 Mailing Address: 1664 North Virginia Street | Reno, NV 89557 Phone: (775) 784-1547 Fax: (775) 784-1972 Directory: Contact Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX