Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Computer programming News UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. UCF Programming Team Advances to World Finals The UCF team beat out teams like Stanford, Harvard and CalTech to continue its streak of qualifying for the World Finals every year during the past decade. Knights Do That Podcast with Daniel West UCF computer science student Daniel West looks ahead to defending his home turf at the North America championship round of the 2021 International Collegiate Programming Contest. UCF Programming Team Advances to North America Championship Held at UCF for the first time, the next round of the International Collegiate Programming Contest will match 32 finalist teams and about 15 are expected to advance to the world competition. President Whittaker Welcomes College GameDay to UCF Sometimes there are moments you know you’ll remember the rest of your life. This week will be one of those for Knight Nation. ESPN College… New FIEA Programmer Uses Code To Connect People Whether building an antenna, creating an app or speaking one of four languages, Pratik Chougule loves bringing people together. UCF Programming Team Places 1st in North America, 10th Worldwide UCF defeated teams from Harvard, MIT and Stanford, among others, to finish first in the U.S. and Canada. Nation’s Top 10 Again: UCF Programming Team The University of Central Florida’s Computer Programming Team moved up several spots to take third place in the nation after competing in an international super… UCF 3rd in Nation, 21st in ‘World Cup’ of Computer Programming The University of Central Florida placed third the nation and 21st in the world in the “World Cup” of computer programming competitions. UCF placed after… UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida