Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE PEDIATRICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PEDS 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 35) For medical students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 498 PEDS 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Participation in various clinical or basic research programs in progress, specifically: child development, developmental biology, human embryology and teratology, medical genetics, infectious diseases, neonatology, neuroembryology, cardiology, endocrinology and metabolism, immunology, respiratory disease. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 499 PEDS 505 P-Preceptorship in Pediatrics (1, max. 12) To provide opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to gain personal experience with medical practice situations for pediatricians by being stationed with carefully selected clinical faculty members in their offices. Enrollment limited. Coordinator: Department of Pediatrics. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 505 PEDS 513 Scientific Investigation in Pediatric Medicine (1) Faculty Investigators in the Department of Pediatrics will lecture on the general biology of their research area and its relevance to understanding pediatric disease and developing therapies. Given the varied nature of research represented in the Department of Pediatrics, the course will be wide-ranging and include basic science and clinical/translational approaches. Each participating investigator will give one 1-hour presentation. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 513 PEDS 530 P-Homeless Youth and Their Medical Care (1) Seminar and interview practice; students learn how to deal with special health problems and other related problems of "street kids" through interviews and observations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 530 PEDS 562 Ethical Issues in Pediatrics (3) Nancy S. Jecker, Douglas S. Diekema Provides a survey of contemporary ethical issues that arise in the clinical and research environment when children are involved, including the role of children and adolescents in decision-making, the limits of parental decision-making authority, and issues related to genetic testing, transplantation, research, and public health. Offered: jointly with B H 562; A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 562 PEDS 598 P-Pediatrics Independent Study and Remediation (*, max. 8) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pediatrics Clerkship offered during the patient care phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: department permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 598 PEDS 600 Independent Study or Research (*) Facilitates and promotes mentored independent study/scholarship related to the care of children. Students participate in projects that promote individual, self-directed and creative scholarly activity with appropriate supervision, oversight, and mentorship with an emphasis on the process of scholarship. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 600 PEDS 609 Indian Healthcare Clerkship (8, max. 16) Examines the health disparities, health systems, and cultural/community strengths associated with American Indian/Alaska Native or other indigenous peoples. Prerequisite: either UCONJ 530, Indian Health Pathway declaration, or permission of course coordinator. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 609 PEDS 610 Traditional Indian Medicine (8, max. 24) Students experience how Western physicians collaborate with traditional Indian healers (and vice versa) to best care for American Indian and Alaska Native patients. Prerequisite: UCONJ 530; Indian Health Pathway declaration; and advanced permission from Indian Health Pathway Program Manager. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 610 PEDS 611 P-UW Youth Clinic (1, max. 2) Participation in a free clinic for out-of-home youth, at either the ROOTS Young Adult Shelter in the University District or Nexus Youth and Families in Auburn. Clinical services include general medical care, with a focus on reproductive health, STD evaluations/treatment, and the impact of a homeless lifestyle on general health. (Limit per rotation: one student.) Prerequisite: completion of Internal Medicine or Pediatrics Patient Care required clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 611 PEDS 612 Pediatric Intensive Care - HMC (8) Elective in Pediatric Intensive Care at Harborview Medical Center. Open to Explore and Focus medical students who have completed their Core Pediatrics Rotation. Students will be expected to manage patients with the supervision of the Pediatric Critical Care attending or fellow. Students will have the opportunity to manage patients with complex multisystem disease and learn key elements of acute resuscitation in the intensive care setting. Prerequisite: Explore and Focus standing, completion of Core Pediatrics Rotation. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 612 PEDS 613 Pediatric Gastroenterology (8) Fourth-year medical students will see clinical pediatric gastrointestinal problems under close faculty supervision. They will participate in inpatient gastroenterology consultations, outpatient clinic evaluations for new and follow-up patients, and (observe) endoscopic and therapeutic gastrointestinal procedures. Prerequisite: Completion of Peds, IM and Surgery required clerkships Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 613 PEDS 614 Advocacy and Community Partnerships Elective (8) Month-long elective rotation that provides medical students the opportunity to learn about and practice health advocacy. Students develop a basic understanding of social determinants of health, learn about health policy, participate in legislative office visits, and work directly with community agencies on a mutually agreeable project. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 614 PEDS 620 Pediatric Sub-Specialty Clinics-Billings (4, max. 8) The student will choose 2 weeks of specialty clinics based on student interest and availability of faculty preceptors at the time of the rotation. Available clinics include: Pediatric Cardiology, Pulmonary, Gastroenterology and Neurology. The maximum time spent with one specialty is 2 weeks; the minimum is one week. Students will evaluate both patients seen in consultation and patients returning for on going care for existing problems. Prerequisite: completion of Pediatrics Clinical Clerkship. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 620 PEDS 623 Pediatrics Child Abuse - Spokane, WA (4, max. 8) Exposes future clinicians to the most common issues relating to child abuse and neglect. (Limit: one student). Prerequisite: fourth-year medical students who have completed their core pediatrics rotation; permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 623 PEDS 624 Pediatric Emergency Medicine - Spokane (8) Students manage patients with the supervision of a Pediatric Emergency Medicine attending or fellow. Includes the opportunity to manage patients with a wide spectrum of disease processes as well as learn key emergency medicine procedural skills. Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; by departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 624 PEDS 625 Pediatric Emergency Medicine (8) Elective in Pediatric Emergency Department at Seattle Children's Hospital. Students manage patients with the supervision of a Pediatric Emergency Medicine attending or fellow. Includes the opportunity to manage patients with a wide spectrum of disease processes as well as learn key emergency medicine procedural skills. Prerequisite: fourth- year medical students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 625 PEDS 628 P-Pediatric Allergy and Immunology - Missoula (*, max. 24) The clinic involves seeing patients with allergy asthma and immunology disorders, such as seasonal allergies, allergic rashes, asthma, chronic cough, chronic sinusitis, contact dermatitis, bee sting allergy, food allergies and more. Focus on obtaining a detailed history, physical exam and formulating a personalized management plan for patients. Training and interpretation of major procedures - allergen skin, patch and pulmonary function testing. Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 628 PEDS 629 Neonatal Pediatrics- Missoula, MT (4, max. 24) Participation in the activities in the newborn and premature divisions; ward rounds, seminars, conferences, and familiarization with certain laboratory techniques, particularly those relating to acid-base balance. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 629 PEDS 630 P-WRITE Pediatrics Clinical Clerkship (*, max. 24) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in the WRITE Program. Prerequisite: PEDS 665 , impatient only; acceptance in the WRITE program. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 630 PEDS 631 LIC Pediatrics Clinical Clerkship (12) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in the LIC program. Prerequisite: acceptance into LIC program. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 631 PEDS 635 Pediatric Cardiology - Boise, ID (4/8, max. 24) Michael S. Womack Emphasis on physical examination skills. Application of fundamental anatomy and physiology to analyze a variety of cardiovascular situations, normal and abnormal, applicable to any medical field, including congenital heart disease. Independent reading and analysis of relevant anatomy and physiology for one-on-one discussion. Clinic and catheterization laboratory each week. (Two or four week rotation. Limit: one student). Prerequisite: permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 635 PEDS 636 Pediatric Cardiology - Spokane (4, max. 24) Elective rotation with an emphasis on physical diagnosis, electrocardiography, clinical knowledge of diagnostic techniques and surgical possibilities for inpatients and outpatients with cardiovascular problems. Opportunity to observe catheterizations and cardiovascular operations. Weekly clinics and twice-daily inpatient rounds. (Limit per rotation: one student.) Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 636 PEDS 637 Pediatric Cardiology - Anchorage (4, max. 24) Elective rotation with an emphasis on physical diagnosis , electrocardiography , clinical knowledge of diagnostic techniques and surgical possibilities for inpatients and outpatients with cardiovascular problems. Opportunity to observe catheterizations and cardiovascular operations. Weekly clinics and twice-daily inpatient rounds. (Limit per rotation: one student.) Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 637 PEDS 638 Pediatric Cardiology - Missoula (4, max. 24) Elective rotation with an emphasis on physical diagnosis , electrocardiography , clinical knowledge of diagnostic techniques and surgical possibilities for inpatients and outpatients with cardiovascular problems. Opportunity to observe catheterizations and cardiovascular operations. Weekly clinics and twice-daily inpatient rounds. (Limit per rotation: one student.) Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 638 PEDS 640 Pediatric Gastroenterology - Boise (4, max. 24) Elective rotation where students see clinical pediatric gastrointestinal problems, participate in inpatient gastroenterology consultations, outpatient clinic evaluations for new and follow-up patients, and (observe) endoscopic and therapeutic gastrointestinal procedures. (Limit: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 640 PEDS 641 Pediatric General Clerkship - Gillette, WY (12) Offers a comprehensive overview of the approach for providing care to children and their families. Explores the range of reasons children seek medical care, from well-child visits to acute medical problems. Students gain experience in inpatient and outpatient settings and the ongoing management of chronic illnesses. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 641 PEDS 642 Pediatric Clinical Clerkship - Sheridan, WY (12) Offers a comprehensive overview of the approach for providing care to children and their families. Explores the range of reasons children seek medical care, from well-child visits to acute medical problems. Students gain experience in inpatient and outpatient settings and the ongoing management of chronic illnesses. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 642 PEDS 643 Pediatric General Clerkship - Spokane Kaiser (1-24, max. 25) The core pediatric clerkship is designed to provide a comprehensive overview of the approach to the care of children and their families. In addition, explores the range of reasons children seek medical care, from well child visits to acute medical problems in both inpatient and outpatient settings and the ongoing management of chronic illnesses. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 643 PEDS 644 Pediatric General Ckerkship - Wasilla, AK (1-24, max. 25) General introductory pediatric clerkship. Student will split time in hospital setting, outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third-and fourth year students. (Six weeks, full-time. Limit per rotation: one student). Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 644 PEDS 645 Pediatric General Clerkship - Kalispell (1-24, max. 25) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One half in hospital setting; one half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third and fourth year student. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 645 PEDS 646 Pediatric General Clerkship - Walla Walla, WA (12) Offers a comprehensive overview of the approach for providing care to children and their families. Explores the range of reasons children seek medical care, from well-child visits to acute medical problems. Students gain experience in inpatient and outpatient settings and the ongoing management of chronic illnesses. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 646 PEDS 647 Pediatric General Clerkship- Lewiston, ID (1-24, max. 25) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department or clinic. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 647 PEDS 648 Pediatric General Clerkship - Everett, WA (1-24, max. 25) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One half in hospital setting; one half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third-and fourth year students. (Six weeks, full-time. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 648 PEDS 650 Pediatric General Clerkship - Moses Lake, WA (1-24, max. 25) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department or clinic. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: two students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 650 PEDS 651 Pediatric General Clerkship - Bozeman, MT (1-24, max. 25) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department or clinic. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: two students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 651 PEDS 652 Pediatric General Clerkship - Idaho Falls, ID (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department or clinic. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: two students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 652 PEDS 653 Pediatric General Clerkship - Helena, MT (*, max. 24) General introductory impatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship. Provides exposure to diverse settings where children receive health services. The six-week experience takes s place in Helena, MT. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 653 PEDS 655 Pediatric General Clerkship - Jackson, WY (*, max. 24) General introductory inpatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship. Takes place primarily in an active pediatric group practice with appropriate outpatient and inpatient opportunities, including access to a community hospital with nursery, pediatric beds, and physician-staffed emergency room. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 655 PEDS 656 Pediatric General Clerkship - Wenatchee (*, max. 24) General introductory inpatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 656 PEDS 657 P-Pediatric General Clerkship - Missoula (*, max. 24) General introductory inpatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship. Provides exposure to diverse settings where children receive health services. The six-week experience takes place in three active pediatric practices with appropriate outpatient and inpatient opportunities and at Community Medical Center. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: one or two students.) Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 657 PEDS 658 Pediatric General Clerkship - Boise (*, max. 24) General introductory inpatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship. Provides exposure to diverse settings where children receive health services. The six-week experience takes place in three active pediatric practices with appropriate outpatient and inpatient opportunities and at St. Luke's Medical Center. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: one or two students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 658 PEDS 659 Pediatric General Clerkship - Billings, MT (*, max. 24) General introductory inpatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship. Exposes students to diverse settings where children receive health services. The six-week experience takes place primarily in two active pediatric group practices with appropriate outpatient and inpatient opportunities. (Six weeks, full time. Limit: per rotation: one student.) Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 659 PEDS 660 Pediatric General Clerkship - Cheyenne, WY (*, max. 24) Introductory inpatient and outpatient pediatric clerkship that exposes students to environments in settings where children receive medical and health services. The six-week experience takes place primarily in an active pediatric group practice with appropriate outpatient and inpatient opportunities. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 660 PEDS 661 Pediatric General Clerkship - Anchorage (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: three students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 661 PEDS 663 P-Pediatric General Clerkship - Mary Bridge (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Location preferences are considered. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: three or four students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 663 PEDS 664 P-Pediatric General Clerkship - Pocatello, ID (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 664 PEDS 665 P-Pediatric General Clerkship - Seattle (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department or clinic. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: ten students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 665 PEDS 666 P-Pediatric General Clerkship - Great Falls, MT (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: two students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 666 PEDS 667 Pediatric General Clerkship - Madigan (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: two students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 667 PEDS 668 P-Pediatric General Clerkship - Spokane (*, max. 24) General introductory pediatric clerkship. One-half in hospital setting; one-half in outpatient department, clinic, or private office. Open to all third- and fourth-year medical students. (Six weeks, full time. Limit per rotation: two or three students). Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 668 PEDS 669 P-Neonatal Pediatrics - Clerkship (*, max. 24) Participation in the activities in the newborn and premature divisions; ward rounds, seminars, conferences, and familiarization with certain laboratory techniques, particularly those relating to acid-base balance. (Limit per rotation: one or two students). Prerequisite: PEDS and OB GYN core clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 669 PEDS 670 P-Pediatric Infectious Diseases (*, max. 24) Students see and work up clinic consultations and present in detail to attending physician. Daily rounds include problem-solving discussions and didactic presentations in broad category of infectious diseases. Opportunity for experience in clinical research and laboratory techniques. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS and MED core clerkships; fourth-year medical student standing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 670 PEDS 671 Pediatric Endocrinology (*, max. 24) Focuses on the evaluation of the normal progression of hormone mediated processes in children and the recognition, diagnosis, and management of a variety of endocrine problems. Includes participation in clinics, impatient endocrine rounds, and a variety of conferences at Seattle Children's Hospital. (Limit per rotation: one student.) Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 671 PEDS 672 P-Office Practice - Spokane (*, max. 12) Opportunity to observe and function in the private office settings of a number of clinical pediatric faculty and to accompany pediatricians as they pursue their daily activities in the community. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 672 PEDS 673 P-Office Practice (*, max. 12) Opportunity to observe and function in the private office settings of a number of clinical pediatric faculty and to accompany pediatricians as they pursue their daily activities in the community. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 673 PEDS 674 P-Pediatric Genetics - Spokane (*, max. 24) Clinical focus on evaluation and management of children with genetic disorders. Exposure to genetic counseling, the evaluation of children with hereditary structural defects, and diagnosis and management of children with inborn errors of metabolism. Emphasis on genetic mechanisms that cause human disease. (Two or four weeks. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 674 PEDS 675 P-Clinical Complementary and Integrative Medicine (4/8, max. 8) Clinical rotation for students interested in Complementary and Integrative Medicine (CIM). Students arrange clinical placements with selected CIM providers in the community: naturopathic physician, chiropractor, acupuncturist, and massage therapist. Students arrange their own schedules and must do so at least four weeks in advance of the rotation. (Limit per rotation: one or two students). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 675 PEDS 677 P-Pediatric Intensive Care (8) Students manage patients with the supervision of the Pediatric Critical Care attending or fellow at Seattle Children's Hospital. Includes the opportunity to manage patients with complex multisystem disease and learn key elements of acute resuscitation in the intensive-care setting. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 677 PEDS 678 P-Pediatric Infectious Diseases - Boise (*, max. 24) Students see and work up clinic consultations and present in detail to attending physician. Daily rounds include problem-solving discussions and didactic presentations in broad category of infectious diseases. Opportunity for experience in clinical research and laboratory techniques. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS and MED core clerkships; third- or fourth-year medical student standing; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 678 PEDS 679 P-Clinical Problems in Developmental Disabilities (*, max. 12) Experience in multidisciplinary evaluation and management of the handicapped child. Student performs pediatric evaluations, obtains appropriate consultations, observes additional professional assessments (e.g., psychological testing), and plans rehabilitation program. Opportunity to provide parent counseling. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 679 PEDS 681 P-Medical Genetics (*, max. 24) Clinical focus on evaluation and management of children with genetic disorders. Exposure to genetic counseling, the evaluation of children with hereditary structural defects, and diagnosis and management of children with inborn errors of metabolism. Emphasis on genetic mechanisms that cause human disease. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 681 PEDS 683 P-Pediatric Nephrology (8) Four-week elective clerkship at Seattle Children's Hospital. Students participate in nephrology and transplant rounds, consult with renal fellows and attendings, and work up patients in renal clinics. Participation in seminars; special course in fluid balance. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: third- or fourth-year medical student; PEDS and MED core clerkships; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 683 PEDS 684 P-Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine (8) Respiratory disorders, diagnostic techniques, and treatments unique to children in the inpatient, intensive care, and outpatient settings. Application of principles of pulmonary physiology to clinical problems. Students conduct consultations under the supervision of the attending and present a topic of choice. Inpatient rounds and clinics. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship, fourth-year medical student standing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 684 PEDS 685 P-Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (*, max. 24) One-on-one teaching plus four weekly didactic sessions. Specific training in techniques and interpretation of bone marrow aspirations, intravenous chemotherapy, transfusions, and laboratory techniques of hematologic evaluation. Self-learning programs available. (Two or four weeks, full-time. Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 685 PEDS 686 P-Pediatric Cardiology (*, max. 24) Emphasis on physical diagnosis and electrocardiography and on clinical knowledge of diagnostic techniques and surgical possibilities for inpatients and outpatients with cardiovascular problems. Opportunity to observe catheterizations and cardiovascular operations. Weekly clinics and twice-daily inpatient rounds. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 686 PEDS 687 Neonatal Pediatric Clerkship (4) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 687 PEDS 688 Pediatric Rheumatology (8) Exposes students to a wide range of pediatric rheumatologic diseases and provides them with the opportunity to evaluate new patients, help work up and manage inpatients with complex multisystem disease, and learn key elements of evaluation and treatment of childhood rheumatic diseases. Open to 4th year medical students. Prerequisite: completion of core pediatrics rotation; interest in rheumatology. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 688 PEDS 689 P-Advanced Rural Pediatrics - Ft. Washakie, WY (8) Student functions at the sub-intern level to care for patients with acute pediatric illness, proved well child care, and provide follow up care to patients seen in the newborn nursery, Level II Neonatal ICU, hospitalizations, and previous clinic visits. Students interested should make arrangements well in advance of registration. Prerequisite: required clerkship in Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Internal Medicine, and Surgery. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 689 PEDS 690 Advanced Pediatric Clerkship - Boise (*, max. 24) Inpatient and/or outpatient experience with responsibilities comparable to intern for patient workup, diagnosis, and care at St. Lukes Hospital. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 690 PEDS 691 P-Advanced Pediatric Clerkship - Seattle (*, max. 24) Inpatient and/or outpatient experience with responsibilities comparable to intern for patient workup, diagnosis, and care as Seattle Children's. (Limit per rotation: three students). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 691 PEDS 692 P-Advanced Pediatric Clerkship - Spokane (*, max. 24) Inpatient and outpatient experience with responsibilities comparable to intern for patient workup, diagnosis, and care at Sacred Hearth Children's Hospital. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: PEDS core clerkship; departmental permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 692 PEDS 693 Advanced Pediatric Subinternship - Mary Bridge (*, max. 24) Inpatient and outpatient experience with responsibilities comparable to intern for patient workup, diagnosis, and care. (Limit per rotation: one student). Prerequisite: Core Clerkship in PEDS, OB/GYN, I-Med, Surgery; departmental permission. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 693 PEDS 694 P-Pediatric Adolecent Medicine (8) Elective in Adolescent Medicine at Seattle Children's Hospital. Open to 4th year medical students who have completed their Core pediatrics Rotation. Students will be expected to manage patients with the supervision of attending physicians. Students will have the opportunity to manage adolescent patients in the outpatient setting and learn key elements of subspecialty care of adolescents. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 694 PEDS 695 Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (4) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 695 PEDS 696 Pediatric Endocrinology (4) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 696 PEDS 697 P-Pediatric Special Electives (*, max. 24) By specific arrangement, for qualified students, special clerkship externship or research opportunities at institutions other than University of Washington. The faculty can advise of possible opportunities. Obtain special assignment form from the Department of Pediatrics at least one month before preregistration. Prerequisite: permission of department and the away site. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 697 PEDS 698 Pediatric Boot Camp (4) Focuses on what is needed on day one of internship to care for children through hands-on experience, simulation, group problem solving, role-playing, didactics, and supplemental reading material. Emphasizes the acquisition and practice of core skills. Themes include communication, procedural competency, and medical decision making pertinent to both inpatient and outpatient pediatrics. (Two weeks.) Prerequisite: Prerequisite: fourth-year standing; departmental approval. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 698 PEDS 699 P-WWAMI Pediatrics Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department and the away site. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDS 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022