Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY ORAL MEDICINE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ORALM 404 Considerations in Care of the Patient with a Disability (*, max. 6) Role of auxiliaries in dental treatment of the special patient, including psychosocial issues, communication techniques, wheelchair transfers; dental prevention, medical and dental management of specific disabilities; drug therapy, sedation, and anesthesia. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 404 ORALM 460 Clinical Management of Patients with Disabilities (*, max. 10) Participation in chair/bedside dental treatment of a broad range of disabled populations, including homebound and institutionalized patients. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 460 ORALM 550 P-Directed Studies in Oral Diagnosis (*, max. 12) See DPHS 449 for course description. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 550 ORALM 565 Oral Medicine Clinical Conference (*, max. 16) Clinical conference in which diagnostic data concerning patients seen in the oral medicine clinic are presented for evaluation. When possible, the patient is present with laboratory findings, radiographs, and the results of special tests. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 565 ORALM 570 Oral Medicine and Therapy (2-, max. 6) Lecture directed toward the presentation and discussion of oral diseases and oral manifestations of systemic disease. Primarily the clinical manifestations' relationship to generalized disease processes and patient management with in-depth discussions of therapy. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 570 ORALM 576 Oral Medicine Literature Review (1) Seminar analyzes the recent literature concerning the area of oral medicine, diagnosis, and therapy for oral disease. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 576 ORALM 580 Current Concepts in Oral Radiology (2) Lecture/seminar covering current concepts in oral radiology including technical factors, radiation risks, observer characteristics and variation, radiographic localization, interpretation, and overview of current extraoral techniques. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 580 ORALM 581 Advanced Seminars in Oral Radiology (2, max. 8) Explores aspects of oral and maxillofacial radiology and related fields. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 581 ORALM 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 600 ORALM 601 Oral Medicine Research Seminar (1, max. 10) Presentation and discussion of current research problems by graduate students, faculty, and investigators from other departments in the university. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 601 ORALM 650 P-Oral Medicine Clinical Elective (1-6, max. 6) Opportunities for students to work in various clinical activities at local hospitals or other sites outside the school. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 650 ORALM 651 Health and Homelessness - Elective (1-, max. 12) Addresses oral and systemic health issues in the homeless in Seattle. Service based learning and includes presentations, readings, reflections, health education, and dental care delivery with the goal of preparing dental students to work in an interprofessional environment with other healthcare providers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 651 ORALM 652 Health Issues in the Homeless and Underserved-Selective (1) Students learn about the causes and challenges of homelessness and lack of access to care and how it affects systemic and oral health. The course includes a minimum of 12 clinical service learning hours in the community (clinical opportunities are provided) as well as online learning. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 652 ORALM 653 Advanced Cone Beam CT Imaging and Interpretation - Selective (1) Explores CBCT: plan/follow-up implant placement (with or without surgical guide), assess pathology, assess dento-alveol trauma and explore anatomical variations, in combination with: radiation protection, choice of field of view, resolution, exposure parameters, patient positioning, and interpretation of the acquired images. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 653 ORALM 654 DECOD Advanced Clinical - Selective (1) Students will engage in clinical activities in special care dentistry, treating patients with developmental and/or acquired disabilities in the DECOD Clinic. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 654 ORALM 655 Peer Mentor - ORALM - Selective (1) This course allows 4th year dental students to mentor 3rd year dental students during their clinical experiences in Dental Education in the Care of Persons with Disabilities (DECOD). Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 655 ORALM 656 Clinical Oral Medicine Rotation at SCCA - Selective (1) Through clinical experiences, this course provides an overview of medical oncology. Students learn the basic of medical oncology, especially hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Students will be given the opportunity to participate in the examination and the direction of care in the Oral Medicine Service at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 656 ORALM 657 Botulinum Toxin Therapies in Dentistry (1) Focus on both aesthetic and therapeutic procedures that the dentist uses to treat patients. Administration of BTX-A will be demonstrated for and performed by dental students or graduate students for both treatment of orofacial pain and movement disorders as well as facial aesthetics, including the oral, glabellar, forehead and lateral canthal regions. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 657 ORALM 660 Rotations in Medical Disciplines (1-4, max. 24) Clinic, oriented to the hospital practice of oral medicine, deals with examination and nonsurgical therapy of hospital patients. The conditions treated include primary oral diseases, oral manifestations of systemic diseases, and oral defects resulting from medical treatment of serious systemic disease. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 660 ORALM 664 Dental Care of the Disabled II (*, max. 10) Practicum in chair/bedside delivery of dental care to different disabled populations. Includes rotations to institutions, long-term care facilities, and homebound service, using mobile equipment. Prerequisite: ORALM 564 and permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 664 ORALM 665 Clinical Oral Medicine (*, max. 33) Clinic involving the diagnostic evaluation of patients with difficult and unusual oral diseases. The student diagnoses and treats the patient. Types of therapy include medications and chemical agents, functional physical therapy, and counseling. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 665 ORALM 670 Clinical Oral Medicine Teaching (1-4, max. 16) Clinic designed to give the student experience and instruction in the teaching of clinical oral diagnosis. Treatment of emergency dental problems as well as routine and special diagnostic procedures is emphasized. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORALM 670 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022