Skip to main content Coronavirus COVID-19 Updates: uc.edu/publichealth × University Health Services About Providers & Pharmacists Office Locations and Hours Student Health Insurance Students - Note of Privacy Practice Contact Us Services Primary Care Clinical Laboratory Dermatology Travel Health Immunizations and Screenings Gender and Sexual Health X-Ray Service Request Medical Records Mental Health Immunization Overview Pharmacy Overview How to Get a Prescription Prescription Refills Appointments Appointments Emergencies Overview Mental Health Emergency Needlestick/Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure for Students COVID COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Update Symptoms Exposures Testing Quarantine and Isolation FAQ's Search Landing Pages / University Health Services / Employees / Overview Department ofUniversity Health Services Menu Home COVID COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Update Symptoms Exposures Testing Testing for Symptoms and Exposures Quarantine and Isolation FAQ's About Providers & Pharmacists Office Locations and Hours Student Health Insurance Students - Note of Privacy Practice Contact Us Pharmacy Overview How to Get a Prescription Prescription Refills ADHD/ADD Information Services Primary Care Clinical Laboratory Dermatology Travel Health Immunizations and Screenings Gender and Sexual Health X-Ray Service Request Medical Records Mental Health Immunization Overview Frequently Asked Questions Emergencies Overview Mental Health Emergency Needlestick/Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure for Students Appointments Appointments Parent Information What Can I Do To Help? Access My Student's Records Health and Safety Employees Overview Return to Work Work Related Injury Return to Campus Safety Protocol (COVID) Resources and Forms Immunization Forms Medical Forms Meningitis Information Meningococcal B Disease Health Resources Bloodborne Pathogen Claim Form Billing Contact UsUniversity Health Services Richard E. Lindner Center 2751 O'Varsity Way, 3rd Floor Cincinnati, OH 45221-0010 Mail Location: 0769 Phone: 513-556-2564 Fax: 513-556-1337 Occupational Health Services Update Effective April 1, 2021, employee health services will be provided exclusively at the UC Health (UCH) Employee Health and Wellness Clinic, 3200 Burnet Avenue. This merging of UHS employee occupational health services to this unified location will allow for standardization of services, improved efficiencies and increased availability of clinic staff. Additionally, the combined clinic will allow for enhanced opportunities for future growth and services to employees of both UC and UC Health. Services will include work-related injury consultations and treatments or referrals; occupational health surveillance physicals; required occupational health medical tests; exposure management; and required pre-employment screenings. The day-to-day clinic operations will be led by Kelley Crandell, corporate director, working in alignment with Victoria Wulsin, MD, professor in the Department of Family and Community Medicine, who will serve as medical director. Supervisors should refer employees with a work-related injury or other occupational health needs to the new clinic location beginning on April 1, 2021. Frequently Asked Questions: Where is the UC Health Employee and Wellness Clinic? The address is 3200 Burnet Avenue, South Entrance. What are the clinics hours? The UC Health Employee Health and Wellness Clinic is open 7:30 a.m. – 4 p.m. Monday through Friday What is the clinic phone number? 513-585-6600 Where should I park? You should park in the South Parking Garage at the South Entrance. Will my parking be validated? Yes Remember to report all COVID-19 exposures and symptoms on UC's COVIDCheck application. Members of the UC community are asked to use the app to complete a Daily Health Check, based on CDC guidelines, and self-report if diagnosed with COVID-19. UC's COVID Check app is free and easy to use. It can be downloaded through the Apple App Store and Google Play Store. A web-based REDCap survey is also available. The app is synched with the university’s secure Single-Sign On system. The University of Cincinnati takes individual privacy seriously. The app does not use GPS tracking. For more information, see the University's Public Health website. UC Health and UCP Self-Exposure & Symptoms Reporting (REDCap): Email: covid-redcap@uchealth.com Online: https://is.gd/UCHealthCOVID Note: UCP employees will no longer report to covidwatch@uc.edu. For assistance, please email UCH-Employee-Health@uchealth.com. Intranet Login Contact UsUniversity Health Services Richard E. Lindner Center 2751 O'Varsity Way, 3rd Floor Cincinnati, OH 45221-0010 Mail Location: 0769 Phone: 513-556-2564 Fax: 513-556-1337 University of Cincinnati College of Medicine CARE/Crawley Building, Suite E-870 3230 Eden Avenue Cincinnati, OH 45267 Phone: 513-558-7333 Copyright Information ©2019 University of Cincinnati | Notice of Emergency & Safety Information Notice of Non-Discrimination | Clery and HEOA Notice | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement