Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Research Home Research and Fellowships Dean's Research Council Dean's Research Council Strengthening the ability for faculty to conduct cutting-edge research is a top priority at Dedman College. The Dean’s Research Council provides competitively awarded seed funding for faculty research. This support helps our faculty to compete for larger grants and fellowships from outside SMU. For every $1 invested in the Dean’s Research Council grants, faculty win an average of $11 in outside funding. Strong research programs have a direct impact on the quality of educational experiences available to our students. 100% of donations to the Dean’s Research Council go toward faculty research. Learn more about the wide range of research currently underway at Dedman College in our research brochure. To join, make a gift online to the Dean’s Research Council. Recent DRC Winners Robert Harrod Associate Professor, Biological Sciences, Targeting a Key Factor that Drives the Vascularization of Human Cancers Bianca Lopez Assistant Professor of Medieval and Renaissance Studies The Balkan Plague-Bearers of Medieval Italy: The Creation of a Minority Culture Elizabeth Russ Associate Professor of Spanish, DePole Humanities Award, Cosmopolitan Insularity: Dominican Women Writing Nation and the World DRC Distinguished Award winners 2021 Greg Brownderville Elfi Kraka Fred Olness Steven Sekula 2020 Daniel Moss Pavel Nadolsky Fred Olness Monnie McGee Mark McCoy Bianca Lopez Robert Harrod Rita Economos 2019 Brian Zoltowski Elizabeth Russ 2018 Elfi Kraka Jill Kelly 2016 Jingbo Ye Peng Tao Karen Lupo Philippe Chuard 2015 Mark Chancey Alexander Lippert William Orr Greg Brownderville David Son 2014 Herve Tchumkam Nicolay Tsarevsky 2013 Sabri Ates Robert Kehoe 2012 Johannes Bauer 2011 Amy Pinkham Lisa Siraganian Yunkai Zhou Learn more and apply Dean's Research Council Launched in 2010 with a gift of $100,000 from Pierce Allman, ’54, the Dean's Research Council (DRC) is a membership organization that raises and awards seed funding to support promising research conducted by tenure-track Dedman College faculty. Groundbreaking research Our internationally recognized faculty members dedicate themselves to asking hard questions and pursuing creative ideas and practical solutions to make the world a better place to live and work. Previous Next pause play hide show Dean's Research Council Award Winner “The DRC grant I received in 2015 gave me the resources to start a multidisciplinary collaboration that continues to this very day.” David Y. Son, Professor of Chemistry Versatile 3D Printing with 'Click' Chemistry Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube