Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Apply to Lyle Lyle Home Apply to Lyle FAQ's FAQ's General Information What programs does the Lyle School of Engineering offer? The Lyle School offers over 27 different master and doctoral programs, which can be viewed on our Graduate Programs page. Can I talk with someone about the Lyle School of Engineering You can contact Sabrina Gonzalez if you are a domestic student and Lexie Reynolds if you are an international student. How do I find out about funding and/or scholarships? When a student receives admission to the Lyle School of Engineering it will be stated in the offer letter if they have been awarded funding (which is in the application portal). Financial assistance is available to students via teaching and research assistant ships. These are limited and highly competitive. If interested, students must contact departments and faculty directly to see if there are any open positions. How much is the cost of attendance? To view the most update information on tuition and fees you can visit the SMU Bursars Office website. How is the school dealing with the COVID Pandemic? You can learn more about the ways SMU is working hard to keep its students, faculty, and staff safe by visiting the SMU COVID Blog. Transcripts Do transcripts need to be official for the application review or can I send those after I've been admitted? For the application review process we accept unofficial transcripts. However, once admitted you must submit official transcripts with degree conferral. They can be brought to orientation or to our office Caruth Hall Suite 239 during your first semester. What transcripts do I need to submit? ALL post-secondary transcripts. Any and all after attending high school. If you transferred schools or attended community college we need them all on file. This is for university purposes. Do I need a transcript Evaluation? No you do not. We have in-house staff who complete this for your application and add it to your file. What does degree conferral mean regarding transcripts? Degree Conferral means that your graduation date has been granted on your transcript. Transcripts will show expected graduation dates until the conferred date is awarded. What happens if I don't submit Final Official Transcripts? An enrollment hold will be place on a students account after the first semester and will not be removed until transcripts are received. How can I send my transcripts? Transcripts can be sent digitally through transcript services and/or other universities. Or they may be mailed to SMU. Where do I send my transcripts? The Lyle School of Engineering does not house transcripts. So, if they are sent to a Lyle School address it will delay your application review process. Please send all transcripts to gradappmaterials@smu.edu or to Mailing Address: SMU Graduate Application Processing PO Box 750518 Dallas, TX 75275-0518 Application Where can I start my application? For Spring 2021 forward we are in a new application system "Engineering CAS". Click here to apply. What type of applicant am I? If you are seeking or required to have an F-1 or J-1 student visa, you’re considered an international applicant. If you are a U.S. citizen, permanent resident in the U.S., H1, or H4 visa holder, you are considered a domestic applicant and should use the domestic application. Any other visa holder or applicant should apply using the international student application. What are the application deadlines? Deadlines can be viewed here. Can I receive an application fee waiver? No. There are no waivers for the $75 application fee. It can be paid in the portal after you apply. We accept both credit and debit cards. What materials are needed for the application? You can view your programs specific requirements here. What materials need to be official for my application to be reviewed? Test scores need to be received by the university officially. This includes GRE scores and English proficiency test scores (i.e. TOEFL, IETLS, and Duolingo). Do I need letters of recommendation? Yes, if you are applying for a Ph.D. or D.E., three (3) letters of recommendation are required. Letters of recommendation are optional for MS and MA applicants. I don't have work experience what do I put on my resume/CV? If you have any research experience or have had an internship that would be something to add. What is a statement of purpose? It is a short one page document that tells us why you are interest in the program, why you are a good fit, and what you would like to do with the degree. I have submitted my application, how do I check the status? You will receive emails from us when your application moves into it's next steps. How long will it take to process my application and receive a decision? Once your application is submitted and we have all required materials the process typically takes 3-4 weeks. At the peak of review season it can take a bit longer. I have submitted my application but I want to add additional materials to my file. Please email your items with your first and last name and application number to gradappmaterials@smu.edu. Scores (GRE, TOEFL, etc.) I'm taking the GRE, what score do I need to make? Departmental Reviewers are looking at the Quantitative Score in 80% percentile or higher. This is roughly around a score of 163 at this current time. ETS clearly states that GRE percentiles are based on the mean of the number of test takers. For more information click here. Is there a waiver for the GRE? Some work experience is accepted for waiver. However, you will need to contact your intended academic department for a waiver request. Is there a Proof of English proficiency Waiver? An exemption is made only for those who can provide proof of study of at least two years or four consecutive semesters from either a US, Australian, New Zealand, or UK institution. You can have this requirement waiver by contacting Lexie Reynolds. What is the institution code for sending official test scores? The institution code for SMU is 6660. No department code is required. Can I submit unofficial scores for the review of my application? Test scores need to be received by the university officially. This includes GRE scores and English proficiency test scores (i.e. TOEFL, IETLS, and Duolingo). What tests satisfy the English Proficiency requirement? TOFEL - 80 IETLS - 6.5 Band Score Duolingo - 110 minimum Post-Decision If I am denied admission may I reapply? If you would like to know more about why you were denied admission, contact Sabrina Gonzalez (domestic) or Lexie Reynolds (international) for information on the appeal process and/or reapplying. I've been admitted, now what? You will need to accept your offer in your application portal. Is there a deadline to accept my offer? No there is no deadline to accept. However, for international students accepting your offer starts the I-20 process. Students must then accept in a timely manner to complete those next steps. Is there a deposit required to hold my place? No deposit required. When is orientation? Orientation is held a week before classes begin. You will receive further information via email from the Lyle Graduate Office. I don't know my SMU ID or email address? These are tasks that are completed by a different office on campus. Please reach out to SMU OIT. Who is my advisor? Your advisor information should be in your offer letter. If not please contact Sabrina Gonzalez (domestic) or Lexie Reynolds (international). What is full-time enrollment at the graduate level? 9 credit hours. Additional International Info I want conditional admission so I can just attend the EIP program. What is the process? Conditional Admission is an offer of Admission to the Lyle School of Engineering with terms. This offer is ONLY given to applications who have submitted official scores, been reviewed by the intended academic department, and had a decision made on their application file. How do I get my I-20? After accepting your offer a new check-list will appear in your portal (sometimes you need to log back in) this check-list will include the items to submit for review before the I-20 can be requested. I have submitted all items for the I-20 but I haven't received any information. There could be two reason for this: You have not set up your E-Ship Global Account. You have not looked in your SMU email account for information from the International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) Office. I have questions about changing my Visa status. Please contact ISSS at isss@smu.edu. When do I need to submit the certificate of finance? After you have been awarded admission. This is one of the checklist items needed for the I-20. How much do I need to show on my certificate of finance? The minimum that must be shown is $48,774. I've been awarded funding, do I still need to show the minimum on the certificate of finance? No, you may upload your offer letter showing the funding and the minimum will be adjusted. I would like to get visas for my dependents, who do I go to about that? If you are seeking dependent visas for your spouse/minor children, you will need to provide additional documentation of financial support in the amount of $8,000 for your first dependent and $4,000 for each additional dependent. Can I take online classes? International students are permitted to enroll in one online course or a 3-credit hour course that counts towards the student’s full-time enrollment requirement. In other words, graduate students will need to be enrolled in at least 6 credit hours of in-person courses. I'd like more information on CPT. You can visit the ISSS website for CPT information. Who do I contact during the admissions process if I need some assistance? You can contact Lexie Reynolds at alreynolds@smu.edu. Apply to Lyle Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus