Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Students across the country are talking about the Red Zone. Click on the content below to learn what it is, how it occurs, and what you can do about it. TRIGGER WARNING: This resource contains information about sexual violence, prevalence rates, and tactics used to perpetrate harm. What is the "red zone"? The period of time in the first four months of college - when more than half of sexual assaults on college campuses occur, and first-year students are especially vulnerable. 1 1Matthew Kimble PhD, Andrada D. Neacsiu BA, William F. Flack PhD & Jessica Horner BA (2008) Risk of Unwanted Sex for College Women: Evidence for a Red Zone, Journal of American College Health, 57:3, 331-338, DOI: 10.3200/JACH.57.3.331-338. Retrieved from: https://www.rainn.org/statistics/campus-sexual-violence Who is impacted? Research at Brown suggests that people who perpetrate harm are more likely to target cisgender women , trans, genderqueer, and nonbinary students. While a person of any identity can cause or experience harm, most of the people who perpetrate sexual violence are cisgender men and is usually someone the survivor knows. This is due to gendered expectations (like hyper masculinity) that affect everyone, including men, and we are all responsible for interrupting them, as well as other systems of violence and oppression, whenever possible.2 2Executive Summary: 2019 AAU Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Sexual Misconduct for Brown University. Retrieved from: https://www.brown.edu/web/documents/climatesurvey-2019/Brown_University_... The Myth of Stranger Danger 8 out of 10 incidents of sexual violence are committed by someone the person knows, not by a stranger.3 3Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics, National Crime Victimization Survey, 2010-2016 (2017). Sexual Violence IS preventable. We can prevent violence by respecting consent at all times and modeling respectful behaviors. We can also prevent harm by intervening, not only in moments of high risk, but in everyday moments of stereotypes that can lead to more explicit violence. Use one of the 5 D's below to intervene and keep our communities safe. DISTRACT: Take an indirect approach. Draw attention to something else. Example: “Hey, isn’t that the______________?” DIRECT*: Confront the situation. Be firm, clear, and concise. Example: “They’ve made it clear they’re uncomfortable. Please leave them alone.” DELEGATE: Seek help from another person. Example: “I saw someone harassing _____. Can you help? DOCUMENT**: Document the incident. Keep a safe distance, record date and time, who is present, film or screenshot incident and/or landmarks.** DELAY*: Check in with the person being harmed later. Use the support skills we will discuss in our next section on supporting survivors. * If It’s safe to do so. ** Always ask the person who was harmed what they want you to do with any documentation. Never share it without their consent. CONSIDER YOUR SAFETY WHEN INTERVENING. CHOOSE THE STRATEGY THAT IS SAFEST FOR THAT MOMENT. How can we hold our friends accountable? We want safer communities, but it can be hard to know when to act or what to say to our friends, roommates, group members, teammates, etc when we notice them engaging in harmful behaviors. Read on for important tips. First, it can be helpful to know that sexual violence is not always premeditated. People may take advantage of opportunities that arise in the environment, so it is important to interrupt situations that create vulnerability on a regular basis to create safer spaces. There are harmful social norms-about power, gender, desirability, entitlement- that contribute to a lack of learning about consent and how to treat others. THIS IS NOT AN EXCUSE for violent behavior and does not lessen the impact on the person who was harmed. It does provide an opportunity for us, for you, to talk to others about changing their behavior, before harm happens. What are the red flags? Read below to learn some of the red flags for concerning behavior and then keep reading for strategies on how to talk about it. Targeting vulnerable people: Seeking out isolated students who haven't formed a social group yet, younger students, those who are unfamiliar with the campus and its resources, who may be experiencing party or hookup culture for the first time, students who experience oppression of all kinds. Using deception and entitlement: Lying, misrepresenting, manipulating, demanding secrecy, and/or expressing entitlement to sex. This can occur within an ongoing relationship, not in just one interaction, such as when people are communicating on dating apps, texting, are acquaintances, friends, or in romantic relationships. This behavior is not always present at the beginning and can escalate over time. Using inappropriate power dynamics: Seeking situations or relationships where they have more power due to age, seniority, experience, connections, wealth, access to desired spaces, etc. and using this to gain a person's trust, fill a need, isolate them from their supports, or other abuses of power. Targeting the use of drugs/alcohol: Pushing a person to become incapacitated or targeting someone who is already incapacitated, because they are less likely to resist any force or coercion. Someone may also use drugs or alcohol themselves to lower their own inhibitions, making it easier for them to engage in aggressive acts of harm. Using tactics to maintain control: Trying to make someone feel guilty, fearful, or ashamed to get what they want. Ex. saying they can’t sleep until they get what they want, or threatening to share sensitive pictures. Non-consensual behavior and boundary violations: Someone disregards consent or disrespects boundaries, even in non-sexual situations. Remember, everyday moments create the “foundation” for more severe incidents. You can help create less social acceptance of harmful norms by talking to people about any non-consensual behavior they are doing. How can we talk to people about changing their behavior? Since this kind of direct intervention can be really difficult, here are six strategies to share with you for talking to someone about their actions in an effective way. ‘Bring it home’: Personalizing the issues and its effects so that it’s easier for the other parties to understand and recognize as harmful; Prevents someone from distancing themselves from the impact of their actions or dehumanizing others. EXAMPLES: “I hope no one ever talks about you like that.” “What if someone treated your best friend that way?” I-statements: Focusing on feelings rather than placing blame or criticizing others; state your own feelings name the behavior, state ways the other parties can respond; EXAMPLES: “ I feel _____ when you _______. Please don’t do that any more.” “It makes me uncomfortable when you______________.” Humor: Only do this if you feel comfortable with it. Humor can cut tension in a rough situation, but it is important not to trivialize the bad behavior or mock your own reaction to it. Call IN vs. call out: Use your position as a community member to hold them accountable and ask the hard questions. Show that you care and want them to change or want the issue to change. Emphasize that you come from a good place and that you hope they’ll listen to you; EXAMPLE: “Hey, as your friend, I’ve got to tell you that your actions last night were not representative of this community. How can you make things right?” Make a plan: Identify concerning behaviors, communicate clear expectations about what needs to change, and figure out what steps can be taken to get there; EXAMPLE: “These are examples of what I mean about being disrespectful (give specific examples). In the future, what I need from you is ________. Let’s plan to check in every two weeks and talk about how it’s going.” Collaborate when you can: Work with the person or community to plan for change. Work with someone’s values to motivate action. Collaboration takes the burden off of individuals to address harm in our communities. Groups of people tend to have more leverage. It is important to think about who in a community might have more leverage from the individual causing harm. Since each situation is different, and every one of us is different, we may choose to use some strategies over others. Consider your safety, center the agency of the person who was harmed, and decide the strategy (or multiple strategies) that feels right for you. Supporting a person who has been harmed We want to prevent harm from happening AND it is important for us to know how to support those who have been hurt. Supporting people who have experienced sexual, relationship, or gender-based violence is also a crucial part of harm prevention. Survivors are most likely to tell a peer first (before a professional) and how a support person responds can have a significant impact on someone’s healing process. Click this link to learn how to support someone who has been harmed. If you or someone you know has been harmed and needs help click here to learn about your support options or call 401-863-6000 for immediate 24/7 confidential crisis response. So what are green flags? Green flags are the signs of healthy & fulfilling ways to relate to others. Treating each other well is a crucial part of how we can have fulfilling experiences, model healthy behavior, and keep each other safe. Examples include: Aligning words and behaviors Willing to admit and apologize when wrong Encouraging connections with others Speaking with respect Engages with empathy Communicating clearly and honestly Setting, honoring and respecting boundaries Acting in ways that help people feel safe, heard, and appreciated Showing up authentically and with vulnerability Intentional in their actions, especially about resolving conflict Practicing self-care Let's create communities full of green flags at Brown. Getting involved For more information about how you can get involved in preventing sexual, relationship, and gender-based harm at Brown, click here or click the Get Involved tab at the bottom of this page. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook