Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Anthropology 314 Denny Hall 206-543-5240 Website Faculty Website anthinfo@uw.edu The Department of Anthropology is committed to describing, interpreting, and explaining the historical, biological, and cultural diversity of the human species. The department offers three distinct academic programs: archaeology, biocultural anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology. Additional emphases include medical anthropology and global health, archaeological sciences, and anthropology of globalization. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Anthropology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Anthropology of Globalization Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Indigenous Archaeology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health Program of Study: Minor: Anthropology Minor in Anthropology Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Archaeology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Anthropology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeological Heritage) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology) Undergraduate Programs Anthropology 310 Denny Hall 206-543-7772 anthinfo@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Anthropology Program Overview Anthropology undergraduates earn either a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Anthropology. The difference between the two degrees lies in how they are structured. If you want a broad overview of Anthropology as a discipline or if you want to focus on the more humanistic side of Anthropology, the BA is for you. If you want to focus on a particular area within the more scientific side of Anthropology, you should pursue the BS. Both degrees are appropriate for a myriad of post-baccalaureate opportunities including graduate and professional school training in the health sciences (e.g. medical school, public health, physical therapy), law, social justice advocacy, and (of course!) anthropology. Anthropology is mainly about two things: Understanding and engagement. It seeks to make sense of this world we share and to uncover new ways to transform the world and ourselves. It takes on issues of social justice, from preserving the environment to preserving languages and culture. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Anthropology of Globalization Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Indigenous Archaeology Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: any 200-level ARCHY course; BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; and one from CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology Credential Overview The undergraduate program leads to the Bachelor of Arts degree. After completing required courses within the anthropology core, students can elect to focus on one area or take courses in different areas within the major, including archaeology, biocultural anthropology and sociocultural anthropology. Additionally, students may complete an undergraduate option in medical anthropology and global health, archaeological sciences, anthropology of globalization, or human evolutionary biology. Completion Requirements 55 credits Core courses (20 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; any 200-level ARCHY course; and one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 35 additional ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits distributed across the subfields or concentrated as suits the interests of the student. Minimum 20 of these credits in upper-division (300- or 400-level) courses. One 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course, or AIS 102 may be counted toward the major, but is not required. The following AIS courses may apply toward this requirement: AIS 202, AIS 203, AIS 209, AIS 210, AIS 311, AIS 330, AIS 335, AIS 340, AIS 425, AIS 443, AIS 480. No limit on the number of AIS courses that may apply to this requirement. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors students) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major. Additional major requirements: Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 15 upper-division credits in anthropology completed through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Anthropology of Globalization Credential Overview The Anthropology of Globalization option prepares students for a diverse range of career, including those in business, human rights and social justice, immigration rights, and non-governmental organization work, as well as for further study in anthropology, law, politics, economics, philosophy, and critical thought. Anthropology is increasingly valued and utilized in the business world. Courses in archaeology, sociocultural anthropology and biocultural anthropology will introduce students to the study of cross-border exchange of artifacts and objects, the circulation of knowledge, beliefs, and technologies, migration movements, transnational legislation, and genes, people and disease. By thinking through these questions against a background of historical and regional differences, students will enhance their understanding of emerging forms of circulation. Completion Requirements 55 credits Core courses (20 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; any 200-level ARCHY course; and one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 35 additional ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits distributed across the subfields or concentrated as suits the interests of the student. Minimum 20 of these credits in upper-division (300- or 400-level) courses. One 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course, or AIS 102 may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Option courses: Requirements for the general anthropology major, as shown above, to include 20 credits from courses in ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A approved for the Anthropology of Globalization option. A list of approved courses is available on the department website. The following AIS courses may apply toward this requirement: AIS 202, AIS 203, AIS 209, AIS 210, AIS 311, AIS 330, AIS 335, AIS 340, AIS 425, AIS 443, AIS 480. No limit on the number of AIS courses that may apply to this requirement. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors students) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major. Additional major requirements: Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 15 upper-division credits in anthropology completed through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences Credential Overview The Archaeological Sciences option is recommended to students who are interested in an in-depth study of archaeological methods and theories. More specifically, it introduces students to the rigorous study of archaeological data. The required courses in this option will equip students with specialized laboratory, analytical, and field skills, and will provide them with the historical context needed for understanding contemporary issues in archaeological sciences. Completion Requirements 55 credits Core courses (20 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; any 200-level ARCHY course; and one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 35 additional ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits distributed across the subfields or concentrated as suits the interests of the student. Minimum 20 of these credits in upper-division (300- or 400-level) courses. One 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course, or AIS 102 may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Option courses: Requirements for the general anthropology major, as shown above, to include at least 15 credits from courses approved for the Archaeological Sciences core, and at least 15 credits from courses approved for the ASc elective lists. Lists of approved courses are available on the department website. The following AIS courses may apply toward this requirement: AIS 202, AIS 203, AIS 209, AIS 210, AIS 311, AIS 330, AIS 335, AIS 340, AIS 425, AIS 443, AIS 480. No limit on the number of AIS courses that may apply to this requirement. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors students) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major. Additional major requirements: Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 15 upper-division credits in anthropology completed through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology Credential Overview To understand our species, human evolutionary biologists begin with a simple premise: that our past informs the present -- that humans, in their rich array of diversity, are the product of millions of years of evolution. Science has uncovered an evolutionary history that shaped humans to adapt and thrive in the environments of our Paleolithic ancestors. Yet recent changes in our society, our lifestyles, and our environment have occurred at an unprecedented rate -- one that may have outpaced evolution. How does this influence modern human biology? Could some of the most pressing human health issues -- ailments such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancers -- arise from living in a world that is far different from that of our ancestors? The Human Evolutionary Biology Option allow students to explore these questions. The liberal arts education offered through anthropology is recognized as an ideal course of preparation for careers in health-related fields. Completion Requirements 55 credits Core courses (20 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; any 200-level ARCHY course; and one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 35 additional ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits distributed across the subfields or concentrated as suits the interests of the student. Minimum 20 of these credits in upper-division (300- or 400-level) courses. One 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course, or AIS 102 may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Option courses: Requirements for the general anthropology major, as shown above, to include BIO A 351 or BIO A 355; either BIO A 101 or BIO A 348; and 15 credits from courses approved for the Human Evolutionary Biology option. A list of approved courses is available on the department website. The following AIS courses may apply toward this requirement: AIS 202, AIS 203, AIS 209, AIS 210, AIS 311, AIS 330, AIS 335, AIS 340, AIS 425, AIS 443, AIS 480. No limit on the number of AIS courses that may apply to this requirement. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors students) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major. Additional major requirements: Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 15 upper-division credits in anthropology completed through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Indigenous Archaeology Credential Overview Students pursuing the option in Indigenous Archaeology will complete courses in both Anthropology and American Indian Studies. This collaborative approach will prepare students to work alongside tribal communities as well as with cultural resource management firms to ensure the protection and preservation of sites integral to tribal heritage. The Indigenous Archaeology option is recommended to students who are interested in an in-depth study of indigenous archaeological perspectives on the evaluation and protection of cultural heritage sites. The required courses in this option will provide students with the historical context needed for understanding contemporary issues in indigenous archaeology, and equip students with specialized analytical, laboratory and field skills. Completion Requirements 55 credits Core courses (20 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; any 200-level ARCHY course; and one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 35 additional ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits distributed across the subfields or concentrated as suits the interests of the student. Minimum 20 of these credits in upper-division (300- or 400-level) courses. One 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course, or AIS 102 may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Option courses: Requirements for the general anthropology major, as shown above, to include AIS 102, three courses from the approved Indigenous Archaeology (IA) core list, and 15 credits from courses approved for the IA elective list. Lists of approved courses are available on the department website. The following AIS courses may apply toward this requirement: AIS 202, AIS 203, AIS 209, AIS 210, AIS 311, AIS 330, AIS 335, AIS 340, AIS 425, AIS 443, AIS 480. No limit on the number of AIS courses that may apply to this requirement. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors students) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major. Additional major requirements: Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 15 upper-division credits in anthropology completed through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health Credential Overview Many students who complete the option in Medical Anthropology and Global Health plan to pursue post-graduate training and careers in anthropology and health-related fields such as public health, epidemiology, nursing, medicine, and global health. The liberal arts education offered through anthropology is recognized as an ideal course of preparation for these fields. Completion Requirements 55 credits: Core courses (20 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; any 200-level ARCHY course; and one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 35 additional ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits distributed across the subfields or concentrated as suits the interests of the student. Minimum 20 of these credits in upper-division (300- or 400-level) courses. One 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course, or AIS 102 may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Option courses: Requirements for the general anthropology major, as shown above, to include either ANTH 215 or ANTH 302 and 15 additional credits from ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A courses approved for the Medical Anthropology and Global Health option. A list of approved courses is available on the department website. The following AIS courses may apply toward this requirement: AIS 202, AIS 203, AIS 209, AIS 210, AIS 311, AIS 330, AIS 335, AIS 340, AIS 425, AIS 443, AIS 480. No limit on the number of AIS courses that may apply to this requirement. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors students) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major. Additional major requirements: Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 15 upper-division credits in anthropology completed through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences Credential Overview The Archaeological Sciences option is recommended to students who are interested in an in-depth study of archaeological methods and theories. More specifically, it introduces students to the rigorous study of archaeological data. The required courses in this option will equip students with specialized laboratory, analytical, and field skills, and will provide them with the historical context needed for understanding contemporary issues in archaeological sciences. Completion Requirements 75 credits Core Courses (15 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ARCHY course; one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 Option Courses (50 credits): Any 200-level ANTH course; minimum 15 credits from ASc core course list; minimum 15 credits from approved ASc elective course list; minimum 15 additional credits in ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A; see department website for approved courses Additional credits from Department of Anthropology courses: (10 credits) Additional Requirements Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 40 credits in upper-division (300-400 level) courses; one 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major Minimum 35 upper-division credits in Department of Anthropology courses completed through the UW Minimum 50 credits of Natural World (NW) courses in Department of Anthropology courses Minimum 55 ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology Credential Overview Human evolutionary biologists begin with a simple premise: that our past informs the present — that humans, in their rich array of diversity, are the product of millions of years of evolution. Could some of the most pressing human health issues, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancers, arise from living in a world that is far different from that of our ancestors? The Human Evolutionary Biology Option allows students to explore this and many other related questions. Completion Requirements 75 credits Core Courses (15 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ARCHY course; one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 Option Courses (50 credits): any 200-level ANTH course; BIO A 351 or BIO A 355; BIO A 101 or BIO A 348; minimum 35 credits from approved HEB course list; see department website for approved courses Additional credits from Department of Anthropology courses: (10 credits) Additional Requirements Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 40 credits in upper-division (300-400 level) courses; one 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major Minimum 35 upper-division credits in Department of Anthropology courses completed through the UW Minimum 50 credits of Natural World (NW) courses in Department of Anthropology courses Minimum 55 ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health Credential Overview Many students who complete the option in Medical Anthropology and Global Health plan to pursue post-graduate training and careers in anthropology and health-related fields such as public health, epidemiology, nursing, medicine, and global health. The liberal arts education offered through anthropology is recognized as an ideal course of preparation for these fields. Completion Requirements 75 credits Core Courses (15 credits): BIO A 201; any 200-level ARCHY course; one from the following: CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495 Option Courses (50 credits): ANTH 215; minimum 45 credits from courses approved for the MAGH list; see department website for approved courses. Additional credits from Department of Anthropology courses: (10 credits) Additional Requirements Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the major Minimum 40 credits in upper-division (300-400 level) courses; one 100-level ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A course may be counted toward the major, but is not required. Maximum 12 credits (18 credits for departmental Honors) from ANTH 499, ARCHY 499, and BIO A 499 combined may be counted toward the major Minimum 35 upper-division credits in Department of Anthropology courses completed through the UW Minimum 50 credits of Natural World (NW) courses in Department of Anthropology courses Minimum 55 ANTH, ARCHY, and BIO A credits Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Anthropology Program Overview The undergraduate program leads to the Bachelor of Arts degree. After completing required courses within the anthropology core, students can elect to focus on one area or take courses in different areas within the major, including archaeology, biocultural anthropology and sociocultural anthropology. Additionally, students may complete an undergraduate option in medical anthropology and global health, archaeological sciences, anthropology of globalization, or human evolutionary biology. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Anthropology Minor in Anthropology Credential Overview The anthropology minor focuses on examining the cultural and biological diversity humans and their material remains . Areas of interest can include the study of the relationship between humans and their environment, the archaeological record, language and culture, human evolution, and cultural modes of being as these differ in time and space. By studying anthropology, students begin to understand better how to find ways to live and work together in today's world, respecting cultural diversity while building upon common human values. Completion Requirements 30 credits At least 15 credits at upper-division level from courses with the following prefixes: ANTH, ARCHY, BIO A. (Certain AIS courses may apply toward this requirement. See departmental adviser for list.) Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses counted toward the minor Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The study of anthropology develops skills in critical thinking, research, and writing, as well as technical skills specific to the different subfields (ethnographic field techniques, interpretation of data, statistical analysis, archaeological methods of data collection and interpretation). An undergraduate degree prepares students for many positions that involve working with people, as well as for academic studies in a variety of fields. Careers in anthropology can be developed through employment with government agencies, museums, teaching and research, private consulting firms, and nongovernmental organizations. Instructional and Research Facilities: Undergraduate students have access to the following facilities for classroom training in laboratory methods and for research experiences subject to faculty approval and supervision: the Burke Museum (ethnological, archaeological, natural history, and archival collection), Quaternary Research Center, Biodemography Laboratory, Luminescence Dating Laboratory, Electron Microscope Laboratory Cooperative, Geoarchaeology Laboratory, Digital Imaging and Microscopy Laboratory, Geographical Information System (GIS) Computer Laboratory, Primate Evolutionary Biomechanics Laboratory. In addition, the department has a writing center offering undergraduate writing support for anthropology classes. Honors Options available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: The Department of Anthropology supports students who undertake community-based internships under faculty supervision. Department Scholarships: The Brett E Baldwin Scholarship, for approximately $1,000, is awarded to an outstanding graduate or undergraduate majoring in anthropology. The Wienker Prize for Best Undergraduate Essay. Four awards are given each year, one in each sub-discipline for the best essay in an undergraduate anthropology class, and one for the best senior honors thesis. Student Organizations/Associations: The Anthropology Club is run by and for students in the department. Graduate Programs Anthropology 206-685-1562 gradanth@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Archaeology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology) Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for current requirements. Completion Requirements All options in this program require 90 total credits Required Coursework (Credit total varies depending on option): Completion of MA requirements in Archaeology, Biological, or Sociocultural option (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Dissertation (Minimum 27 credits) ANTH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Electives (To reach total 90 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW. Exams, Teaching, and Research requirements (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements Required Coursework (18 credits): 18 graded credits in ANTH, ARCHY or BIO A at the 400- and/or 500-level. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Archaeology) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for current requirements. Completion Requirements All options in this program require 90 total credits Required Coursework (Credit total varies depending on option): Completion of MA requirements in Archaeology, Biological, or Sociocultural option (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Dissertation (Minimum 27 credits) ANTH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Electives (To reach total 90 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW. Exams, Teaching, and Research requirements (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements Required Courses (8 credits): ARCHY 510, ARCHY 599 Required Theory and Methods (15 credits): List of courses maintained by department. Required Area Courses (5 credits): List of courses maintained by department. Required Social Impacts in Archaeology (5 credits): List of courses maintained by department. Additional Requirements: Comprehensive written examination, language translation, teaching requirement, general examination, dissertation colloquium, dissertation field research, and dissertation. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for current requirements. Completion Requirements All options in this program require 90 total credits Required Coursework (Credit total varies depending on option): Completion of MA requirements in Archaeology, Biological, or Sociocultural option (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Dissertation (Minimum 27 credits) ANTH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Electives (To reach total 90 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW. Exams, Teaching, and Research requirements (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements: Core: Five Theory and Methods Courses (15 - 25 credits), must include at least one course in each of the following: Human Biology (minimum 3 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Evolution (E) (minimum 3 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Paleoanthropology (minimum 3 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Primatology (minimum 3 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Additional Theory and Methods Course (minimum 3 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Statistical sequence - one from below or approved by faculty (minimum 8 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Additional Course Requirement: BIO A 525 Additional Requirements: Comprehensive written examination, teaching requirement, general examination, dissertation colloquium, dissertation research, and dissertation. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for current requirements. Completion Requirements All options in this program require 90 total credits Required Coursework (Credit total varies depending on option): Completion of MA requirements in Archaeology, Biological, or Sociocultural option (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Dissertation (Minimum 27 credits) ANTH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Electives (To reach total 90 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW. Exams, Teaching, and Research requirements (see additional requirements for option-specific information) Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements: Core Requirements (25 credits): ANTH 550, ANTH 551, ANTH 565, ANTH 566, ANTH 567 4 additional ANTH courses at the 400/500 level with different members of the sociocultural anthropology faculty (12 credits) Back to Top Additional Information Financial Aid: One multi-year recruitment fellowship is awarded to an outstanding entering student. A limited number of teaching and research assistantships and hourly positions are offered primarily to advanced students. Applicants should apply for Foreign Language Area Studies Fellowships if qualified. Applicants are encouraged to seek funding from outside sources. Work-study positions may also be available for eligible graduate students. Department Scholarships Student Training in Anthropological Research Tools and Skills (STARTS), in support of graduate students conducting pre-dissertation pilot research. The Brett E. Baldwin Scholarship, for approximately $1,000, awarded to an outstanding graduate or undergraduate majoring in anthropology. Evan David James Fellowship, for approximately $5,000, awarded to an outstanding graduate student conducting research in any time period in the PNW. Ronald Leroy Olson Fellowship, for one quarter of funding (tuition and a stipend), for UW graduate students in the field of anthropology. Whenever possible, such students are to be “members of a Native American or Native Alaskan Tribe,” ideally from Washington, Alaska, or British Colombia. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Anthropology) Program Overview The department recognizes three principal subfields of anthropology: archaeology, biological anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology (including linguistic anthropology). Graduate students are admitted to, and specialize in, their chosen subfields from the beginning of their graduate studies. The M.A in archaeological heritage is the only master's degree available for admission. All other M.A. degrees in the department are only available to students enrolled in the Ph.D. program in Anthropology. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Arts (Anthropology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeological Heritage) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology) Master Of Arts (Anthropology) Admission Requirements Admissions not available to this degree. It is only available to students enrolled in the Doctor of Philosophy (Anthropology) program. Completion Requirements Required Credits (18 credits): At least 18 graded credits in ANTH, ARCHY, or BIO A at the 400 or 500-level. Elective Courses (18 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW Back to Top Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeological Heritage) Credential Overview The University of Washington Master of Arts Program in Archaeological Heritage is designed to provide graduate training and credentials to qualify students for careers in Cultural Resource Management (CRM) in the US, as well as archaeological heritage globally. These career areas employ the majority of archaeologists in the US and beyond. Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for current requirements. Completion Requirements 36 credits Coursework (Minimum 17 credits): ARCHY 500-level coursework identified by student and advisor. Course list maintained by the program. Field School (Minimum 5 credits): Course list maintained by the program. Internship (Minimum 5 credits): ARCHY 601 Thesis Project (Minimum 9 credits): ARCHY 710 Back to Top Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeology) Admission Requirements Admissions not available to this degree. It is only available to students enrolled in the Doctor of Philosophy (Anthropology) program. Completion Requirements 36 total credits Required Courses (8 credits): ARCHY 510 and ARCHY 599 Required Theory and Methods (15 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Required Area Courses (5 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Required Social Impacts in Archaeology (5 credits): Course list maintained internally by the program. Electives (3 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW. Comprehensive written examination. Back to Top Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology) Admission Requirements Admissions not available to this degree. It is only available to students enrolled in the Doctor of Philosophy (Anthropology) program. Completion Requirements 36 total credits Human Biology (minimum 3 credits): See departmental list Evolution (minimum 3 credits): See departmental list Paleoanthropology (minimum 3 credits): See departmental list Primatology (minimum 3 credits): See departmental list Additional Theory and Methods (minimum 3 credits): See departmental list Statistical sequence (minimum 8 credits): See departmental list Elective Courses (3-13 credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW. A non-thesis MA degree is earned once all core courses have been completed and after receiving a passing grade on the written comprehensive exam. Back to Top Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology) Admission Requirements Admissions not available to this degree. It is only available to students enrolled in the Doctor of Philosophy (Anthropology) program. Completion Requirements 37-46 total credits Core Requirements (25 credits): ANTH 550, ANTH 551, ANTH 565, ANTH 566, ANTH 567 4 additional ANTH courses at the 400/500 level with different members of the sociocultural anthropology faculty (12 credits) Thesis (optional): ANTH 600/700 (9 credits) Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA