Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact A Creative Space for You Our design studios and support facilities provide opportunities to express your creativity. Department of Architecture Gallery Visit the Department of Architecture Gallery in Jones Hall to see examples of design studio and other student work. Driven by Doing Our community engagement projects enhance the quality of life in the Memphis region. Design your future Explore our Architecture and Interior Architecture Programs PreviousNext Take Action Resources News + Events Architecture Gallery Accreditation Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Nationally Ranked # 2 Design Intelligence Most Hired from Architecture Schools View All Rankings Home Department of Architecture Welcome. Thank you for your interest in the Department of Architecture. We believe students are our most important asset. This is reflected in the close working relationship between faculty and students in the design studios and professional/technical courses. In the design studio, students quickly find the value in peer critiques and comments. Whether in a formal setting or an informal late night conversation, beginning students and more advanced students learn from each other and build upon their experiences to enhance their success in the studio. Our "Culture of Engagement" offers students the opportunity to work with community partners and faculty and students in other academic programs on real, hands-on projects to enhance the quality of life for residents within the region and beyond. Every graduate design studio and every undergraduate studio from second through fourth year has at least one project per semester with a community partner. Making a decision on your education and your profession is difficult. It is our desire at the University of Memphis that each student entering any of our degree programs be well informed. Towards this, if we may be of assistance as you plan your academic and professional future, please let us know. Sincerely, The Department of Architecture Faculty Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/3/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.