COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Human Resource Management, Master's Master'sHuman Resource Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Department of Management The Master of Human Resource Management (MHRM) online program addresses the need for skilled professionals who are well versed in the field’s current theories and best practices. Coursework covers key human areas such as employee relations, staffing, training, legal environment and rewards. The program is targeted at practicing HR professionals wishing to advance their careers as well as managers with HR responsibilities. Learn how human resource management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the MHRM program is granted to applicants who show high promise of success in postgraduate business study. Previous academic training in business is not required for program admission. For admission into the MHRM program, you must: Possess an undergraduate degree Have a minimum 2.75 GPA (out of 4.00) in the last 60 credit hours of undergraduate coursework and in all graduate courses. Students with a lower GPA may apply with GRE or GMAT scores for consideration of probationary admission. Submit a statement of interest (500 words maximum) Meet the minimum TOEFL and IELTS requirements set by the Graduate School for students with English as a second language Applicants needing F1 visas must also provide documentation of financial support. The application deadline is May 1 for the fall semester and Oct. 1 for the spring semester. Admission requirements Curriculum The program consists of 30 credit hours with 24 credit hours comprising eight core courses and six credit hours of electives. The degree may also be earned by completing two graduate online certificates: Certificate in Human Resource Management Skills and Certificate in Human Resource Management Decision Making. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in human resource management from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills needed for a variety of high-paying human-resource careers in settings such as: Local, national and international companies Professional, scientific and technical services Manufacturing and government Health care and social assistance Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Human Resource Management Decision Making (Graduate Certificate) Human Resource Management Skills (Graduate Certificate) Business Administration - Human Resource Management (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©