Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Division of Campus Life Home About Us Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Staff Initiatives News & Events Site Navigation Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values Senior Team Executive Group Organizational Chart Office of the VP for Campus Life Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board CLSAB 20-21 Membership CLSAB 21-22 Membership Disability Justice Student Initiative Disability History at Brown Timeline JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Space Programming Housing Selection FAQs Housing Application Remote Access to Campus Resources Campus Life Resources Campus Life offers a variety of resources to support students. These services are available in in-person and remote capacities. We encourage you to take advantage of all the University has to offer by engaging with our resources. If you have questions about offerings or are seeking a resource not featured online, please reach out directly to our relevant offices for assistance using the contact information provided below. The Administrator On Call (AOC) The Administrator On Call system (401-863-3322) is available to students 24/7 to seek assistance in emergency situations and to answer general inquiries after business hours. An AOC provides students with resources and referrals to make the most of all the University offerings that can assist with their specific situation. These resources are available to students both in-person and virtually. To answer student questions, the AOC consults with colleagues as needed and gathers information for additional follow-up during business hours. The AOC system is available 24-hours a day, 365 days a year, and covered by staff in several offices in the Division of Campus Life. Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) The Brown Center for Students of Color serves as a gathering space for communities of color on campus by hosting events and programs that build and affirm community by centering our ways of knowing and being. The professional staff at the BCSC are available to provide in-person and remote assistance to all students of color at the University. We encourage you to review the most up-to-date welcome message on our BCSC Website Homepage, which explains our regular operating hours, after-hours card access (for students groups and for the general public), what resources are available and who can access them, and how to set up an in-person or virtual meeting with any member of the BCSC team. We also encourage you to subscribe to the BCSC newsletter and stay updated on BCSC news and announcements. Community Dialogue Project The Community Dialogue Project (CDP) supports Brown students and staff in cultivating a meaningful and intentional community, grounded in empathy and self and collective care. CDP promotes community building, healing and transformation through cohort experiences, discussion spaces, and facilitated dialogue. Our professional staff and student staff are available for in-person or remote consultations for students dealing with conflict in their community or looking to incorporate dialogue as a mechanism for community building. Our workshops and group facilitation can be held in-person or on Zoom depending on the preference of the students involved. Our cohort programs are primarily in-person but with the option of hybrid engagement when the need arises. At present, our trainings are being held in-person but can be held virtually if necessary. Our staff can be reached at [email protected]. The Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life The mission of every chaplain is to make available pastoral care and advice for students, staff, faculty, and alumni, and to increase religious literacy within the Brown community. This can happen through individual counsel, interventions in emergencies (both academic and personal), programming on critical spiritual themes or concerns, and presiding at key life rituals. The latter includes everything from weekly services to weddings/unions, baptism/blessing of children, and memorial or funeral rites. The composite of the chaplains' work in this area includes care for many hundreds of community members. The Chaplains are available in-person and remotely during office hours, or by appointment, and may be reached via email or phone. Chaplains’ Office Hours: Rev. Janet Cooper Nelson, Chaplain of the University | Wednesdays, 1:30 - 4:30 PM Imam Amir A. Toft, Associate Chaplain of the University for the Muslim Community | Wednesdays, 11 AM - 1 PM Father Edmund McCullough, O.P., Associate Chaplain of the University for the Catholic Community | Thursdays, 1 - 3 PM Christina Germak, Campus Minister, Brown-RISD Catholic Community | Tuesdays, 1 - 3 PM The Reverend Delphain Demosthenes, Counselor | Thursdays 1 - 6 PM Brown community members may send questions and requests for counsel, support, information or prayer by email to [email protected] or by calling 401-863-2344. The Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) The Global Brown Center for International Students serves and supports the international student community at Brown through orientations, programming, and resources that embrace and celebrate their international identities, while also recognizing and appreciating the diversity of their experiences. GBC aims to raise awareness of Brown’s diverse student body, educate students on self-advocacy and encourage intercultural dialogue to promote an increasingly equitable campus community. We are available to meet in person or talk via email, Zoom, and by phone from 8:30 AM - 5 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST), Monday through Friday. We are here for you; we are here for each other. Reach Program Director Andrew Heald at [email protected] or Program Coordinator Natalia Román Alicea at [email protected]. LGBTQ Center The LGBTQ Center aims to provide educational and emotional support for, foster communities among, and advocate on behalf of Brown’s LGBTQ+ students, staff, and faculty. We offer a comprehensive range of education/training, cultural, social, and educational programming, support services, and advocacy services to the entire Brown Community. Kelly Garrett (Director) and Caitlin O'Neill (Sr. Assistant Director) are in our offices every weekday and available to meet with any member of the campus community. We are generally scheduling meetings between 9 AM - 5 PM EST but we are very willing to work with anyone who would like to set up a meeting time that works better for your time zone. We do have remote offerings including: Personal and academic advising and support, in person as well as by phone, email, online chat, video-conferencing, or another method that works well for you Provision of resources Educational information and material Social and cultural programs/opportunities for engagement through in-person events and social media. We will be continuing some online discussions, live-streamed performances, and virtual lectures and workshops Consultation, policy advising, education, and support for faculty and staff Do you have a question? Just ask! Office of Military-Affiliated Students (OMAS) The Office of Military-Affiliated Students (OMAS) assists student veterans, ROTC cadets, and other military-affiliated students in making successful transitions into and out of the Brown community. We do this by offering programs and support services that facilitate learning opportunities within the military-affiliated and Brown community at large, connecting students to campus and community resources, and by supporting and advocating for our student veterans and ROTC cadets. In the transition period before our next Program Director starts at Brown, staff on the OMAS transition team will be available to meet with any member of the campus community in our office or virtually. Akash Altman will be in the office on Tuesdays and Fridays, Katie Yetter will be in the office on Wednesdays and Thursdays, and Loc Truong will be available by appointment. We are generally scheduling meetings between 9 AM - 5 PM EST but we are very willing to work with anyone who would like to set up a meeting time that works better for your time zone. Please note that swipe access to our lounge spaces is currently limited to military-affiliated students, faculty, and staff only. For other members of the Brown community and the general public, please contact [email protected] prior to visiting. We do have remote offerings including: Personal and academic advising and support, in person as well as by phone, email, online chat, video-conferencing, or another method that works well for you Provision of resources Educational information and material Social and community-building programs/opportunities for engagement through in-person events and social media Consultation, policy advising, education, and support for faculty and staff Do you have a question? Just ask! Subscribe to the OMAS newsletter, and follow us on Instagram and Facebook to stay updated on OMAS news and announcements! The Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender The Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender, established at Brown in 1974, seeks to provide a comfortable yet challenging place for students, faculty, and staff to examine the multitude of questions around gender. The Sarah Doyle Center offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community and is a site for research into and exploration of gender issues pertinent to the classroom and beyond. The Sarah Doyle Center offers many in-person and online resources which are listed on our website. Felicia Salinas-Moniz, Director of the Sarah Doyle Center, is available to meet with students in person or via Zoom for support and resource referral. Sign up for her open hours at this link or contact her at [email protected] The Sarah Doyle Center will continue to offer some virtual events and programs. Registration for these events will be announced via our newsletter. Sign up for updates at this link. Student Activities Office The Student Activities Office supports students as they engage in identity and community building and leadership development through co-curricular involvement. Through advising, mentoring, and collaborating with student leaders, we foster skill-building and critical thinking. We bridge students’ academic pursuits with their lives outside of the classroom while promoting an inclusive campus community embedded in Brown’s educational mission. As part of the Division of Campus Life, the Student Activities Office leads campus efforts to support 500+ student groups. We support the Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) and Liber Brunensis (Brown's Yearbook). In addition, the office provides oversight and coordination for three facilities that serve the Brown community —the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Greek on-campus housing, and both T.F. Green Hall and Alumnae Hall auditorium for student performing arts. Student Activities also works closely with the Undergraduate Council of Students to recognize and support student organizations. The SAO team is available to meet with students either in person or remotely through whatever form of communication (phone, zoom, etc.) that is most convenient. Please reach out to your advisor directly to schedule via email or contact [email protected] to schedule a remote or in person meeting. Student Conduct & Community Standards The Student Conduct & Community Standards deans and coordinators are committed to providing a safe and educational environment for students engaged in the process of addressing harm. Student Conduct & Community Standards deans are available to meet with students in person or remotely (zoom or telephone). Currently, all accountability processes are scheduled to be heard via zoom. However, students may contact our office and request an in-person meeting (masks required). Students can best reach us through email at [email protected] or directly at our individual email addresses. We are also available by phone at 401-863-2653. Meetings with the Director can be scheduled online. Student Support Services Student Support Services deans are available remotely and in-person to assist students with a wide range of issues and concerns that might arise during their time at Brown. Deans can serve as a sounding board to help students consider their options and can help connect students to the right set of resources at Brown. The Student Support Services team is available to students via phone, email, and video conferencing. Students who have a connection with a dean can reach out to them directly should they need support or to schedule a time to connect. Students can also send an email to [email protected] to request support and to meet with a dean. Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student (U-FLi) Center The Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center) is a communal, learning, and advocacy center for members of the Brown community who identify with the U-FLi student experience. By providing undergraduate and graduate students with a dedicated space that affirms their intersectional identities, the U-FLi Center aims to contribute to the endurance and success of U-FLi students at Brown University. The professional staff of the U-FLi Center, Julio Reyes and Renata Mauriz, are available to offer virtual advising to all U-FLi students. During these advising meetings, we can provide general guidance, navigational support, resource referral, as well as opportunities to reflect and check-in about your experiences as they pertain to being a U-FLi student. Contact the professional staff directly for an appointment: [email protected]; [email protected]. We are available Monday through Friday between 9 AM - 5 PM. Office of Residential Life The Office of Residential Life creates a meaningful, holistic residential experience where students can share a sense of belonging to the Brown community, practice and expand what they are learning in their course of study, be supported in the development of healthy practices, and cultivate connections with their fellow students. The Residential Life staff is available to speak with students about matters that impact their residential experience, including but not limited to housing assignments, roommate conflicts, lockouts, room selection, community building, and programming. Students can submit their questions/concerns to [email protected] and/or request to speak with a member of our team. Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top