Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Publications Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Biology Undergraduate Education Curricular Resources Curricular Resources Teaching Resources for Instructors in the Program in Biology The Office of Biology Undergraduate Education aims to ensure all faculty have the tools to evaluate their BIOL courses while creating a more transparent, clear, and inclusive learning experience for all students. The following resources are available for instructors: Syllabus checklist Course syllabi are one of the first documents shared between an instructor and a student that sets expectations for the course experience. Does your syllabus have the required and recommended content from the Program in Biology and the Sheridan Center? Download an interactive checklist and find out. “How-to” for writing course learning objectives in a measurable format Research shows that courses that use specific and measurable learning objectives create transparency and foster an inclusive learning experience for all students. The Program in Biology aims to ensure all BIOL courses provide students with learning objectives that are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and timely - AKA “SMART” format. Are your objectives SMART? Download this infographic to find out! Guidelines on integrating diversity and inclusion statements into course syllabi Diversity and inclusion statements provide information to students on the importance of respecting multiple perspectives inside the classroom. This may include the importance of respecting and valuing others’ backgrounds, identities, and experiences. Do you have a diversity and inclusion statement on your syllabus? Download this resource guide to learn more about how to include this information and for examples. Program in Biology expectations for undergraduate teaching assistants (UTAs) Teaching is a valuable learning and employment opportunity for our undergraduate students and a novel experience for many of them. Guidelines for hiring UTAs and clear expectations for when they are working lead to successful partnerships. Want a refresher on UTA guidelines, or need assistance writing your UTA expectations? Download this template and resource guide to learn more. Integrating inclusive teaching practices into your course Inclusive teaching practices ensure that all students are able to engage with course content, learn effectively, and demonstrate their learning through multiple assessment modalities. These practices support learning from all students, but in particular, those who identify in historically underrepresented groups (HUGs). Do you incorporate inclusive teaching practices into your courses? If so, add it to the Inclusive Practices in BIOL and Neuro Courses shared document. Or, download this resource guide to learn more about adopting an inclusive teaching practice. Publishing Educational Scholarship - Get that Paper! Did you know that the innovative teaching and assessment methods you design for your courses can be published in peer-reviewed education journals? Publishing education research benefits the educational community at large as well as your own professional academic career. Peer reviewed journals may be in broad categories, such as STEM education or in more specific categories, such as Biochemistry education. Learn how to share your ideas with the educational community (and add to your C/V!) by reviewing the Get That Paper guide and scheduling a consultation with one of us! We invite you to collaborate with us through scheduling a 1-1 consultation on incorporating these resources with Toni-Marie Achilli or Kristina Monteiro by scheduling a time using our calendar links below. Consultations can include providing additional information, feedback, or even writing. Toni-Marie Achilli, PhD Assistant Dean for Biology Undergraduate Education [email protected] or Calendly Kristina Monteiro, PhD Director, Academic Assessment & Evaluation for Biology [email protected] or Calendly Related Files Syllabus Checklist.pdf Course Learning Objectives Resource.pdf Including Diversity and Inclusion Statements on Course Syllabi.pdf UTA Guidelines Information and Template.pdf Incorporating Inclusive Teaching Practices into Biology Courses.pdf Written Guidelines and Expectations of BIOL UTAs Template.docx Get that Paper! Resource.pdf Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Publications Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity