Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>Support>Canvas>Canvas FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Canvas FAQs 1. Where do I login? Visit https://canvas.baylor.edu, click the Canvas Login button, and login with Bear_ID (firstname_lastname) and password. 2. What will I see? The first thing you will see after logging into Canvas is the Dashboard. By default, your Dashboard will show your courses, global announcements, and a sidebar with other items. Users may elect to display their recent activity and notifications on the Dashboard rather than their list of courses. Related Guides: How do I use the Dashboard? 3. When I attempt to login, I'm getting the "Canvas doesn't have an account for user" error. What's going on? All courses and users for the current semester should be automatically loaded into Canvas. If you are a new student and have just registered for courses, you may have to wait for 24-hours while your account is updated. If you still receive a message that your account does not exist, please contact the Baylor ITS Help Desk at (254) 710-4357. 4. After I login to Canvas, I get a blank screen. What should I do? The login screen you see when you access the Canvas login page is Baylor's single-sign on (SSO) portal, not the login screen supported by Canvas. This authentication technology is called Shibboleth and allows anyone with a BearID (firstname_lastname) and password to access online resources not hosted by the university. Therefore, any issues related to SSO logins should be reported to the Help Desk at (254) 710-HELP. 5. How do I get assistance with Canvas? Baylor subscribes to Instructure's Tier One 24x7 phone support. In addition to being able to chat directly with Canvas support representatives, faculty, staff, and students will be able to call a dedicated phone number, at the time most convenient to them, to get one-on-one assistance from Canvas. See our Help & Support page to learn more. To get help with issues requiring the assistance of a Baylor Canvas support admin, please call the Help Desk at (254) 710-HELP or use Instructure's chat page to contact a Canvas support tech directly 24/7. 6. I'm trying to use the Canvas mobile app, but I don't know what Baylor's Canvas URL is. When logging into the mobile app, you'll need to type "baylor.instructure.com" in the "Enter your canvas URL" field to login. Users will then be directed to Baylor's SSO (single-sign on) page. For more information about Instructure's mobile apps for Canvas visit our Mobile Apps page. 7. How do I make a feature request or suggest an improvement? Participating in the Canvas Community system is the most effective way to influence how Instructure prioritizes and develops changes to its product. Please refer to our Suggesting Improvements page to learn how to track the progress of existing feature requests or to submit a new one. 8. How do I log out of Canvas? Canvas relies on Baylor's single-sign on technology called "Shibboleth" to handle user authentication with Bear_ID (firstname_lastname) and password. Other systems that use Shibboleth include Box (http://baylor.box.com), Qualtrics (http://baylor.qualtrics.com), and CampusPress, formerly Edublogs (http://blogs.baylor.edu). When logging out of any system using Shibboleth, users will have to close their browsers completely--this is particularly important when using shared computers in lab environments. In computer labs, it's always a good idea to log out of the computer when you're done using it. Windows users: To log out of Canvas, click the "X" button in the top right-hand corner of your browser to shut the browser down completely (simply closing a single tab won't do the trick). Mac OSX users: Closing the browser itself won't log you out of Canvas; you must quit the browser application entirely. The "Quit" option is normally found under the application menu item in the toolbar when the browser is active. For example, if using Chrome on Mac OSX: Click Chrome > Quit Google Chrome in the menu bar. Faculty FAQs 1. What are Notifications? Notifications allow faculty and students to select their preferred communication channels for course activity. NOTE: Faculty cannot control how students elect to receive notifications. By default, notifications for course announcements and conversations will be sent to a student's Baylor email address, but a student may disable these notifications. Make sure your students understand how you intend to communicate with them throughout the semester. Related Guides: How do I set my Canvas notification preferences? 2. How can I send an email to students through Canvas? Canvas does not have a "Send Email" function, so it cannot be used to send emails directly to students. Instead, Canvas has its own built-in communication system accessed through the Inbox link. You can use this tool to send Canvas messages to all users of a site in Canvas or to individual users within Canvas. If the recipient has not changed their notification settings, they will usually also receive a copy of that message as a notification to their email address in addition to the Inbox messaging tool in Canvas. However, because each individual user can customize their own notification settings (or opt-out of notifications entirely), the only guaranteed way to send an email to someone is to do so through Baylor's email system and not from within Canvas. To learn more about the Inbox tool in Canvas, please visit https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor-Guide/How-do-I-send-a-message-to-all-course-users-in-the-Inbox-as-an/ta-p/600. 3. What are Files? The Files area is where you upload all of your course content. While you can give students access to this part of your course, the Files area in your course is intended to be instructor-facing, not student-facing. Related Guides: What are Files for instructors? 4. Where do I put my course content? Modules organize your content and provide navigational buttons for students moving through the course. This is the student-facing counterpart to Files. From the module view you can: Create or upload new content Add existing course content Design a course flow for your students Related Guides: What are Modules for instructors? 5. What type of content can I put in my modules? Canvas allows you to add the following content types to your module: Files (to view or download; this includes MS Word docs, PDFs, PowerPoints, etc.) Assignments Quizzes External URLs Links to external tools Discussion boards Content pages 6. What does Publish mean? Publish is the way Canvas allows you to make your course available to students. Students will not see your course until it is Published. In addition to publishing your course as a whole, you can choose to publish or unpublish various elements of your course - including Assignments, Pages, Quizzes, etc. - at any point in the semester. You cannot unpublish the entire course once students have submitted work, but you can unpublish anything within the course. NOTE: If you wish to make your course visible to students earlier than a week prior to the start of the term date, you will need to adjust your course section dates before publishing your course. In addition, you will not be able to send conversation messages to students until you publish your course. Related Guides: How do I publish a course? How do I edit the details for a course section? 7. How do I share my course content with another instructor? The easiest way to share content with another instructor is to add them into your course as a Designer which will give that person the ability to see your content and use the Import Course Content option from within their own course. Another option without providing direct access to your course is to simply create a Course Export file and share that .zip file. 8. What are the course roles in Canvas? In Canvas, you can easily add new users into your course in addition to those that are added automatically. Do this by using the "+ People" button on the People tab as seen here and selecting what role you want the user to have. Students have the ability to submit assignments and interact with the course. Students have restricted permissions, but they have enough permissions to use Canvas. Teachers are course admins and have full control over the course. TAs are very similar to teachers in the sense of permissions, except TAs do not have access to add or remove Teachers, TAs, Designers, or Graders. Designers have access to create and edit course content, discussions, announcements, assignments, quizzes, and other content features. Designers cannot access grades. If users also need access to input grades, they should be listed as TA instead. Graders have access to grades and assignments within a course, but will not have access to modify other course content. If users also need to access or modify course content, they should be listed as TA instead. Observers are non-participating guests that can be added to a course. This role allows a user to see course content without allowing the user to participate in the course. Communicators have the ability to manage communication within a course. They can send messages to the entire class, post announcements, and moderate discussion boards. This role can be added to an existing role like Student to provide select class leaders with greater responsibility within the class. 9. Can I request a guest login for Canvas? Baylor faculty can request Canvas login credentials for non-Baylor users like guest speakers or supervising instructors outside of Baylor. Canvas guest accounts will not be created for new or existing faculty, staff, or students who should access Canvas using a Bear_ID secured with DUO. For guests who need access to systems other than Canvas, a department sponsor will need to request a temporary Bear_ID from ITS - Guest Access to Online Services. Once the requested guest account has been created, it can be added to any course by the instructor of that course. To request a Canvas guest account please login through the Outside User Login. IMPORTANT: By requesting a guest account, you are responsible for ensuring that your guest follows the Baylor Technology Systems Usage Policy and Baylor Password Policies. Although Canvas guest accounts do not automatically expire every 180 days, guest passwords must still adhere to the defined password structure. For example, passwords should be at least ten characters long and contain a mix of upper case letters, lower case letters, numbers, or special characters. You are also responsible for ensuring that the purpose of the requested guest account and the role which you assign to the guest within your course complies with Baylor's guidelines pertaining to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). In most cases, guests should not have a Canvas Course Role higher than "student" or "course builder". Baylor Technology Systems Usage Policy Baylor University Password Policies Baylor FERPA Guidelines 10. What role should I give an outside user in my course? You are also responsible for ensuring that the purpose of the requested guest account and the role which you assign to the guest within your course complies with Baylor's guidelines pertaining to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). In most cases, guests should not have a Canvas Course Role higher than Student or Designer. Please refer to the following policies for additional guidelines: Baylor Technology Usage Policy Baylor University Password Policies Baylor FERPA Guidelines 11. What is the Observer role? To learn more about observer participation, view the Observers Visibility and Participation PDF. Observers can View and read announcements View the syllabus View list of assignments and quizzes View the course calendar Send conversation messages to instructor and student they are observing View files unless they are locked View grades of student they are observing View modules and see due dates, point values, etc. Observers cannot Comment on announcements or discussions Submit assignments or quizzes Edit grades View the course roster Send conversation messages to students in the course they are not observing View locked files or folders Join groups View unpublished courses or course content View the content of a quiz Submit anything on behalf of a student 12. How can I ensure test integrity and deter cheating on quizzes using Canvas? The resource linked below was created to help our faculty better understand quiz settings and how they can be used to enhance quiz security. In many cases locking down a quiz as much as possible (ex: not allowing students to review what they got wrong on a quiz) can hinder student learning, so be sure to think through the positives, negatives, and the goals of the quiz before securing it. There is no way (in class or online) to guarantee that students aren't cheating, but to maximize quiz security there are various ways you can apply your quiz settings and availability. For additional information, please visit: https://community.canvaslms.com/docs/DOC-3313-quiz-settings-to-maximize-security. 13. How do I enable proctoring for a quiz in Canvas? Respondus LockDown Browser and Monitor is a proctoring solution available for Canvas quizzes. Students use their own computer and a webcam to record assessment sessions, all without leaving Canvas. Powerful analytics are used to detect suspicious behaviors during an exam session. Video segments with potential exam violations are flagged for the instructor, with an overall risk level assigned to the exam session. For additional information about Respondus, please visit: https://www.baylor.edu/lib/factech/respondus 14. I've cross-listed my courses and now I can't see any of their original grades or assignments. What do I do? Teachers cannot de-crosslist their own courses, but a Canvas system administrator can. When the courses are de-crosslisted, all grades and assignments from the original gradebook will be visible again. Any group memberships may have to be re-established, but everything else should return to the state it was in prior to the cross-listing. 15. How do I enable Webex or Zoom in my Canvas course? Inside your Canvas course, open Settings from the course menu, and click on the Navigation tab at the top. Then simply drag Webex or Zoom into the list of active course menu items, and click Save at the bottom of the screen. 16. What do I do if I run out of space in Canvas since there is a 500MB file quota per course? We can increase specific courses from 500MB to 1000MB upon request. However, we encourage you to take advantage of the following options. For large files or a large quantity of files, use Box, which provides unlimited file storage and can be linked to from within Canvas very easily. We even have a Box LTI tool integrated with Canvas so faculty can select files and folders to add as External Tool links in modules if they'd like. For videos or media files, use Kaltura which is fully integrated into Canvas as Media Gallery. For scanned articles or journals, use Baylor's Library Electronic Reserves system (also available through Canvas in the Library Resources button) so that they can put those online for you and even take care of obtaining copyright permission as needed. 17. How do I change the start and end dates for a course section? Students will only be able to access your course or receive notifications for your course if you have published your course and it is within the section start/end date range. Even if you have published your course, it will still be inaccessible to students if the current date is outside of the section date range. If you want your students to access your course early or maintain access to your course after the end date, click on the section title in Settings > Sections to edit the section's start date. 18. How can I extend a student's access to a course from a prior term? If you'd like all of your students to maintain access to your course after the default end date, you can easily adjust the Section end date for the existing section in Canvas. To do that, click on the section title in your course's Settings > Sections tab, and then edit the section's end date. If instead, you'd like to give a just one student (or a few students) access to a prior course, you must create a new Section in your course with unique start dates and end dates. Create a new section within the course. Set the new section's start and end dates. Add the student(s) to the new section. 19. What textbook publisher platforms have been integrated with Canvas? Canvas has been integrated with all of the major textbook publisher platforms listed below. For more information about each platform, please contact your the representative from your publishing company. Each publisher will provide you with their own setup instructions, support, and training necessary to use their service within Canvas. Cambridge myBusiness Course (only available in HSB) Cengage Learning Mindlinks Flatworld Homework InfoSec Learning (only available in ISY) Knewton Alta Macmillan Learning Sapling Learning McGraw Hill Campus McGraw Hill Connect Pearson MyEnglishLab Pearson MyLab and Mastering Pearson Revel Wiley Plus Note: If the publisher asks you to configure the LTI integration and provides a consumer key and shared secret codes for any of the tools listed above, this part of the process has already been completed for you at Baylor. Please inform your representative that the LTI setup has already been completed so you can proceed to the next steps with using their tool. 20. Is there anything else I need to know about Canvas? Here are a few things to keep in mind when working in Canvas: Your course will be created and populated with students for you. When your course is over, do not select Conclude Course. This may make student information unavailable in the future. You are able to add TAs or people to other roles from the People tab in your course. Related Guides: How do I add a TA to my course? 21. Where can I go if I need help or want to learn more? Please visit our Help & Support page for additional assistance. Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Publisher Integrations Rich Content Editor Tools Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login