Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Health and Safety Breadcrumb Campus Life Health and Safety A Healthy Campus UC Riverside cares about its students’ and employees’ health and wellbeing. That’s why our Healthy Campus initiative was formed in 2016 — to help our students, faculty, and staff achieve greater school and work-life balance. Learn more about the group and how it’s making UCR a healthier place to live and learn. Student Health Services UCR’s Student Health Services enriches the student experience through convenient, affordable, and easily accessible medical care — because we do well when we feel well. In addition to providing our registered students with primary care and treating their injuries, Student Health Services also offers a full-service laboratory, travel consultations for students traveling abroad, routine dental care, vision care, pharmacy services, and reciprocal access for students currently registered at other UC campuses. Make an appointment or learn more about eligibility and fees associated with the center. Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) All UCR students are automatically enrolled in the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP). The cost for this program is included in our student fees and provides convenient, on-campus care; nationwide coverage; and vision and dental coverage at no extra cost. SHIP also meets the requirements of the Affordable Care Act and can be used even if a student’s family is participating in Covered CA or a home state exchange plan. Learn more about SHIP. Total Wellness At UCR, we care about the total wellbeing of our students — and creating a positive and healthy environment in which to foster it. We offer a variety of health- and wellness-related education, training, resources, and programming through The Well, UCR’s student wellbeing and health promotion department. In addition, Counseling and Psychological Services provides UCR students with access to mental health resources to support their academic, career, personal, and social development. UCR Health Established alongside the UC Riverside School of Medicine, UCR Health is bringing patient-centered primary care and specialty services to the communities of Inland Southern California. Medical offices are located throughout the region, offering comprehensive access to university-affiliated healthcare. Safety Our students’ safety is a top priority, and we have teams of people dedicated to their protection. From our campus police and community service officers to our Campus Safety Escort Service, UCR students can count on feeling safe and secure in the areas where they live and learn. Related Topics Campus Life Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety About Riverside Walk-in Clinic Hours 8 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday 9 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Thursday SERVICES Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel