Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now UCF Doctorates Explore Doctoral Programs Achieve Your Career Goals with a Doctorate Become a leading expert and researcher in your field. Earning your doctoral degree from a university known for innovative research provides you with an opportunity to gain valuable hands-on experience using modern resources and facilities that equip you for success. Offering doctoral, professional doctoral and research specialist degree programs, UCF offers a range of programs to advance your education. Learn from world-renowned faculty and prepare for the highest level of theory and practice in your field. Take what you learn in the classroom, and create lasting change in your career. Whether you’re looking for a role within academia, industry or government sectors, UCF doctoral programs allow you to prove your abilities, expand your expertise and develop solutions that yield useful insights. Pursue a doctorate. Participate in advanced study and innovative research in your chosen field with a doctoral degree from UCF. Start on your path toward academic excellence today. Top 10 Doctorates* Top 10 Majors* Medicine MD Nursing Practice DNP Computer Science PhD Education PhD Electrical Engineering PhD Physical Therapy DPT Mechanical Engineering PhD Optics and Photonics PhD Psychology PhD Physics PhD *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. Research Support Research is a complex process. That’s why UCF’s libraries, the Office of Research and various other departments provide you with the tools and services you need. From planning your research project to publishing and presenting, we’re here to help you succeed. Explore some of the research services and resources you’ll have access to below. Planning Gain the foundation and rationale needed to build research questions, identify gaps and support claims. From documenting the data you collect and generate to managing digital files to ensure usability and long-term preservation, you’ll get the help you need to guide you through every step. Whether you’re working on a dissertation, thesis or creative project, you’ll have access to various workshops and individual research consultations from the library and the Office of Research. Preserving and Disseminating Make sure your hard work is safe and preserved in an organized, efficient way. If it is stored or shared in an accessible location, then your works are easily disseminated to impact worldwide scholarship. Depending on the format of data, document, or other scholarship, we’ll help develop a preservation plan that helps ensure the future use of your data and materials. Publishing and Presenting Get the support you need to help reach your publishing goals. UCF’s Office of Scholarly Communication offers services for publishing, presenting and knowing your author rights. Writing workshops are also available through various departments. Prestige, Impact and Discovery Help others locate your work with discovery support. When your research is found and cited, your impact measures will rise. From citation to alternative metrics, we’ll help you with collecting and analyzing impact factor rankings and other measures. Featured Degrees Aerospace Engineering Through this program, you’ll have the opportunity — through coursework and research — to meet the highest standards of academic achievement in the core areas of aerospace engineering, including aerodynamics, astrodynamics and space propulsion, and more. This program also has potential ties to state-regulated professional licensure or certification in the field. Hospitality Management Earn your doctorate in hospitality management, and prepare for a number of opportunities, including a teaching or research-based career in academic, as a research practitioner or as a field consultant in hospitality and tourism enterprises. You’ll graduate with the research skills, substantive knowledge, professional network and record of achievement, including publications and presentations, necessary for success. Modeling and Simulation Gain a broad perspective of the developing simulation industry and learn the skills necessary to work in varied capacities in government agencies, or in the defense, service, entertainment and manufacturing industries. You’ll also have an opportunity to focus your study and research efforts in areas such as behavioral cybersecurity, computer visualization and simulation in healthcare. Nursing Practice Study at the highest level of practice for the current healthcare environment, including clinical practice models, health policy and standards of care. Choose from five tracks available with curricula based on a strong scientific foundation for practice; flexibility and emphasis on evidence-based practice, leadership, and organizational analysis; and analysis of the DNP project. Learning Charges On Through dynamic change and unprecedented challenges, UCF supports you as you move forward. Whether you’re on campus or online, we are here to prepare you for meaningful achievements and a rewarding future. Together, we’ll continue to Charge On. Succeed in Online Learning Doctoral Degrees Arts and Humanities Texts and Technology (PhD) Business Business Administration (PhD) Business Administration (PhD) - Accounting Business Administration (PhD) - Finance Business Administration (PhD) - Management Business Administration (PhD) - Marketing Community Innovation and Education Criminal Justice (PhD) Curriculum and Instruction (Ed.D.) Education (PhD) Education (PhD) - Counselor Education Education (PhD) - Early Childhood Education (PhD) - Elementary Education Education (PhD) - Exceptional Education Education (PhD) - Exercise Physiology Education (PhD) - Higher Education Education (PhD) - Instructional Design and Technology Education (PhD) - Learning Sciences Education (PhD) - Mathematics Education Education (PhD) - Methodology, Measurement and Analysis Education (PhD) - Reading Education Education (PhD) - Science Education Education (PhD) - Social Science Education Education (PhD) - Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Education (PhD) - Teaching, Learning, and Development Track Educational Leadership (EdD) Educational Leadership (EdD) - Executive Track Educational Leadership (EdD) - Higher Education Public Affairs (PhD) Public Affairs (PhD) - Criminal Justice Public Affairs (PhD) - Governance and Policy Research Public Affairs (PhD) - Health Services Management and Research Public Affairs (PhD) - Public Administration Public Affairs (PhD) - Public Administration (MPA) Dual Degree Public Affairs (PhD) - Social Work Engineering and Computer Science Aerospace Engineering (PhD) Civil Engineering (PhD) Computer Engineering (PhD) Computer Science (PhD) Electrical Engineering (PhD) Environmental Engineering (PhD) Industrial Engineering (PhD) Materials Science and Engineering (PhD) Mechanical Engineering (PhD) Graduate Studies Modeling and Simulation (PhD) Health Professions and Sciences Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Kinesiology (PhD) Hospitality Management Hospitality Management (PhD) Medicine Biomedical Sciences (PhD) Biomedical Sciences (PhD) - MD/PhD Track Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Advanced Practice DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - ARNP Post Master's Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Executive Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) - Family Nurse Practitioner Nursing (PhD) Nursing (PhD) - BSN to PhD Optics and Photonics Optics and Photonics (PhD) Sciences Big Data Analytics (PhD) Big Data Analytics (PhD) - Statistics Track Biomedical Sciences (PhD) Chemistry (PhD) Conservation Biology (PhD) Conservation Biology (PhD) - Conservation Biology Conservation Biology (PhD) - Integrative Biology Integrative and Conservation Biology (Ph.D.) Integrative and Conservation Biology (Ph.D) - Integrative Biology Integrative and Conservation Biology (PhD) - Conservation Biology Integrative Anthropological Sciences (PhD) Mathematics (PhD) Mathematics (PHD) - Financial Mathematics Track Physics (PhD) Physics (PhD) - Planetary Sciences Psychology (PhD) Psychology (PhD) - Clinical Psychology (PhD) - Human Factors & Cognitive Psychology Psychology (PhD) - Industrial and Organizational Security Studies (PhD) Sociology (PhD) Strategic Communication (PhD) Thirteen colleges. Unlimited possibilities. At UCF, we offer an array of academic options for just about every interest. Check out our 230+ degree programs, award-winning faculty and groundbreaking research. You’ll quickly discover all there is to experience and get inspired by at one of the nation’s largest universities. Arts and Humanities Business Burnett Honors Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Rosen College of Hospitality Management Sciences Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida