Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Science & Technology Mechanical and Aerospace Ph.D. Candidate, Professor Win 2022 Best Paper Award By Matilyn Mortensen | May 16, 2022 Full Size USU Ph.D. Candidate Cory Goates (pictured here) and his adviser Douglas Hunsaker recently won the 2022 Applied Aerodynamics Best Paper Award from the 2022 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics SciTech Forum. × Download Close Download Utah State University mechanical and aerospace engineering doctoral candidate Cory Goates and his adviser Douglas Hunsaker, an associate professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at USU, recently won the 2022 Applied Aerodynamics Best Paper Award from the 2022 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics SciTech Forum. The technical paper entitled “Development of a Subsonic-Supersonic, Unstructured Panel Method” was published by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics in December of last year. The panel methods explored in the paper are low-order techniques for predicting supersonic aircraft performance and sonic boom loudness. Panel methods were more commonly used in the ’70s and ’80s and have been largely superseded by more modern methods. Despite neglecting some aspects of the flow when using panel methods, Goates said the benefits to using them include the fact that these methods require less computing power and are still remarkably accurate. “It's exciting to have the research recognized,” Goates said. “This is something that is often overlooked. Aerodynamicists these days tend to jump to high-fidelity methods, such as full computational fluid dynamics, which can be more accurate but require more computing power and time. They forget that there are older, faster, low-order methods they can use.” Goates and Hunsaker have been working on this research with NASA and other university partners and will continue to work to improve these methods as part of Goates’s dissertation work. WRITER Matilyn Mortensen Public Relations Specialist College of Engineering 435-797-7512 matilyn.mortensen@usu.edu CONTACT Cory Goates cory.goates@usu.edu TOPICS Research 717stories Engineering 253stories Aerospace 73stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Science & Technology May 24, 2022 820 Space Dynamics Lab Elects Retired Space Commander to Board of Directors Utah State University's Space Dynamics Laboratory announced Tuesday that it has elected retired U.S. Air Force Lt. Gen. John F. Thompson to its Board of Directors. Read the Story See Also May 24, 2022 1214 A Closer Look: USU Installs New Scanner for Non-Invasive Analysis of Biological, Other Specimens A group of Aggie scientists secured a $402,500 grant from the National Science Foundation in August 2021 to fund the acquisition of a high-resolution 3D, micro-computed tomographic X-ray system. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page