Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering [email protected] Information Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Site Navigation Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Adding an RSVP [email protected] can collect simple RSVP information from event attendees. To add an RSVP to your event, click the checkbox next to “RSVP” and complete the appropriate fields. RSVP Basics When users RSVP to an event using [email protected] they are automatically required to provide their first name, last name and email address. Enter the event organizer's email address in the "E-mail address of event organizer" field. [email protected] sends a registration confirmation from this email address to users who RSVP. This field is populated, by default, with the login email address of the user creating the event. Provide additional registration instructions in the "Special instructions?" field. This field is optional. Enter text for the automated registration confirmation email in the text editor under “Text for your automated email response.” If you would like to be notified by email whenever a calendar user registers for an event, click the checkbox next to “Notify by email when RSVPs are submitted” and enter an email address in the field. This field is populated, by default, with the login email address of the user creating the event. Limiting RSVPs If you wish to limit the number of attendees to your event, set the number in the "Maximum RSVP attendees" field. If you wish to limit the number of people each registrant can RSVP for, set a limit in the "Maximum attendees per RSVP submission" field. If you prefer each attendee to register separately, then set this number to one. To create a waitlist click the checkbox next to "Enable waitlist" and then set a limit on the number of waitlist registrants. To limit registrants to a particular group of people, check the box labeled "Limit to specific email addresses or domains" and enter either the domain(s) or email address(es). Each domain (e.g., brown.edu) or email address should be separated by a comma. Registration Period If you wish to set a start date and/or set an end date for attendees to register, click the checkbox next to “Set a time and date for RSVP start and/or cutoff?” and enter the appropriate date(s). You can optionally enter time(s). Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top