Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search About UW Tacoma About UW Tacoma About expand_more Campus Map Equity & Inclusion Leadership Sustainability Vision, Mission & Values Academics expand_more Academic Calendar Global Affairs Register for Classes Schools & Programs Student Resources Admissions expand_more Apply now Financial Aid & Scholarships Freshmen Graduate Students Majors & Degrees Transfer Students Tuition Visit Campus Students expand_more Center for Student Involvement Register for classes Student Affairs Student Life Student Resources Study Abroad Faculty & Staff expand_more Academic Calendar Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Research & Grant Support Community expand_more Alumni Conference Services Husky Landing Professional Development Center UWT Downtown Guide University Bookstore News & Events expand_more Academic Calendar Dawgden Events Calendar News Give MyUW Map Tools Campus Life GET INVOLVED From academic to cultural and social, there are many different clubs on campus, each with its own focus. The Student Activities Board and Center for Equity & Inclusion sponsor a variety of cultural, entertainment and social-issue events during the academic year. Engage with the Associated Students of UW Tacoma (ASUWT), an elected body that represents student interests on campus and in the community. GET A BITE TO EAT Restaurants and coffee shops are located right on campus and are open for breakfast, lunch, dinner and beyond. Check out what Pac Ave has for you! STAY HEALTHY The University Y Student Center has a game room, basketball court, cardio, weights, a climbing wall, an indoor track and locker rooms. UW Tacoma students automatically receive a membership to ALL YMCA locations around the country. SERVE YOUR COUNTRY UW Tacoma participates in Army ROTC in partnership with PLU. For more info, contact the Army ROTC Career Counselor: ROTC@plu.edu SERVE YOUR COMMUNITY Looking to get engaged on and off campus? Participating in community service helps students who want to make a difference in the community grow as future leaders. You can volunteer at local nonprofits, attend local service events on and off campus, or participate in several programs designed for student schedules! Learn more about Community Service and Leadership programs! BE ENTERTAINED Walk across the street and check out a museum or hop aboard the LINK train to the Tacoma Dome for a concert or go the other way to the Theater District. You could always stroll the shops around Pacific Avenue or take a walk to Alma Mater. There you’ll find a cafe and the occasional show or even night market. If you’re looking to get away from the hustle and bustle, consider soaking up the scenery at Point Defiance Park and Point Ruston Waterfront. There’s lots to discover! Contact UW Tacoma University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 phone_iphone 253-692-4400 email uwtinfo@uw.edu ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login Puyallup Tribe of Indians Tribal Sponsor of UW Tacoma Learn More > Land Acknowledgement > UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy