COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Three high school seniors selected as 2021 Gore Scholars Jan. 28, 2021 — Wichita State University has selected the 2021 recipients of the Harry Gore Memorial Scholarships: Annie Wasinger from Thomas More Prep High School in Hays, Kansas; Braden Webb from Blue Valley North High School in Overland Park, Kansas; and Alondra Valle from Dodge City High School in Dodge City, Kansas. Team explores link between artificial intelligence and quantum computing Jan. 27, 2021 — For three decades, an interdisciplinary team at Wichita State has been exploring how machine learning – also known as artificial intelligence – can maximize the potential of quantum computing. Disposable stethoscope emerges from Wichita State's COVID relief efforts Jan. 5, 2021 - A Wichita State University-based program aimed at aiding frontline workers in the fight against COVID-19 has resulted in the formation of a new Wichita startup company and a premium disposable stethoscope. The Single Patient Stethoscope™ from Ad Astra Medical Devices, LLC, boasts a sturdy, lightweight design engineered for maximum performance in today’s demanding medical environments. Convergence Sciences researchers target 3D printing waste Jan. 4, 2021 — The 3D printing revolution is nothing short of remarkable, but it also produces a considerable amount of waste. In fact, it’s estimated that up to 19% of 3D printing is waste. A team of interdisciplinary researchers at Wichita State University is working to create sustainable 3D printing practices to reduce that waste. Regents approve four new programs to support digital transformation initiative Dec. 17, 2020 — With the intention of furthering Wichita State University’s commitment to digital transformation, the Kansas Board of Regents has approved four degree programs that will launch in spring 2021: Bachelor of Arts in Applied Linguistics, Master of Science in Data Science, Master of Science in Business Analytics, and Master of Science in Mathematical Foundations of Data Analysis. These degrees are in addition to existing undergraduate and graduate degrees and certificates in applied computing, computer science, cybersecurity, homeland security, and supply chain. Wichita State establishes new School of Computing Dec. 10, 2020 -- The Kansas Board of Regents has approved the creation of the newest department at Wichita State University’s College of Engineering – the School of Computing. Dean Dennis Livesay called the establishment of the new school a significant marker of the university’s commitment to producing digital-skilled workforce needed by industry. Evergy invests in WSU's electrical engineering program with solar panel initiative November 23, 2020 - In February, Evergy invested in three initiatives that added valuable assets to the engineering program. One of those initiatives was the installation of solar panels on the roof of the John Bardo Center. Meet a Shocker: Zane Storlie Nov. 16, 2020 — Zane Storlie has not only dedicated his time at Wichita State to learning everything he can about computer science, but he’s also been an advocate for computer science education for elementary and middle school students in the area. Zane created a three-unit curriculum to teach Scratch coding to more than 750 students in Wichita Public Schools, and the Derby school district asked him to present a teacher training course to its librarians. Meet a Shocker: Abdelhakim Al Turk Nov. 16, 2020 — Abdelhakim Al Turk came to Wichita State University to study engineering from Lebanon. Throughout his time in Wichita, he has appreciated the mentorship and hands-on experience he’s gotten from the College of Engineering and through his work at the Rapid Prototyping and 3D Printing Lab. Meet a Shocker: LaShaya Lawrie Nov. 16, 2020 – LaShaya Lawrie chose Wichita State because it’s close to home. While pursuing her Bachelor of Science in biomedical engineering, LaShaya became involved on campus. LaShaya is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Wichita State researchers address health disparities, obesity Nov. 5, 2020 — A team of researchers at Wichita State University is working to promote health equity among vulnerable populations. The all-woman, cross-disciplinary team is focusing its initial efforts on issues related to obesity among underrepresented groups. Meet a Shocker: Rachit Rajput Rachit Rajput, from Shimla, India, came to Wichita State in 2015 on faith in the engineering program. He leaves with a master’s degree in industrial engineering. Rachit is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Convergence Sciences team helps communities predict, prepare for disasters Oct. 30. 2020 — A team of interdisciplinary researchers at Wichita State University is using artificial intelligence and big data to digitally transform the way communities predict and respond to natural disasters. Wichita State doubles output of engineering grads ahead of schedule Oct. 20, 2020 — The Kansas Legislature in 2011 made a commitment to invest $105 million statewide over the next decade with the purpose of increasing the number of engineers available to industry. For its $35 million share of that money – granted under the University Engineering Initiative Act (UEIA) – Wichita State College of Engineering pledged to double the number of bachelor’s degrees it awarded annually. The aggressive goal was surpassed this past academic year as the college awarded 380 bachelor’s degrees. Wichita State joins prestigious national research institute to boost AI Aug. 26, 2020 — Wichita State University has been named a founding member of a newly formed AI Institute for Foundations of Machine Learning (IFML), established by a $20 million grant from the National Science Foundation. First Previous 2 3 4 5 6 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©