Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics Forward Arrow Academics Visit the College Forward Arrow Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Back Arrow Back Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students Forward Arrow Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Back Arrow Back Academic Advising Back Arrow Back Departments Forward Arrow Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Back Arrow Back Outreach About Forward Arrow About Administration Department Chairs College Directory Forward Arrow College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach Back Arrow Back College Boards Honors and Awards New Building Forward Arrow New Building About the New Building Building News Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Alumni Forward Arrow Alumni Exchange Monthly Back Arrow Back Recruiters Faculty and Staff Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics show submenu for Academics Visit the College show submenu for Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students show submenu for Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Policy Departments show submenu for Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Outreach About show submenu for About Administration Department Chairs College Directory show submenu for College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach College Boards Honors and Awards New Building show submenu for New Building About the New Building Building News Resources show submenu for Resources Alumni show submenu for Alumni Exchange Monthly Recruiters Faculty and Staff Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business About New Building Current: Building News Building News October 25, 2021: New business building receives construction industry recognition The new home to business education in the heart of Clemson University’s campus has received accolades from a leading construction industry publication as being the best higher-education building project in the Southeast. The award-winning recognition bestowed by Engineering News-Record Southeast is a testament to the collaborative teamwork between DPR, the general contractor, and University officials, according to the project’s director. Read more. August 23, 2021: DPR Delivers a Clemson Campus Showpiece with the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business As students return to classes at Clemson University, they'll take advantage of the latest DPR Construction-built project to open its doors on the South Carolina campus. The new Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business signals that Clemson Powers Business. Overlooking the heart of campus with views to Lake Hartwell and the Blue Ridge Mountains beyond, the future-focused facility offers a collaborative, inspiring space for students and educators alike, while also facilitating an enhanced interface between academics and industry meant to attract the best and the brightest. Read more. May 10, 2021: Opening the Doors of Opportunity The generosity of committed donors supports some of the most innovative spaces within the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business. A strategically planned learning environment that brings students, faculty and industry together in a collaborative space, one that is forward-thinking in its design and daily application: This is the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business. Find out more. October 16, 2020: $60 million transformational gift elevates business at Clemson President Clements announces University's largest-ever gift, which positions Clemson's College of Business to become a nationally recognized program for educating global leaders. With this gift from longtime South Carolina philanthropists and friends of the University Wilbur O. "Billy" and Ann Powers, these cutting-edge plans have a home under the roof of the newly named Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business, which is housed in a new state-of-the-art building that opened this semester. Read more. October 16, 2020: Technology in new business building eclipses innovation on Clemson campus From optimized, high-tech windows with majestic views of the Blue Ridge Mountains to more than six dozen monitors that deliver almost wall-to-wall, high-definition learning, business education's new home at Clemson University is awash in cutting-edge technology. Read more. May 7, 2020: DPR Means Business at Clemson University DPR Construction recently celebrated reaching substantial completion on Clemson University's College of Business, which is redefining the center of the university's campus while creating a state-of-the-art think tank environment for the college's growing student population. Read more. December 3, 2019: Business in the 21st Century - Drywall brings innovation to Clemson University's new business school building. For nearly 30 years, DPR Construction has constructed projects with the high level of quality and innovation customers expect, and the relentless accountability they deserve. On Clemson University's College of Business in South Carolina, DPR wanted to set the standard for the dual-tower, 176,000 square-foot building. High-performance drywall provided the innovation, productivity and value needed to yield the best results. Read more. October 17, 2019: Elliott Davis bolsters support of Clemson by contributing to new business school building Elliott Davis, a leading business solutions firm with nine offices across the Southeast and a longtime employer of College of Business interns and graduates, is further investing in Clemson University's future by contributing $250,000 toward construction of the business school's new building. The contribution toward the 176,000-square-foot building currently under construction in the heart of campus, is in addition to the continuing support the Greenville-based company provides students and faculty. Read more. August 6, 2019: New business college on target for 2020 opening Clemson University is about to get its own version of the Spanish Steps as part of the new College of Business project. The $87.5 million 176,000 square-foot project is about 60 percent complete, according to project manager Paul Borick. The structure includes a South and a North Tower, divided by a connector walkway that runs from Douthit Hills, though the business building to Walter T. Cox Boulevard (Hwy. 93). Read more. January 2, 2019: Campus construction creates learning lab for tomorrow's builders and designers Teaming up with the University's Facilities department and the general contractors of major projects like the new College of Business facility, professors have been able to offer students real-world, hands-on experiences with the construction process that could never be replicated in a traditional classroom. Read more. December 17, 2018: New College of Business building Topping Out Ceremony The final steel beam was hoisted into place this month as the College of Business, DPR and LS3P celebrated a building milestone with the Topping Out Ceremony thanking the steel workers of Schuff Steel. August 23, 2018: Business school construction is MBA alum's dream project DPR Construction didn't have to look far and wide for a project manager for its work site overlooking historic Bowman Field on the campus of Clemson University. Justin Tetor ’11 MBA was first in line and "wasn't going to take no for an answer" for the general contractor's construction of the new College of Business building adjacent to Walter T. Cox Boulevard. Read more. June 7, 2018: Trees' legacy engrained in new business building by design Trees that once stood on the hillside across from Bowman Field are finding permanent residency in the design and functionality of the new building being constructed for Clemson University's College of Business. More than 6,500 board feet of mostly white and red oak reclaimed lumber is being put to a variety of uses in the business school's twin-tower, approximately 180,000 square foot building scheduled for completion in 2020. Read more. April 10, 2018: Earth is moving for Clemson's new home to business education More than 80,000 cubic yards of earth are being moved to create the footprint from which the College of Business' new home will rise at Clemson University. The twin-tower, 180,000-square-foot building will anchor a new north academic precinct along Walter T. Cox Boulevard that will one day occupy up to 600,000 to 700,000 square feet of building space for university expansion. Completion of the $87.5 million building is tentatively scheduled for 2020. Read more. Oct. 24, 2017: Clemson University breaking new ground for business education A 30-year wait and more than 2½ years of planning will culminate with a groundbreaking Friday for the new home to Clemson University's College of Business. The event that will change the face of business education and launch a new academic precinct on the Clemson campus will commence at 1 p.m., Friday in front of the Alumni Center, north of Walter T. Cox Boulevard. The groundbreaking for one of the biggest academic building projects in university history is open to the public. Read more. Sept. 25, 2017: Groundbreaking for business building set for October 27, 2017 New building workspace prototype created in Sirrine Hall With the glass, bricks and mortar still in the architect's rendering stage, the College of Business is moving forward with plans to break ground and assimilate occupancy of its new home, which will be constructed in the heart of Clemson University's campus. Groundbreaking is set for 1 p.m., Friday, Oct. 27, in front of the Alumni Center, north of Walter T. Cox Boulevard. The college's $87.5 million, 176,000 square foot building will nearly double Clemson University's business education space and become the anchor of a new academic precinct that will one day occupy up to 600,000 to 700,000 square feet of building space. Read more. May 3, 2017: New home for Clemson business school clears final hurdle Final approval has been given for construction of a new home for Clemson University's College of Business. Following approval by the State Fiscal Accountability Authority on Tuesday, work on one of the biggest academic building projects in school history is expected to begin this fall and be ready for occupancy in early 2020. The $87 million, 170,000-square-foot building across from Bowman Field will create a new academic precinct for future campus expansion and nearly double the space for business education at Clemson. Construction will be funded through state appropriations, private gifts and institutional bonds. Read more. Feb. 3, 2017: Trustees approve plans, bond requests for new Clemson buildings Clemson University trustees approved final phase plans and resolutions authorizing issuance of revenue bonds to construct a new academic building to house the College of Business and a new tennis center on campus. The business college will relocate from its current home in Sirrine Hall, which was built in 1938. Sirrine will be used for the university's ongoing maintenance and stewardship plan for older facilities. The proposed new 162,000-square-foot business building, scheduled to open in summer 2019, includes classrooms and learning laboratories, faculty and administrative offices, study and gathering spaces and common areas for greater collaboration among students, faculty, staff and business partners. Read more. Oct. 17, 2016: Business school building opens new door to campus Construction of a new building for the College of Business will redefine the center of Clemson University's campus while creating a state-of-the-art think tank environment for the college's growing student population. LMN Architects of Seattle is designing the 162,000-square-foot building in collaboration with the Greenville office of South Carolina-based LS3P, the architect of record. Construction is expected to commence in the summer of 2017 with completion tentatively set for the fall of 2019. Read more. April 10, 2015: Clemson trustees approve pre-concept plan for new campus building Clemson trustees have given pre-concept approval for university officials to move forward in evaluating plans to design a building to replace programming in Sirrine Hall on campus. Sirrine, which was built in 1938, currently houses College of Business and Behavioral Science and other academic programs. The replacement facility will become the home for all business and related disciplines. It will provide space for outreach and research institutes; a variety of classrooms and learning laboratories; faculty and administrative offices; and study and gathering spaces for collaboration among students, faculty, staff and business partners. Read more. Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Copyright © Clemson University Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business | 343 Chandler L. Burns Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3177 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson