Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Architecture (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT You consider yourself an innovator, a visionary, and most of all a student of design. You enjoy looking at buildings and spaces and thinking about what makes them great. You understand that architecture and the places it helps to shape will play a central role in our society in the decades ahead - creating solutions for many of the challenges facing us and answering questions about how we will live, work and play. You want to help find those answers; you want to design the future. At Clemson, you will join an intense, close-knit community of award-winning professors, gifted practitioners and motivated students. You will learn how to think with your hands and emerge ready to continue on to graduate school to become a licensed architect or enter the design profession. FAST FACTS The Lee Hall complex offers students an inspiring environment that elegantly blends historic and contemporary modern architecture. Our Fluid Campus offers study in Charleston, South Carolina; Genoa, Italy; and Barcelona, Spain, cultivating the understanding of diverse urban environments and cultures. The Clemson School of Architecture's reputation assures employers that our graduates are prepared and ready to hit the ground running. We are a design program that celebrates critical thinking as well as the craft of making and doing. We offer a culture of strong faculty-student engagement, with a focus on sustainability and healthy communities. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY At Clemson the undergraduate curriculum is conceptualized as fluid, broadening the education to allow students to transform into diverse, well-rounded and proficient critical thinkers and designers. The concept of fluidity builds upon the existing Fluid Campus where students are given the choice to study in Genoa, Italy; Barcelona, Spain; Charleston, South Carolina; or Clemson. Fluidity is also evident in the general education requirements where students choose a minor as well as a foreign language. Fluid is choice. Choice broadens experience and encourages students to shape their own educational path. Through every part of our curriculum, you'll be encouraged to tap into your creativity and learn to express that creativity in your approach to design projects. You will learn the basics of building design and construction, and lay the groundwork for pursuing a master's degree in architecture and other design fields. Your first five semesters of study focus on teaching foundational skills, which prepare you for the Fluid Campus. Courses in design, drawing and computer applications, as well as required courses in science, math, social sciences and the humanities give you a broad base to build upon in your advanced level classes. Computer integration in the design studios is emphasized in the second year. First- and second-year students study public speaking, making our students well prepared to speak professionally about their work. Accreditation Clemson's undergraduate architecture program is a pre-professional program. Clemson's graduate architecture program is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture. See full accreditation statement here. Curriculum Architecture, B.A. Popular Minors Art Business Administration Modern Languages Packaging Science Similar Majors Art (BFA/B.A.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Construction Science and Management (B.S.) Landscape Architecture (B.L.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM With every task you take on - inside and outside the classroom - you'll develop critical-thinking, research and analysis skills, and an ability to engage theory and culture with an understanding of how these forces work together in the built environment. Video See how Clemson is designing transformational leaders in architecture.Learn More » Barcelona In our Barcelona, Spain, program history meets modernity as you examine architecture through the lens of key social, political and historical movements, studying firsthand sites ranging from the iconic to the contemporary. Charleston The Clemson Design Center Charleston bridges academia and practice by teaching in a hybrid environment. Devoted to service learning, Charleston studios tackle urban design and fabrication projects. Genoa Clemson's Charles E. Daniel Center for Building Research and Urban Studies provides living, classroom and design studio space - as well as a home base for day trips and longer travels - in a 19th-century Italian villa. Library The Gunnin Architecture Library has more than 46,000 volumes of books and bound periodicals and 183 periodical subscriptions related to the fields of visual arts, design and building. Gallery/CVA The Lee Gallery and Center for Visual Arts located in Lee Hall provide a dynamic intellectual and physical environment where art is created, exhibited and interpreted.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS The American Institute of Architecture Students, Clemson Facebook page Clemson Architecture Student Organizations Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Junior Architect R2L Architects Junior Designer Equip Studio Entry-level Designer 5th Dimension Inc. Designer Osterlund Architects Junior Architect RPBW Architects RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Master of Resilient Urban Design Clemson University M.S. Historic Preservation University of Pennsylvania M.Arch. Harvard University Master of Real Estate Development Clemson University M.Arch. Columbia University COMMON CAREER AREAS Residential Architecture Commercial and Institutional Architecture Related Professional Urban Planning Real Estate Developing Contracting Property Assessment Landscape Design Product Design Graphic Design Interior Design Digital Fabrication Engineering Consulting Project Management Product Development and Marketing Law Writing and Journalism Set Designers Education Teaching Research Administration Information and Library Science Historic Preservation Architectural History Curating Architectural Conservatory Preservation and Restoration Research Historic Interior Design FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Architecture (B.A.) Art (BFA/B.A.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Construction Science and Management (B.S.) Landscape Architecture (B.L.A.)