Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Home About Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Welcome to the Fall International Orientation (IO) 2022 Page! We here in the Global Brown Center for International Students are so excited to welcome the Class of 2026 for the 2022-2023 academic year. What is International Orientation? International Orientation is a pre-orientation program for undergraduate international students to begin learning about Brown’s campus, academic and co-curricular offerings, as well as building relationships with other international students prior to New Student Orientation. Participating in International Orientation will allow international students to explore topics that are relevant to their experience, such as life in the United States, setting up a U.S. bank account or cell phone, immigration and employment resources, and navigating academics as an international student. More importantly, IO provides the opportunity for international students to begin building community and social support networks early in their college experience. Who facilitates International Orientation? International Orientation is facilitated by the International Mentoring Program, a cohort of current Brown students supervised by the Global Brown Center for International Students that offers peer mentorship support to incoming international students at Brown. Who can participate in International Orientation? Here in the Global Brown Center, we understand that “international” means many things. An international student can be an F-1/J-1 visa holder, a U.S. citizen or permanent resident who grew up or went to school outside of the United States, or a student who grew up in one or more countries outside their passport country! International Orientation is meant to support Brown students who have any of these experiences. If this sounds like a program that would be useful for you, you are welcome to register! Students who are on F-1/J-1 visas are required to attend IO. When is International Orientation? International Orientation will begin on Monday, August 29th, 2022 and end on Wednesday, August 31st, 2022. International students participating in IMP / International Orientation will be able to move in on Sunday, August 28th to ensure they can participate fully. How do I register for International Orientation? You may register for International Orientation here. This registration form will close on Friday, July 15, 2022. Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top