You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul University DePaul Shortcuts Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore About Academics Admission & Aid Student Life Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Rankings Campuses Chicago Events Mission President Administration Distinctions History & Timeline Accreditation & Licensure Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Degrees Continuing Education Career Success Academic Catalog Colleges & Schools Research Corporate Education Academic Affairs Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Immunization Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply Student Life Main Content Home Sweet DePaul Going to school at DePaul means living in Chicago (or very close if you're commuting). And Chicago has endless opportunities to play and learn. It's definitely big, but it's also known for Midwestern friendliness, a strong sense of community, and its ethnic diversity, food and culture. More about ChicagoHousing at DePaul Discover DePaul your way Here at DePaul, it’s not just about what you study. It’s also about the personal connections you make and the experiences you have outside of the classroom. Take the Virtual Tour Explore campus with a virtual tour of our Lincoln Park and Loop campuses. Learn more about the places where you'll take classes, meet friends, work out and more. Take the Virtual Campus Tour Life at DePaul Find out about student life at DePaul, including campus housing, social events, athletics, internships, life in Chicago and more. Discover Life at DePaul Campus Housing Learn more about our campuses in the city with an interactive tour of our residence halls, suites and apartments. Check out the housing tour What’s it really like to be a student here? Go straight to the source. See DePaul through the eyes of our students at @iamdepaul on Instagram. Maya Hi everyone! I’m a senior from Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, majoring in Biological Sciences. I’m the president of the Pathways Honors Society, treasurer for the Pre-Medicine Undergraduate Mentorship Program and was part of a team who presented at the Chicago Area Undergraduate Research Symposium (CAURS). I love exploring the city with my friends and going to concerts. I was also a Chicago Quarter (CQ) Mentor for two years. In this role, I taught the Common Hour portion of CQ classes, and helped guide freshmen through the transition into college. It’s been the favorite part of my college experience so far! See more @iamdepaul Something for everyone With all of the student groups, activities and opportunities offered at DePaul, there’s probably already a community waiting for you to join. And what doesn’t exist is easy to create. Student Organizations Make friends, expand your network and benefit your community in one of our student organizations. Learn more about our current groups and find out how to create your own. Explore 350+ student organizations Campus Events If you’re looking for something to do, we’ve got plenty of ideas. Attend a career fair, learn new skills, play games and sports, or hear from experts at a panel that interests you. Search for upcoming events Maya Hi everyone! I’m a senior from Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, majoring in Biological Sciences. I’m the president of the Pathways Honors Society, treasurer for the Pre-Medicine Undergraduate Mentorship Program and was part of a team who presented at the Chicago Area Undergraduate Research Symposium (CAURS). I love exploring the city with my friends and going to concerts. I was also a Chicago Quarter (CQ) Mentor for two years. In this role, I taught the Common Hour portion of CQ classes, and helped guide freshmen through the transition into college. It’s been the favorite part of my college experience so far! Stephanie Hey! My name is Stephanie. Fall quarter marks the beginning of my Senior year. I'm majoring in Public Relations and Advertising and minoring in Marketing. Aside from being a student, I am an active member of Alpha Sigma Alpha and have interned for several companies in Chicago. I love learning more about the PR/Advertising industry and networking. I'll show you what my experience here has been all about! Alma Hello! My name is Alma. I'm from a small town in Hawaii. And I'm a sophomore majoring in health sciences and minoring in applied psychology. Aside from being a student, I'm a proud sister of @chiodepaul, a writer for The Odyssey Online, and co-director of the Camp Kesem chapter here. Follow my adventures in Chi-town this summer! DePaul University Apply Request Info Visit Campus Directory 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 Library Athletics Careers Events facebooktwitterinstagram 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Student Life