Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Upcoming Events Newsletter Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Recent News 2021 DIAP Community Award Tue May 11 We are pleased that the Sheridan Center and Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows are the winner of the 2021 DIAP Community Award for an administrative department. These awards recognize Brown community members that used the Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) as a vehicle to actively create positive change within the university community. We are grateful to all of the Brown community members that partnered with us on our DIAP initiatives this past year, and we congratulate all of the winners! Read more Integrated Center for Teaching and Learning Wed Aug 5 Brown is renowned for exceptional and innovative approaches to teaching and learning, and the University is committed to advancing continued excellence. Given the increasing complexity and scale of Brown, and the importance of maximizing existing resources to fully support and enhance ongoing instructional development, I write to provide information about steps we are taking to create an integrated and robust center for teaching and learning at Brown. Read more Updates from the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Wed May 13 There are several pieces of good news at the Sheridan Center. While these changes took place in early 2020, we have delayed sending this communication due to other messaging that took priority in light of the COVID-19 crisis. Thank you for your patience! Read more Data Science Fellows Thu Apr 9 The Data Science Initiative featured the Data Science Fellows in one of its recent posts. Many of the Fellows have been working with faculty to support them as they pivot their courses to remote instruction in Spring 2020. Please see the article, "Students Help Bring Data Science Into Classrooms." Read more Teaching During Times of Disruption Fri Mar 6 Sheridan has created a new resource, Ways to Support Student Assignments During Times of Disruption. For reasons that include weather, travel, or illness, there are times when course plans need to be adjusted. This newsletter offers creative approaches to making these adjustments, through both lower and higher tech means. Read more Sheridan welcomes a new staff member, Jennifer Kim Mon Feb 24 Please help us welcome Jennifer (Jen) Kim, who recently started as English Language Specialist. Jen comes to Brown from Seoul National University of Science and Technology, where she was an Assistant Professor of English. Jen’s full bio can be found here. Read more Sheridan welcomes a new staff member, Linda Clark Wed Sep 4 Please help us welcome Dr. Linda Clark, who will be working with the Sheridan Center and the Data Science Initiative to support teaching and learning of data science across the curriculum. Linda comes to Brown from Central Connecticut State University, where she served as Associate Professor in Educational Leadership. Linda’s full bio can be found here. Read more Posts about Sheridan's work Fri May 3 https://iteachu.uaf.edu/object-based-teaching-and-field-trips/ Read more Sheridan welcomes a new staff member, Eric Kaldor Fri May 3 Please help us welcome Dr. Eric Kaldor, who has joined the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning as an Associate Director, with a focus on assessment, evaluation, and evidence-based teaching. Read more Sheridan welcomes a new staff member, Austin Jackson Wed Aug 15 Dr. Austin Jackson will join the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning and the Nonfiction Writing Program as Visiting Assistant Professor of English and the Assistant Director of the Writing Center. Read more Pages 1 2 next › last » News & Events Upcoming Events Newsletter The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top