Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Application Feedback Reapplying to SIPA Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Admissions How to Apply Applications for the upcoming calendar year will be available in late Summer. Each degree program has its own application deadlines and requirements, please review the programs' information carefully prior to applying. There is no separate application deadline for international students interested in applying to our programs. You are here Home Admissions All applicants are required to submit a completed application through our online Application Portal. While there is no separate deadline for international applicants, each degree program has its own application deadlines and requirements so review the information below carefully prior to applying. Please follow the instructions below to assemble and submit the online application. Note that the applicant must submit all materials directly, not through an agent or third-party vendor, with the sole exception of submissions by the U.S. Department of State’s Fulbright Program and its three partner agencies IIE, LASPAU and AMIDEAST, and by the Danish-American Fulbright Commission (DAF), Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD), and Vietnam Education Fund (VEF). In addition, the applicant will be required to attest to the accuracy and authenticity of all information and documents submitted to Columbia. If you have any questions about this requirement, please contact the admissions office at [email protected]. Failure to submit complete, accurate, and authentic application documents consistent with these instructions may result in denial or revocation of admission, cancellation of academic credit, suspension, expulsion, or eventual revocation of degree. Applicants may be required to assist the Admissions Committee involved in admission reviews in the verification of all documents and statements made in documents submitted by students as part of the application review process. Please note that the applicant may upload unofficial transcripts at the start of the application process. Once an applicant has been admitted and has indicated acceptance of our offer of admission, certified and secure electronic official transcripts must be submitted directly to Columbia from the applicant’s prior institution(s)’ Registrar Office. Columbia will use its verification vendor to verify the applicant’s degree and transcript with the prior academic institutions and/or the relevant country’s Ministry of Education. Moreover, students who plan to enroll at SIPA will be required to participate in a verification process. More detailed information will be provided upon admission. Deadlines MIA & MPA Spring 2022 Final Application: October 15 MIA, MPA, & MPA-DP Fall 2022 Early Action: November 1 Fellowship Consideration: December 20 Final Application: February 5 EMPA Spring 2022 Final Application: December 15 Fall 2022 Priority & Fellowship Consideration: March 31 Final Application: June 1 MPA-EPM Summer 2022 Early Action: November 1 Fellowship Consideration: January 15 Final Application: February 15 MPA-ESP Summer 2022 Early Action: November 1 Fellowship Consideration: January 15 Final Application: February 15 Executive Education: Partnership between SIPA and Inter-American Development Bank Macro-Financial Policy Making in Emerging Markets *This is a 5-day non-degree program geared towards professionals. Final Application: March 15, 2021 GPPN (Global Public Policy Network) Application Only for APPROVED international dual degree students who have completed their first year at a partner school. Final Application: February 14th, 2021. PhD in Sustainable Development Fall 2022 Final Application Deadline: December 16 Applications should be completed through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Application Checklist Some application checklist items will vary by program. Please review this list carefully. Essay questions (Personal Statement, Short Essay, and/or Optional Essay) Video Essay Professional Resume/CV Quantitative & Language Resume/CV Provides the Committee with additional information on your quantitative and language knowledge and proficiency. It should elaborate upon the skills you have developed related to quantitative methods and language learning. Letters of Recommendation (2 required and 1 optional for all programs; MPA-ESP requires 3 letters) Academic Transcripts (undergraduate and beyond) GRE/GMAT (optional in 2022) GRE school code: 2161 (no department code) GMAT school code: QF8-64-56 for MIA or QF8-64-99 for all MPA programs English Standardized Test Scores (international students only). Required if your native language is not English or if your undergraduate degree was not taught in English. TOEFL iBT: preferred 110, minimum 100 IELTS: preferred 7.5, minimum 7.0 Cambridge English: C1 Advanced/ C2 Proficiency: C1 Advanced, preferred 191, minimum 185 Optional Fellowship Essays (Essay prompts vary per program, but all applicants are eligible for select fellowships if they apply by the respective fellowship deadlines.) $95.00 USD non-refundable Application Fee OSAphotocontest-Spring2017(24).jpg Application Feedback Due to the large volume of requests, we are unable to offer individualized feedback to applicants until the summer. The following information addresses common suggestions we give to applicants who request feedback and wish to reapply. sipa-campus-outside-spring.gif Reapplying to SIPA SIPA welcomes applications from candidates who have previously applied for admission, regardless of the outcome. Applicants may re-apply a year after their initial application. Apply Now Connect with SIPA Attend an Information Session Request Information Meet a Current Student Application Status Subscribe to the Admissions Blog Download Brochure Connect with Admissions Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Share This Alum MIA - Joan Spero Video of Alum MIA - Joan Spero Alumni Spotlight SIPA gave me the tools to operate in many different professional backgrounds. Joan Spero MIA 68 Senior Research Scholar Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216