Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Announcing the 2022 Longhorn Research Poster Session Award Winners Students presented more than 180 research posters on interdisciplinary topics. Learn more about this year's winners. Congratulations to the Writing Flag Award Winners Learn about the winners of this year's Writing Flag Award, watch the ceremony, and read the winning pieces. The Sanger Learning Center is Hiring Earn money and gain valuable work experience while helping other students. Learn more and apply now. Assistant Dean Named Outstanding First-Year Student Advocate Patty Micks is a recipient of this year’s Outstanding First-Year Student Advocate Award. Learn more. NEWS See All News Apply: Vice Provost for Academic, Curricular and Career Innovation Summer Exploration Grant Recipient Gains Insight in Italy Listen to the TX512 Podcast on the First-Year Experience Program Use Wayfinder to Find Your Major and Create Your Future WHO WE ARE The School of Undergraduate Studies is the initial home for students exploring majors. In collaboration with an advisor and a career counselor, our students find their unique paths to graduation. We also oversee the undergraduate core curriculum and programs that strengthen the degrees of all UT students. Don't Miss Aug 21 Reading Round-Up 1:30pm to 3:00pm Classrooms all over campus see all EVENTS EXPLORE MAJORS Explore Core & Flag Requirements Internal Transfers Tutoring & Support Research Posters Placement Exams News DEPARTMENTS Vick Center for Strategic Advising Undergraduate Research Bridging Disciplines Programs Sanger Learning Center Skills & Experience Flags Signature Courses First-Year Interest Groups see all DEPARTMENTS EVENTS Reading Round-Up Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series Research Week Schedule of Annual Events © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy