Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dance PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dance PhD Apply Request More Info Dance PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Doctoral Audition Requirements Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Dance PhD The Dance PhD degree in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance offers a rigorous curriculum of coursework and research, culminating in an in-depth dissertation project. Critical theory seminars in culture, history, pedagogy and philosophy are interwoven with experiential methodology studies. PhD graduates pursue careers in artistic direction, choreography and performance, as well as advocacy, dance administration, entrepreneurship, teaching in higher education, research and writing. Boyer’s Dance PhD degree program is one of four in the country, and its curriculum is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Dance. Over four to six years, you’ll study dance as aesthetic behavior, a mode of inquiry and social communication, and a performing art. The curriculum emphasizes cultural, historical, and philosophical perspectives of dance and the body; dance learning and teaching across the life span; and performance theory and practice. Boyer’s Dance faculty represent an array of research areas and specialties, including aesthetic, artistic, educational, ethnographic, historical, phenomenological and sociological modes of inquiry in dance. Faculty have performed at nationally known institutions such as Kariamu & Company: Traditions, the Martha Graham Dance Company, Metropolitan Opera Ballet and Pearl Lang Dance Company. Learn more about Dance PhD faculty members and their areas of study. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover dance faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer dance degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Some of the core courses during the term of this degree will have a centralized focus in Black Performance; Bodies Texts, History; Dancing the Popular; Educational Inquiry in Dance; Experience, Engagement, Multi-Sensory Inquiry; and Neoclassicism and the Baroque Revival in 20th Century Dance & Culture. Learn more about the required courses for the Dance PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Dance MA Dance MFA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Karen Bond is the chairperson and interim coordinator of graduate studies in the Dance Department. Phone: 215-204-6280 Email: karen.bond@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-DANC-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dance PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Doctoral Audition Requirements Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info