Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Medical School Celebrates 2022 Graduates at In-Person Ceremony May 19, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email VP&S Class of 2022 graduates On May 18, the VP&S Class of 2022 celebrated graduation with friends and families at the first in-person graduation ceremony since the COVID pandemic began more than two years ago. The ceremony honored 148 students who received MD degrees from VP&S and 77 students who received PhD degrees in biomedical sciences from Columbia’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Mary T. Bassett, MD’79, MPH, commissioner of the New York State Department of Health, delivered the graduation address. “Throughout your training, you have not seen hospitals in a ‘normal' state," said Bassett. “But that’s not necessarily a bad thing. The lens through which you see your medical career unfold is forever altered in a way that must question what, exactly, does normal mean. Because when you do that—when you keep questioning, rather than accepting the status quo—that’s when you can start to trigger real change. Change that leads to better health care and better health beyond the hospital walls.” This summer, the school’s MD graduates will disperse across the United States to begin their residency training. The most popular residencies for the VP&S Class of 2022 are internal medicine, psychiatry, obstetrics & gynecology, pediatrics, orthopedic surgery, and surgery. “You now embody our aspirations for our future,” said Katrina Armstrong, MD, dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, as she greeted the graduates. "Aspirations that as you move forward in these sacred professions, you will forever lead us in compassion, in honest reckoning with our failures and our history, and, perhaps most importantly, in hope. In hope for a better and more equitable world where every child has the opportunity for a long and healthy life and every patient receives the health care they deserve." Faculty awards Several faculty members received awards for service, teaching, research, or humanism: Salvatore DiMauro, MD, the Lucy G. Moses Professor Emeritus of Neurology: VP&S Distinguished Service Award in Basic Science John Schullinger, MD, professor emeritus of clinical surgery: VP&S Distinguished Service Award in Clinical Science Alyson Fox, MD, associate professor of medicine at CUMC: Charles W. Bohmfalk Award for Pre-Clinical Years Gina Badalato, MD, assistant professor of urology at CUMC: Charles W. Bohmfalk Award for Clinical Years Anita Darmanian, MD, associate professor of medicine at CUMC: Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award David D. Ho, MD, the Clyde’56 and Helen Wu Professor of Medicine and professor of microbiology & immunology: Stevens Triennial Prize Samuel Sternberg, PhD, assistant professor of biochemistry & molecular biophysics: Doctor Harold and Golden Lamport Research Award in Basic Sciences Kelley Yan, MD, PhD, the Warner-Lambert Assistant Professor of Medicine (Columbia Center for Human Development) and assistant professor of genetics & development: Doctor Harold and Golden Lamport Research Award in Clinical Sciences Rachel J. Gordon, MD, MPH, associate professor of medicine and epidemiology at CUMC: Distinguished Teacher Award given by the Class of 2022 Photos of the VP&S Class of 2022 Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top