UH by the Numbers - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH By the Numbers Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH by the Numbers Home Enrollment Tracking Student Applications, Admissions, and Enrollment Admit and Yield Rates Class Profiles Student Enrollment Class Enrollment Detail Student Data Enrollment Trends Semester Credit Hours New Student Profile Financial Aid UH Locations Student Success Student Degrees Retention and Graduation Undergraduate SCH Completion Graduate and Professional SCH Completion Faculty External Data US News Texas Almanac Advancement UH by the Numbers Overview Welcome to By the Numbers, the University of Houston’s source for comprehensive data about university characteristics, operations, and productivity. This dashboard is designed to support strategic, evidence-based decisions related to the activities below. NOTE: The data contained on this website is available for University of Houston faculty and staff only. A valid CougarNet ID and password is required to log in and view this data. For publicly available institutional data, please visit the Institutional Research website at http://www.uh.edu/ir/. For Internet Explorer 11 users: This site is not supported. Please view using the Firefox or Chrome browsers. Enrollment Tracking Choose Data Student Applications, Admissions, and Enrollment Admit and Yield Rates Class Profiles Student Enrollment Class Enrollment Detail Weekly reports on admissions and the enrollment of new and continuing students for upcoming academic terms compared to past years. Student Data Choose Data Enrollment Trends Semester Credit Hours New Student Profile Financial Aid UH Locations Trend data on student enrollment, semester credit hours, new student profiles, financial aid and locations. Student Success Choose Data Student Degrees Retention and Graduation Undergraduate SCH Completion Graduate and Professional SCH Completion Student performance trend data including degrees awarded, retention and graduation rates, and semester credit hour completion. Faculty View Data Faculty trends by rank, tenure and demographics. External Data Choose Data US News Texas Almanac Comparison data of the University of Houston and other institutions. Advancement View Data Data on UH fundraising and alumni engagement. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies