Skip to main content Restrict my search to Undergraduate Student Success Center Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Student Success Center UH Home Undergraduate Student Success Center Undergraduate Student Success Center Challenger Program Exploratory Studies LAUNCH Testing Services Transfer Advising Program (TAP) TSI Navigate Enrollment Ready! Major Match Undergraduate Student Success Center Welcome to the Undergraduate Student Success Center (USSC) at the University of Houston! The USSC is a coordinated network of resources focused explicitly on the goal of undergraduate student success. The Challenger Program supports first generation college students through specialized programming, supplementary advising, and campus-wide resource connections. Exploratory Studies is a short-term preparatory major designed to provide undeclared students with resources to guide them in making confident, informed career and academic decisions. Exploratory Studies intentionally integrates academic support with career counseling toward the goal of transitioning students to a good fit major in which they will thrive and graduate on time. LAUNCH (Learning Advancements for UNdergraduate Cougars of Houston) lets your success take off, with Peer Tutoring for over 100 separate courses, Success Workshops, and Individual Academic Coaching. UH Testing Services coordinates, proctors, and assesses a variety of exams related to admission, placement, credit attainment, and licensing. Advisors in TAP (Transfer Advising Program) smooth the transition to the University of Houston for prospective undergraduate transfer students. The TSI (Texas Success Initiative) ensures that students are college-ready in Math and English Language Arts and Reading. EAB Navigate is our seamless network for student success for students and staff. Enrollment Ready! and Major Match offer self-service guidance for students to review and prepare requirements. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies