ABOUT THIS PROJECT THE SNOW STORY GIVING GENERAL INFORMATION MULTIMEDIA CONSTRUCTION UPDATES “We are very grateful to the Snow family for their continued support of Clemson. Campus recreation is a big part of the Clemson student experience, and their gifts have helped provide even more opportunities to lead a healthy lifestyle while having fun.” - President James P. Clements The Snow Family The Division of Student Affairs is committed to providing a top-tier student experience, and the development of a unique location on campus is a critical step in reaching that goal. Dave and Lynette Snow recognized not only a need for new facilities, programs and services that would transform the recreational and wellness experience for Clemson students but also a need for adequate space due to a growing campus community. It was the type of recognition that led to a major gift in the form of $2.4 million — the largest gift to the university from non-Clemson alumni — that set an ambitious, revolutionary project into motion in October 2014. The Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex allows students to take advantage of a rare resource not often found on other college campuses, a beautiful lake. The Snow Complex provides students with opportunities to take part in experiential learning, competitive sports and play, student employment, lake activities such as kayaking and swimming, internships and leadership. The Intramural and Club Sports programs can play later into the evening, providing students with more free time during the day for study, work or attending class. The Clemson Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) program will be able to offer additional services and provide modern facilities to host their skills training, rental facilities and pre-trip meetings. With lights and up-to-date restroom accommodations at the Snow Complex, student organizations can host bonfires and other late-night, alcohol-free programming centered around student engagement and socialization. The LoConte Family Field — courtesy of a substantial gift from Mike and Janet LoConte — comprised the first phase of the project. The field covers 100,000 square feet and was completed in September 2015. The LoContes are members of the Vice President’s Executive Council. The championship field turf space, covering an additional 140,000 square feet, opened for Intramural and Club Sports participation in February 2019. The most recent addition to the complex opened in January 2020. The Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center, named in memory of a former Bridge to Clemson student, is a 16,500-square foot facility that serves as home to the Clemson Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) program. The facility was named after a $2.2 million gift from Don and Hayden Quattlebaum, Andy’s parents. Project History Project History October 2014 Dave and Lynette Snow announce the lead gift of $2.4 million to support student recreation programs and areas on the property formerly known as Y Beach. September 2015 The LoConte Family Field opened, providing Intramural and Club Sports with its first synthetic turf space. September 2016 The Snow Family announced it would match up to $1 million in funds raised to support the project. The “Snow Challenge” was met in 2019. February 2019 The Championship Field opened, providing 140,000 square feet of synthetic turf field space for Intramural and Club Sports. January 2020 The Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center, covering 16,500 square feet of dedicated outdoor recreation and educational space, was formally named. CONTACT Division of Student Affairs 202 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC © 2020