Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving homepage alt="the silhouettes of students at commencement" Congratulations, Class of 2022! Watch the Graduation Ceremony ICRM CRA and CRM Certifications Students in the MSIS program can now apply completed course work toward examination credit for records management certifications. Our Partnership with ICRM Diversity & Inclusion We value diversity and are dedicated to providing an inclusive environment for students, faculty, and staff of all backgrounds. Our Commitment to Social Justice Become an iSchooler Our students learn how to think critically, make connections, and utilize empathy to help shape the future of information and technology. iSchool Admissions Research at the iSchool Our research crosses disciplinary divides, bridges the arts and the sciences, and applies human insights to technological advances. Explore Research Upcoming Events Prospective Student Online Information Session Friday June 24, 1 to 2 p.m. Prospective Student Online Information Session Friday July 8, 1 to 2 p.m. Prospective Student Online Information Session Friday Aug. 12, 1 to 2 p.m. All Events Latest News May 11, 2022 2022 Open House Award Winners April 12, 2022 iSchool Inclusion Institute (i3) Announces Move to the Texas iSchool Feb. 15, 2022 Texas iSchool Welcomes First Assistant Dean for DEI, Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz Dec. 1, 2021 iSchool Partners with the Institute of Certified Records Managers to Fast Track Graduates’ Certification More News See all news Why the iSchool? "I was able to take a wide range of courses within the School of Information, but also had the opportunity to take many classes outside of the program to really support my interdisciplinary career goals–and even personal goals." - Hali Hoyt, Offering Manager, IBM Meet Our Alumni We are Bridgers: Connecting People, Information, and Technology At the School of Information, we are changing the future by engaging the present and preserving the past. Research and teaching at the iSchool changes the ways that we interact with information and technology, changes how information can make the world a better and fairer place, and changes the ways we protect and preserve our collective memory. About the iSchool Recent Research Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann Collaborate on $3M NSF NRT Grant on Ethical AI iSchool faculty members Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann are collaborating with UT faculty at the School of Architecture, Cockrell School of Engineering, and Department of Computer Science on a $3M NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) grant. Doctoral fellows will complete coursework in Ethical AI, including courses in Human-AI Interaction and Ethics of AI at the iSchool, as well as participate in a seminar on Ethical AI, have opportunities for professional development, participate in professionally relevant community service activities, and be eligible for internships. Read more Ahmer Arif Researches Inclusive Digital Literacy for NSF Convergence Accelerator Program The iSchool's Ahmer Arif will co-lead a research project that aims to reimagine how digital literacy and critical reasoning skills are taught. “Co-designing for Trust: Reimagining Online Literacies With Underserved Communities” is a multidisciplinary collaborative effort with researchers at the Moody College of Communication and the Center for an Informed Public at UW as well as other local institutions in Texas and Washington state. The research team was selected as part of the National Science Foundation’s Convergence Accelerator 2021 cohort. Read More Amelia Acker Researches COVID Data Infrastructures Dr. Amelia Acker, an assistant professor at the iSchool, and a team of researchers are currently studying the challenges in producing and maintaining critical COVID-19 data infrastructures. Funded by grants from the National Science Foundation, the Ford Foundation and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, Acker investigates in The COVID Data Infrastructure Builders project how community membership, work practices, and technical tools serve to support knowledge production about the COVID-19 crisis. Read More Tweets School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool Congratulations, graduating iSchoolers! We are so proud of all you've accomplished during your time at the iSchool.… https://t.co/bCfjgZb8k1 1 week ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool We are excited to celebrate our graduating iSchool students tomorrow. Congratulations, class of 2022! 🤘… https://t.co/Y8rSsNO83K 1 week ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool The late civil rights leader and philanthropist Ada Anderson will be among the thousands of graduates who will be h… https://t.co/VKycrmnUzu 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool Congratulations to @jr_bautista_15, @cbtrace, @jameshodges_, and master's student Liz Bender! https://t.co/H5V6ucEtQU 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet star School of Information - UT Austin UTiSchool Congratulations to our 2022 Open House Award winners! - Dean’s Choice Award Winner: Vanesa Ayon - Diversity & Inclu… https://t.co/7JYka4zRow 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet star Accreditations and Memberships ala-accredited.jpg ischools-organization-logo.png UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022