Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Romance Languages and Literatures Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Romance Languages and Literatures The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures offers both majors and minors in French, Hispanic Studies, and Italian, each of which affords a wide exposure to international culture and literature in the target language. The major offers solid preparation and guidance for students interested in teaching or in graduate studies and serves as an important foundation for work in many diverse fields such as law, medicine, interpreting, politics, publishing, and international business, to name only a few. The minor is a strong complement to other major programs at Boston College, offering linguistic proficiency as well as the analytic fundamentals of written and visual culture. To learn of the, in fact, numerous areas of employment in which mastery of a second language and culture gives you valuable, necessary skills and, indeed, a competitive edge, see Foreign Language Careers. Unless otherwise stated, all courses are taught in the target language. French Courses Hispanic Studies Courses Italian Courses RLRL Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Faculty Romance Languages and Literatures Website French Studies Hispanic Studies Italian Studies Study Abroad Guidelines and Policies Getting Started Core Offerings: Literature and Cultural Diversity The Departmental Honors Program Undergraduate Research Positions French Studies A French Studies major assures exceptional competence in French, allowing students to work extensively and closely with literary and cultural artifacts that language makes possible. Building on their linguistic proficiency consolidated in the language program, majors expand that proficiency to a wide variety of French texts. This training exercises and assures our students' ability to analyze texts and contexts, as well as to conceive, articulate, and defend an original idea. French Studies minors reap similar benefits, albeit to a lesser extent, by attaining linguistic proficiency and taking at least two 4000-level courses. Language Courses for the Major and Minor Students begin the program at the level most appropriate for their linguistic proficiency. Contact Prof. Andrea Javel (andrea.javel@bc.edu) for guidance about placement. French Studies majors and minors may begin their program with Conversation, Composition and Reading I (FREN2209) or II (FREN2210). Print Open All Close All French Studies Major Requirements French Studies Major Requirements 30 Credits (ten 3-credit courses), which must include: 12 credits (four 3-credit "foundation" courses) to be chosen from among the following categories:* FREN3305 Wordplay: Introduction to Drama and Poetry FREN3306 Introduction to Narrative Forms FREN3307 Masterpieces of French Literature FREN3308 Advanced Language Studies in French FREN3309 Topics in French Culture and Civilization *Note that the specific titles of the courses that fall within these “foundation categories” change from year to year (though not the course number); however, students can only take one course in each category. 12 credits (four advanced courses) in French language, literature, or culture at the 4000 level or above. 6 credits (two elective courses) to be chosen among the following: FREN2209 and FREN2210 French Conversation, Composition and Reading I and II (as entry-level courses only) Additional courses in French Studies at the 3000 or 4000 level Related courses with departmental permission Notes and Conditions French Studies majors are required to enroll in at least one advanced course (4000 level or above) each semester of their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the ten-course requirement for the major. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the major. Maximum total transfer credit toward the major from study abroad: 15 credits (five 3-credit courses) for one year of study; 9 credits (three 3-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the French Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in French; (2) of the sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of French-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. French Studies majors who transfer 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the major in the department. Students who do not study abroad may take up to two courses related to their major program of study outside the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, with departmental permission. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the French Studies section. French Studies Minor Requirements French Studies Minor Requirements 18 Credits (six 3-credit courses), which must include: 6 credits (two foundation courses) to be chosen from among the following categories*: FREN3305 Introduction to Drama and Poetry FREN3306 Introduction to Narrative Form FREN3307 Masterpieces of French Literature FREN3308 Advanced Language Studies in French FREN3309 Topics in French Culture and Civilization *Note that the specific titles of the courses that fall within these “foundation categories” change from year to year (though not the course number); however, students can only take one course in each category. 3 credits (one advanced course) at the 4000 or 7000 level 9 credits (three elective courses) to be chosen among the following: FREN2209 and FREN2210 French Conversation, Composition, and Reading I and II (as entry level courses only) Additional courses at the 3000 or 4000 level in French Notes and Conditions French Studies minors must enroll in at least one advanced course (4000 level and above) during their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the six-course requirement for the minor. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the minor. Maximum total transfer credit toward a minor from study abroad: 9 credits (three approved 3-credit courses) for one year of study; 6 credits (two approved 3-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the French Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in French; (2) of the sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of French-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. French Studies minors who transfer 9 credits (three 3-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the minor in the department. All courses for the French minor will normally be in French, though one relevant course taught in English may be counted toward the minor with permission from the French Section. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate studies in consultation with the French section. Hispanic Studies A Hispanic Studies major assures exceptional competence in Spanish, allowing students to work extensively and closely with literary and cultural artifacts that language makes possible. Building on their linguistic proficiency consolidated in the language program, majors expand that proficiency to a wide variety of Hispanic texts. This training exercises and assures our students' ability to analyze texts and contexts, as well as to conceive, articulate, and defend an original idea. Hispanic Studies minors reap similar benefits, albeit to a lesser extent, by attaining linguistic proficiency and taking at least two 6000-level courses. Language Courses for the Major and Minor Students begin the program at the level most appropriate for their linguistic proficiency. Advanced, heritage, and native speakers of Spanish can seek advisement to determine where to enter the program from any of the Spanish Language Coordinators or Assistant Coordinators or any professor in the Hispanic Studies program. Non-native Spanish speaking majors and minors may begin the program with Conversation, Composition and Reading II (SPAN2216) or Advanced Spanish (SPAN3392). Strong students who have taken Conversation, Composition and Reading II (SPAN2216) whose reading, speaking, and writing skills qualify as advanced are not required to take Advanced Spanish (SPAN3392), but may do so if appropriate. Note that linguistic proficiency equivalent to Advanced Spanish (SPAN3392) is a prerequisite for Contextos (SPAN3395) and Contextos: Introduction to Textual Analysis (SPAN3395) is a prerequisite for all upper-level courses (SPAN6000 and above). Print Open All Close All Hispanic Studies Major Requirements Hispanic Studies Major Requirements 30 Credits (ten 3-credit courses), which must include: 3 credits (one course) in SPAN3395 Contextos 12 credits (four advanced courses) at the 6000 level in literature and culture, which must include at least one course in each of the following categories: Pre-1800 Peninsular literature and culture Pre-1900 Latin American literature and culture Post-1800 Peninsular literature and culture Post-1900 Latin American literature and culture 15 credits (five elective courses), which may be chosen from: SPAN2216 Spanish Conversation, Composition, and Reading II (as entry-level course only) SPAN3392 Advanced Spanish Additional courses at the 3000 or 6000 level in Hispanic Studies Related courses with departmental permission Notes and Conditions Hispanic Studies majors are required to enroll in at least one 6000 level course each semester of their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the ten-course requirement for the major. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the major. Maximum total transfer credit toward the major from study abroad: 15 credits (five 3-credit courses) for one year of study; 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the Hispanic Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in Spanish; (2) of the sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of Spanish-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. Hispanic Studies majors who transfer 9 credits (three 3-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the major in the department. Students, who have taken SPAN3392 Advanced Spanish, will not receive credit toward the major for language or proficiency-building courses taken abroad. Students who do not study abroad may take up to two courses related to their major program of study outside the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, with permission of the Hispanic Studies section. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate studies in consultation with the Hispanic Studies section. Hispanic Studies Minor Requirements Hispanic Studies Minor Requirements 18 Credits (six 3-credit courses), which must include: 3 credits (one course): SPAN3395 Contextos 6 credits (two advanced courses) at the 6000 level in literature and culture 9 credits (three elective courses), which can be chosen from: SPAN2216 Spanish Conversation, Composition, and Reading II (as entry-level course only) SPAN3392 Advanced Spanish Additional courses at the 6000 level in Hispanic Studies Notes and Conditions Hispanic Studies minors must enroll in at least one 6000 level course during their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the six-course requirement for the minor. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the minor. Maximum total transfer credit toward the minor from study abroad: 9 credits (three approved 3-credit courses) for one year of study; 6 credits (two approved 3-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the Hispanic Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in Spanish; (2) of the sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of Spanish-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. Students who have taken SPAN3392 Advanced Spanish will not receive credit toward the minor for grammar or proficiency-building courses taken abroad. All courses for the Hispanic Studies minor will normally be in Spanish, though one relevant course taught in English may be counted toward the minor with permission from the Hispanic Studies Section. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the Hispanic Studies section. Italian Studies An Italian Studies major assures exceptional competence in Italian, allowing students to work extensively and closely with literary and cultural artifacts that language makes possible. Building on their linguistic proficiency consolidated in the language program, majors expand that proficiency to a wide variety of Italian texts. This training exercises and assures our students' ability to analyze texts and contexts, as well as to conceive, articulate, and defend an original idea. Italian Studies minors reap similar benefits, albeit to a lesser extent, by attaining linguistic proficiency and taking at least two advanced courses. Language Courses for the Major and Minor Students begin the program at the level most appropriate for their linguistic proficiency. For advisement about elementary and intermediate level placement, contact Prof. Brian O’Connor (oconnobc@bc.edu). For advisement at the post-intermediate level, contact Prof. Mattia Acetoso (acetoso@bc.edu). Italian Studies majors and minors may begin their program with Conversation, Composition, and Reading I (ITAL2213) or II (ITAL2214). Print Open All Close All Italian Studies Major Requirements Italian Studies Major Requirements 30 Credits (ten 3-credit courses), which must include: 18 credits (six advanced courses) in Italian literature or culture (5000 level and above) 12 credits (four elective courses) to be chosen from the following: ITAL2213 and ITAL2214 Italian Conversation, Composition and Reading I and II (as entry-level courses only) Additional courses at the 3000, 5000 or 8000 level Related courses with departmental permission Notes and Conditions An Advanced Placement high school course in Italian with an exam score of 4 or 5 will count toward the Italian Studies major as one 3-credit elective. Italian Studies majors are required to enroll in at least one advanced course (5000 level and above) each semester of their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the ten-course requirement for the major. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the major. Maximum total transfer credit toward the major from study abroad: 15 credits (five 3-credit courses) for one year of study; 9 credits (three 3-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the Italian Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in Italian; (2) of the sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of Italian-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. Students who transfer 9 credits (three 3-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the major in the department. Students who do not study abroad may take up to two courses related to their major program of study outside the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, with departmental permission. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the Italian Studies section. Italian Studies Minor Requirements Italian Studies Minor Requirements 18 Credits (six 3-credit courses), which must include: 6 credits (two foundation courses): ITAL2213 and ITAL2214 (Italian Conversation, Composition, and Reading I and II) 6 credits (two advanced courses) in Italian Literature or Culture at the 5000 level or above (courses for undergraduates) 6 credits (two elective courses) in Italian Literature or Culture at the 3000 level or above Notes and Conditions An Advanced Placement high school course in Italian with an exam score of 4 or 5 will count toward the Italian Studies minor as one 3-credit elective. Italian Studies minors must enroll in one advanced course (5000 level or above) during their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the six-course requirement for the minor. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the minor. Maximum transfer credit toward a minor from study abroad: 9 credits (three approved 3-credit courses) for one year of study; 6 credits (two approved 3-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the Italian Studies minor will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in Italian; (2) of the sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of Italian-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. All courses for the Italian Studies minor will normally be in Italian, though one relevant course taught in English may be counted toward the minor with permission from the Italian Studies section. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the Italian Studies section. Study Abroad Guidelines and Policies The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures strongly encourages all of its students to study abroad, both to strengthen their linguistic skills and to benefit from the experience of living in another culture. Majors and minors in French, Hispanic Studies, and Italian interested in study abroad should consult with the appropriate program director. For a general overview of semester and academic-year study abroad programs and to apply, visit the Office of Global Education. Although most study-abroad courses can count towards the general elective requirement for graduation, students should be aware that not all the courses offered by study-abroad programs available to BC students are automatically acceptable toward the RLL major or minor or BC graduation requirements. No RLL credit will be granted for courses taken abroad conducted in English, except for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty (in which case a maximum of three credits are transferrable). Credit is not automatically granted for courses taken in the target language. Courses must show a direct relationship to the student’s program of study. In order to earn credit in an RLL major or minor, courses must be in the target language, show a direct relationship to the student's program of study in the department, and have a level of sophistication comparable to departmental offerings. Students are encouraged to seek credit for courses in other disciplines, such as (but not limited to) economics, political science, communications, and history, from appropriate Boston College departments. Students are urged to consult with the Director of Undergraduate Studies for pre-approval of any courses they would like to transfer into a major or minor in French, Hispanic Studies, or Italian. This should happen before departure or on-site abroad before enrollment. Students who seek approval only after they return from abroad risk not receiving Romance Languages and Literatures credit for courses taken abroad. Upon return, students should meet with the Director of Undergraduate Studies to obtain the appropriate signed forms. To schedule an appointment with the Director of Undergraduate Studies, contact the Romance Languages and Literatures Department, Lyons 304, 617-552-3820; rll@bc.edu. For further information about Study Abroad requirements, please consult our department website. Transfer of Credit from Study Abroad Romance Languages and Literatures majors may earn credit for up to three courses (9 credits) toward their major in a single semester of study abroad, and credit for up to five courses (15 credits) in a year-long program. Courses must be related to textual and cultural analysis and must be in the target language. Majors who transfer 9 credits or more (three 3-credit courses) from study abroad into their RLL major must take their remaining courses in the department. Romance Languages and Literatures minors may earn credit for up to two courses (6 credits) toward their minor in a single semester of study abroad, and credit for up to three courses (9 credits) in a year-long program. Courses must be related to textual and cultural analysis and must be in the target language. For more detailed information about study abroad credit transfer, visit the Romance Languages and Literatures Study Abroad web page. For further information or to declare a major or minor, please contact the Romance Languages and Literatures Department, Lyons 304; rll@bc.edu. Getting Started Students who plan to major or minor in Romance Languages and Literatures should consult the Director of Undergraduate Studies to review their qualifications, establish correct placement within the program, and organize a course of study suited to their individual needs and objectives. Information for First-year Majors and Non-majors Students considering a major or minor in Romance Languages and Literatures are welcome to contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies to discuss how the program might relate to and enhance their career and life objectives (rll@bc.edu). Students who have not already fulfilled the language proficiency requirement through an achievement or advanced placement test should sign up for an appropriate language course. Placement tests in French and Spanish are available. For the placement exam in Italian, please contact Professor Brian O'Connor (oconnobc@bc.edu). The RLL Department offers courses, some taught in the target languages and some in English, that satisfy University Core requirements and also earn credit in the major or minor. Students interested in advancing their major credits at the early stages of their careers are encouraged to take these Core courses. Core Offerings: Literature and Cultural Diversity All the courses offered in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures explore the culture and literature of countries around the world where French, Italian, and Spanish are spoken. In addition, the department has created a number of courses for inclusion in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Core, both Literature and Cultural Diversity, which are designed for non-specialists. Literature Core Core offerings, whether in the target language or in translation, treat texts in their full linguistic, artistic, and cultural contexts. Literature Core courses offer students close exposure to great narrative arts, whether visual or written, under the guidance of a professor sensitive to their original language. Comparative literature courses introduce students to the interplay of artistic forms and themes across national boundaries. In order to achieve an intimate understanding of the texts studied, all Core courses propose close reading and thorough discussion of a limited number of texts. For a list of courses that satisfy the Literature Core requirement, visit bc.edu/core. Cultural Diversity Core The curriculum of Romance Languages and Literatures offers courses that treat the cultures of people around the world who speak French, Spanish, and Italian, including western Europe as well as Hispanic and Francophone cultures in the Caribbean, South and Central America, Africa, and Asia. Students can choose from a number of courses that focus on these cultures in order to satisfy the Cultural Diversity Core requirement. For a list of courses that satisfy the Cultural Diversity Core requirement, visit bc.edu/core. The Departmental Honors Program The Honors Program offers RLL majors a unique opportunity to conduct research and write a thesis on a topic of their choice, under the guidance of a faculty member in the department. Students admitted into the program will work throughout the senior year with their Thesis Director. To be eligible, candidates must be declared majors in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures with a grade point average of 3.6 or higher. No more than 9 credits must remain for completion of the major in their senior year. Candidates must also have exhibited the maturity and self-discipline that long-term independent work requires. Faculty members will nominate students for the Honors Program in April of their junior year. Nominated students will be invited to meet with the Program Coordinator during the semester preceding their enrollment in the program. The final decision about acceptance into the program will be made during the first week of registration. For complete details, please read the RLL Honors Program Guidelines available on the Romance Languages and Literatures website. After consulting the guidelines, interested students should contact their current RLL instructor to inquire about nomination to the program. Undergraduate Research Positions Departmental faculty regularly obtain university funding for undergraduate majors and minors to work on research projects with them during a set number of hours per week. Interested students should contact their current professor or the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College