Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Information about SMU NetIDs Information about SMU NetIDs We are pleased to announce the SMU NetID, a single sign on solution that will allow SMU CAPE students to use the same username (NetID) and password across CAPE systems like your student portal and CAPE Canvas. Starting December 1, 2021, all new SMU CAPE student accounts will automatically be assigned an SMU NetID, which is an auto-generated username based on your first and last initials plus a random 4-digit number (ex. John Smith's SMU NetID: js1145). If your account was created prior to December 1, 2021, you will need to transition your account to use an SMU NetID. This will allow you to log in to your student portal and CAPE Canvas using the same username (NetID) and password. See the transition instructions below. Transitioning Your Existing Account Reset Your Password Recovering Your NetID Transition your existing CAPE student account It's easy to transition your existing CAPE student account to the new SMU NetID, please follow the steps below to get started: Navigate to the CAPE Student Portal login page: https://go.smu.edu/student-portal Log in using your existing student user name and password. (if you do not remember your username and password, use the forgot username/password links shown below.) Once logged in, click "My Profile" in the student portal menu on the left (shown below) Check your student profile and update any out-of-date information. Once you are done, click the "Transition to SMU NetID" Button (shown below) Next, you will receive an e-mail from comanage_noreply@smu.edu with an invite link to validate your e-mail address, click the invite to set your password and complete your transition to your SMU NetID. If you do not see the message in your inbox, PLEASE CHECK YOUR SPAM FOLDER Once your password is set, you will receive a second e-mail containing your SMU NetID. It is very important that you remember your SMU NetID as this will be used to access your student portal and Canvas going forward. Return to the CAPE Student Portal login page: https://go.smu.edu/student-portal and log in using your new SMU NetID (shown below) Log in to your Student Portal with your new SMU NetID and the password you just set (If you need to reset your password again, click the Forgot Password link. See below) If you are enrolled in a course that uses Canvas, you will be able to log in to Canvas using your SMU NetID 30 minutes after transitioning your account by visiting our Canvas login page and clicking "Login with NetID" (See below) If you experience any issues or need assistance with transitioning your account, please reach out and one of our team members and we will be happy to assist. You can contact us by e-mailing us at smuthink@smu.edu or calling us at 214-768-2273. Reset your SMU NetID Password To reset your SMU NetID password, visit the password reset page and enter your e-mail address, NetID or CAPE Student Number (X-Number) to request a password reset link. (see below) If you experience any issues or need assistance with resetting your password, please reach out and one of our team members will be happy to assist. You can contact us by e-mailing us at smuthink@smu.edu or calling us at 214-768-2273. Recovering your NetID When your account is created or transitioned to an SMU NetID an e-mail containing your SMU NetID was sent to you. If you cannot find it and need to look it up, please reach out and one of our team members and we will be happy to assist. You can contact us by e-mailing us at smuthink@smu.edu or calling us at 214-768-2273 Need Help? 214-768-HELP help@smu.edu Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook