Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton scientists achieve new clarity in visualizing the quantum realm Tom Garlinghouse for the Department of Physics Feb. 23, 2022, 2:33 p.m. Princeton physicists have peered deeper than ever before into the quantum realm of electrons — and what they are seeing is providing greater insight into how electrons behave collectively. In a paper recently published in Science, a team led by Ali Yazdani describes how the strong interactions between electrons in graphene, a material with a single layer of carbon atoms, drive them to form a crystal structure with a complex pattern determined by what's known as quantum superposition — electrons residing at multiple atomic sites at the same time. Illustration of two sites of graphene lattice. Image courtesy of the researchers “Previous studies have shown that graphene demonstrates novel electrical properties,” said Yazdani, the Class of 1909 Professor of Physics and director of the Center for Complex Materials at Princeton University. “But never before have researchers been able to peer so deeply and with such spatial resolution into the nature of quantum states.” This pattern corresponds to a structure first recognized in the 1860s by chemist August Kekulé, with alternating single and double bonds. In a single bond, one electron from each atom binds with its neighbor electron; in a double bond, two electrons from each atom participate. The experiment also shows that this novel quantum crystal hosts exotic deformations that correspond to the twisting and winding of electrons’ wavefunction. In one remarkable finding, "they found a ‘vortex’ in the Kekulé pattern, which is like a hurricane around which the phase-angle winds around by 12 hours [as on a clock],” said Michael Zaletel of the University of California, Berkeley, a co-author on the paper. “When making predictions about such quantum, nanoscale, objects, you rarely think you’ll have the pleasure to really ‘see’ a picture of them, but the group has been able to do just that." This item has been abridged from the full story available on the Dean for Research website. A vortex of Kekule pattern. The left panel shows the change of Kekule pattern in space. The bottom right panel illustrates the texture of the vortex extracted from the left panel that resembles a hurricane. Image courtesy of the researchers Related Stories ‘Magic’ angle graphene and the creation of unexpected topological quantum states Read more Unmasking the 'magic' behind one of physics’ recent mysteries Read more Experiments explore the mysteries of 'magic' angle superconductors Read more Where's the glue? Scientists find a surprise when they look for what binds in superconductivity Read more Unusual quantum liquid on crystal surface could inspire future electronics Read more Fast and curious: Electrons hurtle into the interior of a new class of quantum materials Read more Princeton scientists discover chiral crystals exhibiting exotic quantum effects Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice