COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Education - Physical Education (PreK-12), Major MajorEducation - Physical Education (PreK-12) All Programs College of Applied Studies Human Performance Studies Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts (BA) in physical education—PreK-12—combines quality, accredited classroom instruction with hands-on learning in a state-of-the-art human performance lab. You’ll also gain practical teaching experience in Kansas’ largest school district—preparing you for a successful career working with children through the promotion of health and fitness. Learn how physical education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Applied Studies, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For admission into the physical education program, you must also meet the teacher education admission requirements. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Turn your passion for healthy lifestyles into a career A degree in physical education can help you turn your passion for healthy lifestyles and working with kids into a rewarding career. The program combines innovative curriculum and applied learning opportunities in the largest most diverse school district in Kansas while preparing graduates for teaching careers at both the elementary and secondary levels. Curriculum The physical education and teaching curriculum comprises 83-84 hours and are taught within the departments of Human Performance Studies and Curriculum and Instruction. The curriculum includes student teaching in local schools. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor’s degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and prepares you to pursue an advanced education degree. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Exercise Science Exercise Science (Minor) Sport Management Sport Management (Minor) Health Science 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©