Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services SAS Home Student Accessibility Services About Our Office SAS coordinates and facilitates services for students (including graduate students) and visitors with medical, physical, psychological, and learning disabilities. Students (including graduate students) who may need accommodations or services due to a disability or medical condition should contact Student Accessibility Services to discuss their needs and begin the registration process. Disability related requests for accommodations and services are evaluated individually, based on documentation and completion of the registration process. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, an individual with a disability is defined as a person who "has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities of such an individual; has a record of such an impairment; or is regarded as having an impairment." Services for students with disabilities are provided by many offices of the University and are coordinated through SAS. The SAS office is also available to meet with any student who may be wondering if they have a disability and seeking an evaluation or additional information to assist them. Employee accommodations are through Human Resources. Employees can contact them via [email protected] with questions. Office Hours Student Accessibility Services at Brown University Box P | 69 Brown Street, Suite 512, 5th floor. Page-Robinson Hall Academic Year Hours: Monday to Friday, 8:30 am to 5 pm Summer Hours: Monday to Friday, 8 am to 4 pm Contact Information Phone Number: 401-863-9588 Email Address: [email protected] Mailing Address: Brown University Student Accessibility Services Box P | 69 Brown Street, Suite 512, 5th floor Providence, RI 02912 Link to campus maps Link to accessibility maps SAS Staff Jennifer Agudelo Program Coordinator [email protected] Jennifer leads the Exams team and assists the team with the day-to-day workflow of accommodation requests. She has a dual BS degree from University of RI in Communications Disorders and Spanish, an MA from Salve Regina University in Rehabilitation Counseling, and is certified as a Rehabilitation Counselor. In prior roles, Jennifer served as an Accommodations Lab Assistant and later as a Disability Student Services Program Coordinator at Community College of Rhode Island. Additionally, for over nearly a decade Jennifer has been in the roles of Direct Support Professional and Job Coach Coordinator at a non-profit community agency supporting adults with differing abilities. Fluent in Spanish and American Sign Language, Jennifer enjoys spending time with family, going to the beach and working on her house. Karen Andrews Director [email protected] With over 12 years of experience, Karen is a visionary leader in disability services in higher education ensuring compliance with federal laws, state regulations and University-wide and campus guidelines related to equal access, barrier elimination, and resources and services for disabled students. Karen’s work extends nationally as she serves on the Board of the Association for Higher Education and Disability (AHEAD) as a Director-at-Large, is the current AHEAD Board liaison to the Knowledge and Practice Communities and is the former chair for the organization’s Race, Ethnicity, Diversity and Disability Special Interest Group. Karen earned a BS in Elementary and Special Education from Northern Arizona University and a MA in Adult Education and Development from Strayer University. Tara Greenwood Administrative Coordinator [email protected] Tara joined the team in 2018. She provides overall operational administrative and reception support to the SAS office. Serving as the central point of contact, she plays a critical role in cultivating an inclusive and welcoming campus community. In her role, Tara, assists students, faculty, staff and visitors with disability related inquiries and requests for accommodations and services. She registers applicants, schedules appointments to meet with a SAS member, and converts materials to accessible alternate format. Currently, Tara serves on the President's Staff Advisory Council (SAC) 2018-2019 at Brown, and is also pursuing her Associate Degree in Business at CCRI. She enjoys spending time with her family, volunteering in the Brown community, cooking, and has a love for music and pop culture. Erin Karalekas Administrative Coordinator Erin_Karalek[email protected] Erin is a RI native who has been at Brown for 25 years. She began in the Residential Life Office in 1992 and then joined the SAS Office in 2000. She received the Presidential Achievement Award for Service in 2001, the Campus Life Excellence Award for Service in 2012 and the Excellence Award for Diversity in 2016. Erin's responsibilities consist of scheduling ASL interpreting and CART for students, assisting with disability related parking accommodations, connecting the Brown community to the SAS shuttle, processing financials, note providing support and maintaining/updating our database. Erin enjoys spending time with her family, traveling, listening to music and attending sporting events. Desirae Mix Assistant Director [email protected] Originally from Boston, Desirae began her career at Suffolk University then onto Brandeis University with a focus on integrating technology and universal design to reshape the way we look at academic inclusion. With a passion for technology, case law and policy, she enjoys teaching and collaborating with folx who share an interest for supporting the intersectional needs of those who identify as having a disability. She provides support for both Undergraduate and Graduate students, and currently serves as the Graduate School Liasion. Desirae holds a B.S. in Business Management / Marketing Science and Information Technology from UMASS Boston and a M.Ed. in Administration in Higher Education from Suffolk University. Desirae is an artist, played roller derby for the Boston Derby Dames and used to competitively train in martial arts. Michelle Montelongo ASL Interpreter, RID/NAD IV [email protected] (Bio to come) Jesús Rēmigiō Associate Director [email protected] Jesús has been a longtime resident of Rhode Island. His educational background is: a Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Science, a Master in Business Administration with a concentration in International Business, and a Doctorate in Leadership/Organizational Development. Throughout his life he has seen and experienced much oppression and discrimination due to the “disability” of not being able to hear. In his position at Brown he will have budgetary and managerial responsibilities and his collaboration and engagement with staff and students will be focused on maximizing opportunities for all members of the community. Accessibility, equity, and inclusivity will be the guiding principles of his efforts. Feedback for SAS We at SAS care about consistently supporting the Brown community around concerns and needs regarding accessibility. Throughout the year, new needs may arise or current concerns may change. We are dedicated to continuously working towards improving our services and hearing about what our community would like to see. If at any point you have feedback for us or would like to address an issue with us, please feel free to email [email protected] at any time with the subject line "SAS Feedback: (specific topic)." We appreciate any time or effort taken to help us improve the work we do. Home FAQ Important Notices Getting Around Campus Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide