Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of the President About Mission & Strategic Plan University Governance Communications Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About the President About President Hardgrave Meet the First Lady Take Action Review Presidential Communications Meet Key Leaders Contact the Office of the President Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Office of the President About Meet Dr. Hardgrave Dr. Bill Hardgrave was named the 13th President of the University of Memphis on Nov. 9, 2021, and began his tenure on April 1, 2022. Hardgrave served as Auburn University’s Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs since January 2018. He was dean of Auburn’s Harbert College of Business from August 2010 through December 2017. As the chief academic officer, Hardgrave led Auburn’s 12 colleges and schools, including the College of Veterinary Medicine and School of Pharmacy, while overseeing academic resources, support units and instructional and research programs. He led initiatives designed to promote student and faculty success and ensured the quality of student learning at the graduate and undergraduate levels. In addition, he managed the procedures for faculty recruitment, appointments, promotions and tenure. As dean of the Harbert College of Business, Hardgrave oversaw significant growth in student enrollment, undergraduate and graduate programs, resources for students and faculty and research advancements. The college experienced unprecedented levels of philanthropic support under his leadership as he secured the then-largest donation in the history of Auburn University with a $40 million gift from Raymond Harbert in 2013. Harbert and his wife, Kathryn, also contributed an additional $15 million in 2016 in support of a graduate business building. Hardgrave launched the Auburn University RFID (radio frequency identification) lab, Geospatial Research and Applications Center and the Center for Supply Chain Innovation. He also oversaw the creation of a Business Analytics undergraduate major, a PhD program in Finance and an online MS in Finance. The Harbert College of Business received external validation of its academic programs, including Top 10 national rankings for programs including undergraduate Supply Chain Management, online MBA, online Master of Accountancy and online MS in both Finance and Information Systems. Prior to Auburn, Hardgrave was the Bradberry Chair in Information Systems in the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the University of Arkansas from 2001-10 and was the executive director of the Information Technology Research Institute, which he established in 1999. He also founded and directed the University of Arkansas’ RFID Research Center from 2005-10. Hardgrave has published five books and more than 85 articles in leading journals such as MIS Quarterly, Production & Operations Management, Journal of Management Information Systems and the European Journal of Information Systems. His research has been cited in the Wall Street Journal, CNN, BusinessWeek and The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, among others. He has been awarded two patents. In recognition of his contributions, Hardgrave has received the Ted Williams Award from AIM Global as the most influential researcher in the field of RFID and the Special Achievement award from the RFID Journal for his overall impact on the field. A highly sought-after speaker, he has delivered nearly 200 invited talks worldwide to a total audience of more than 35,000. Hardgrave received a B.S. in Computer Science from Arkansas Tech University in 1987; an MBA with an emphasis in Computer Information Systems from Missouri State University in 1990 and a PhD in Management Information Systems from Oklahoma State University in 1993. Hardgrave and his wife of 33 years, Ronda, have two children, Rachel, 26, and Gavin, 20. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.