Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Undergraduate Programs What is Sociology? Sociology is the study of how groups and individuals interact in producing social systems. Sociologists study the norms, values, identities, power structures and institutions through which societies are organized. Sociologists have long been particularly concerned with the gap between the ideal of legal equality and the reality of social inequality. Sociology at Brown The Department of Sociology supports several undergraduate concentrations, tracks and certificates: A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track Migration Studies Certificate Engaged Scholarship Certificate The Department of Sociology offers a comprehensive set of introductory and advanced courses through which students can acquire a range of research and theoretical skills. The department also offers a range of courses in 6 areas (pillars) where we have significant strengths: Globalization and Development; Race, Class, Gender and Inequality; Urban Sociology; Sociology of the Environment; Organizations and Economic Sociology; Population, Health and Family. (Pillars and courses can be found here.) If you're interested in sociology, connect online with one of our undergraduate concentration advisors. Students part of the concluding Engaged Scholars Program can view program information here. Life after Brown Sociology prepares students for a variety of lives after graduation, including conventional careers from market research to social advocacy, and from journalism to program administration in government and civil society. It also prepares people for opportunities in the new economy, including those that address how people engage the environment and use information technology. Our graduates also continue their formal education in a variety of post-graduate areas, including law, social work, health sciences, and sociology. Here's what some concentrators from the classes of 2012-2016 reported they were doing in their first year after graduation: Employment Co-Founder & Operations Manager, Uplift - Online Communities Against Sexual Violence Alumni Coordinator, College Match Digital Production Associate, Trilogy Interactive Legal Assistant, Immigration Center for Women & Children Sales & Analytics, Bloomberg LP Account Executive, DigitasLBI CEO, Co-Founder, Logim Solutions S.L. Field Manager, The Fund for the Public Interest Investments - Sales Coordinator, Hartford Funds Junior Associate, Arkwright Consulting Marketing Analyst, AthenaHealth Research Associate, Abt Associates Business Analyst, Deloitte Consulting LLP Marketing Associate, DigitasLBi Research Intern, Maternova Research Impact Assessment and Impact Strategy, Teach for Bulgaria Graduate School Brown University, MAT, Education Columbia University, PhD, Sociology Columbia University Teachers College, Applied Physiology Columbia University, MA, Sociology University of Pennsylvania, PhD, Sociology Warren Alpert Medical School, MD University of California, Los Angeles Law School, JD University of Kentucky Law School, JD New York University Law School, JD Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top