COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Exercise Science Section Menu College of Applied Studies Our Mission Degree Programs Human Performance Lab Meet the Faculty & Staff Scholarships Contact Us Turn your passion for health and exercise into a career If you are interested in careers involving exercise physiology, physical therapy, health promotion, clinical exercise-related fields, rehabilitation, medicine, biology of exercise, research and academia, or graduate education in health-related fields, consider a major in exercise science at WSU. Students gain real-world experience in the high-tech Human Performance Lab. As a student, you'll work alongside faculty and be fully supported as you pursue a project or niche that suits your interests. Learn more about WSU's Human Performance Lab Exercise Science Program The exercise science program at WSU combines quality curriculum, high-tech research facilities and hands-on training in real-world environments. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared to pursue an advanced degree—and for high-demand careers in a wide range of settings such as health care, the fitness industry and community-based programs. Applied learning opportunities in both the classroom and community Built-in elective hours allow for personalization Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Exercise Science Program Description The degree requires a minimum of 120 credit hours, with 56 credit hours of courses within the major. You’ll study the natural sciences and human anatomy. Then, you’ll move on to more focused courses such as kinesiology, exercise and sport nutrition—and your required field practicum and internship. Admission Requirements Prospective WSU students: Please click here to complete the online admission application. There is no additional application for the exercise science program. Current WSU students: WSU students with a 2.00 GPA can change their major to exercise science through the myWSU portal (Home tab > Student Tools > Change My Major /Minor). We also encourage you to meet with an academic advisor in the program. To schedule an advising appointment, please contact the College of Applied Studies Advising Center at (316) 978-3300, option 2. Degree Plans Please know that these are sample degree plans. If you would like an academic advisor to create a degree plan for you, please contact the College of Applied Studies Advising Center at (316) 978-3300, option 2. Exercise Science Checksheet & Degree Plan Cost Tuition and Fees Learn more about tuition and fees at Wichita State. Tuition Discount Programs WSU offers tuition discounts for out-of-state students paying nonresident tuition. Find out more about tuition discounts at WSU. WSU Merit Scholarships Students admitted to WSU are automatically considered for merit scholarships. Merit scholarships are awarded to both incoming freshman and transfer students. Learn more about merit scholarships at WSU. College of Applied Studies Scholarships Both prospective and current exercise science majors are eligible for scholarships through the College of Applied Studies. Only one application is necessary to apply for all scholarships available to students in the College of Applied Studies. Complete the College of Applied Studies Scholarship Application. Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's in Exercise Science Program Description The Accelerated 4+1 Bachelor's to Master’s program in Exercise Science is specifically designed to prepare qualified students for graduate level work in Exercise Science through a coordinated accelerated program leading to both a Bachelor of Arts in Exercise Science and a Master’s of Education in Exercise Science. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared for high-demand careers in a wide range of settings such as health care, the fitness industry and community-based programs. Admission Requirements Prospective WSU students: Please click here to complete the online admission application. Students with a minimum 2.75 GPA are eligible to apply for the Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's degree program their junior year of college. Current WSU students: Students with a minimum 2.75 GPA are eligible to apply for the Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's degree program their junior year of college. We also encourage you to meet with an academic advisor in the program. To schedule an advising appointment, please contact the College of Applied Studies Advising Center at (316) 978-3300, option 2. Degree Plans Degree plans for the Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's degree program are coming soon! Cost Tuition and Fees Learn more about tuition and fees at Wichita State. Tuition Discount Programs WSU offers tuition discounts for out-of-state students paying nonresident tuition. Find out more about tuition discounts at WSU. WSU Merit Scholarships Students admitted to WSU are automatically considered for merit scholarships. Merit scholarships are awarded to both incoming freshman and transfer students. Learn more about merit scholarships at WSU. College of Applied Studies Scholarships Both prospective and current exercise science majors are eligible for scholarships through the College of Applied Studies. Only one application is necessary to apply for all scholarships available to students in the College of Applied Studies. Complete the College of Applied Studies Scholarship Application. Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Exercise Science Program Description A Master of Education (MEd) in exercise science from Wichita State combines quality curriculum, high-tech research facilities and hands-on training in real-world environments. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared for high-demand careers, in a wide range of settings, from education and health care to the fitness industry and community-based programs. Admission Requirements Admission to the master’s degree program in exercise science requires students to have completed an undergraduate degree from a regionally accredited institution and have a grade point average of at least 2.750 (4.000 system) in all coursework including any postbachelor’s graduate work in accordance with university graduate school admission policy. Curriculum The Master of Education (MEd) in exercise science may be earned in one of three ways: Thesis option (34 credit hours) Internship option (36 credit hours) Coursework option (36 credit hours) The thesis option requires an oral examination. The internship and coursework options require a written comprehensive examination. Internships take place in a wide variety of exercise facilities, health organizations and amateur and professional athletic facilities. Cost Tuition and Fees Learn more about tuition and fees at Wichita State. Tuition Discount Programs WSU offers tuition discounts for out-of-state students paying nonresident tuition. Find out more about tuition discounts at WSU. Graduate School Awards The Graduate School accepts nominations on behalf of Graduate Faculty members for Annual Student Awards. The Graduate School also offers a Part-Time Student Award and other awards based on financial need and other considerations. Learn more about Graduate School awards. College of Applied Studies Scholarships Both prospective and current exercise science majors are eligible for scholarships through the College of Applied Studies. Only one application is necessary to apply for all scholarships available to students in the College of Applied Studies. Complete the College of Applied Studies Scholarship Application. Links and Resources Advising Meet the Faculty & Staff Contact Us Department of Human Performance Studies 1845 Fairmount St., Box 16 Wichita, Kansas 67260 stacy.johnson@wichita.edu Office: (316) 978-3340 Fax: (316) 978-5451 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©