Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Government Relations UW Spokane Center UW Video KUOW KEXP Staff Contacts Office of External Affairs Office of External Affairs Menu Government Relations UW Spokane Center UW Video KUOW KEXP Staff Contacts Home Office of External Affairs OUR WORK The Office of External Affairs is responsible for influencing public policy and opinion, communicating about the university priorities, challenges and achievements and strengthening the university’s reputation and public perception. Units include the offices responsible for government and community relations at the federal, state, regional and Spokane/Eastern Washington levels, television production and radio and an executive and administrative staff. From the VP: 2022 legislative session preview January 10, 2022 External Affairs In the immortal words of the 70’s rock band Emerson, Lake and Palmer, “Welcome back my friends to the show that never ends.” Yes, the 2022 Washington state legislative session begins this week and like last year, it will again be conducted primarily remotely. A virtual session — like all pandemic pivots — presents its… Read more From the VP: Exciting opportunities in Spokane October 29, 2021 Randy Hodgins When you think about where the University of Washington is making an impact, Spokane might not be the first place that comes to mind. You might instead picture our extensive west side purple and gold presence, particularly on our Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. However, the UW actually has a long history in the Lilac… Read more Honoring Indigenous People's Day October 11, 2021 External Affairs The University of Washington acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land that touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations. To learn more about the land you live on, we recommend consulting Native Land. Indigenous People's Day is a celebration and honoring of the past,… Read more From the VP: Exciting news for cancer care and research July 16, 2021 Randy Hodgins Earlier this week UW Medicine, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (Fred Hutch), Seattle Cancer Care Alliance (SCCA) and Seattle Children’s announced a new approach to providing world-class cancer care and cancer research in the Pacific Northwest. Under this new plan, Fred Hutch and SCCA would merge, forming the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center (FHCC), an independent,… Read more From the VP: When the pandemic separated us, KUOW and KEXP kept their communities connected, informed and entertained June 4, 2021 Randy Hodgins Photo credit:KEXP- Renata Steiner, KUOW Fifteen months ago, the world dramatically changed when the first COVID-19 case in the U.S. was discovered right here in the state of Washington. Nearly every industry was disrupted as our nation struggled to contain the virus. In this unimaginable year of a public health crisis, upheaval in society and… Read more External Affairs Government Relations UW Spokane Center UW Video KUOW KEXP Staff Contacts Read the latest from the VP RANDY'S BLOG Resources About External Affairs (PDF) Economic Impact Report 2021 Federal Agenda 2022 State Legislative Agenda (PDF) 2021 Fast Facts Staff Resources Stay Connected Follow @UWGOV on Twitter Like UWGOV on Facebook We're on Instagram Contacts Randy Hodgins Vice President rhodgins@uw.edu 206-616-8965 Media inquiries Please contact UW News 206-543-2580 External Affairs on Twitter @UWGOV The University of Washington is closed Monday, May 30, in honor of Memorial Day. We hope you will take a moment today to recognize those who made the ultimate sacrifice as well as the families and friends they left behind. https://t.co/3QfLZeCvDN @UW On Memorial Day, we recognize those who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country. These monuments on the UW campus in Seattle, many of which are located along Memorial Way, honor their memory. #MemorialDay https://t.co/mBEEpMFqib Retweeted by @UWGOV @uwnews Did you know if you are Black, you are 50% less likely to find a bone marrow match than if you are white? @UW Prof @AlexesHarris shares her story and why it's so important for people of color to join the bone marrow registry. https://t.co/MUoB4tFBLo https://t.co/LuRKGZQLdf Retweeted by @UWGOV @UWGOV Huskies, don’t forget! The #UdistrictStreetFair is this weekend, May 21 - May 22, in Seattle’s U District. Find unique artist and craft booths, great food and more. Times: Sat, 11am-7pm; Sun, 11am-6pm. Brought to you by @udistrictpartnership @udstreetfair #udistrictseattle https://t.co/YOHiiROpk0 More University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA