Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Public Administration, BS Serve Communities By Implementing Positive Change and Shaping the Future Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Public Administration, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Lead a Fulfilling Career Through Building Public Interest and Social Equity The BS in Public Administration program at UCF focuses on both a theoretical and application approach, ensuring that you have the technical skills and theoretical knowledge to help organizations such as government agencies and nonprofits advance the interests of the public. Through your courses, explore the fundamental elements of public management, fiscal management and public policy. You’ll demonstrate an understanding of how policies are implemented and how to mitigate potential challenges caused by policies, specifically related to government agencies. As a public administration major, you are also required to complete a minor. Choose from minors including emergency management and homeland security, urban and regional planning, nonprofit management or another program offered outside of the School of Public Administration (which must be approved by the undergraduate program coordinator). Classes are offered face-to-face at UCF Downtown, mixed-mode and online. This provides you with the flexibility and convenience needed to balance school, work and life. Upon graduation, you will be prepared to gain entry-level employment in a variety of environments including government, nonprofits, and think tanks or other nongovernmental organizations. Positions related to this field often include managing government or organizational operations, anticipating and evaluating public needs, and implementing policies and programs to support a community and its residents. Highlights The public administration program requires an internship that provides students an opportunity to gain first-hand experience working in public-focused organizations such as nonprofits or municipal, county, state or federal government. Our international dual degree program allows students to pursue a BS/BA in nonprofit management from UCF and a BS in public administration from a university in Lithuania. The job outlook for public administration-related careers is projected to grow 7 percent through 2028. The median annual pay for public administration-related careers is $66,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview The Administration of Public Policy Explore problems of values, interests, and objectives and their impact on the administration of public programs, stressing the interplay between social values, policies and administration. Human Resource Administration Learn the history, operating components, structural characteristics and increasing impact of laws and related sanctions on personnel practices of public agencies. Fiscal Management Analyze methods of securing public funds, the process of budget making, and techniques of management used in managing public funds. View All Public Administration Courses You’ll Take A combination of coursework, applied learning and student association participation provides opportunities for students to demonstrate and articulate the public service values of integrity, benevolence, fairness and social justice. After mastering the competencies of each discipline, students will ‘be good’ at the work they do. Through the development and adherence to public service values, students will ‘do good’ in the communities they serve.” — Stephanie Krick, Ph.D., UCF associate lecturer and academic program coordinator Public Administration Skills You’ll Learn Analyze policy issues and problems, articulate relevant decision-making criteria for policy analysis and evaluate alternative policy solutions. Manage complex projects for a local government or nonprofit agency. Demonstrate a leadership approach that considers public interest and social equity and how they are reflected in governmental fiscal administration. Perform analysis and evaluations of data, reports, contracts, etc. Evaluate the effectiveness of compensation models, benefits packages and evaluation methods toward attracting competent and qualified personnel. Support the process of preparing and implementing annual budgets. Perform research and analysis of local, state and federal legislation and public policy issues. Research, draft and edit a variety of products, reports and publications to advance the organizational mission. Career Opportunities Outreach Coordinator Program Analyst Budget Analyst Grants Coordinator Research Associate Public Information Specialist Government Affairs Associate Public Administration News Check out more stories Community UCF Student Reflects on Pulse Shooting 4 Years Later Graduate criminal justice student Zoe Williamson was visiting from England and on a police ride-along when she stepped up to assist first-responders and victims at… Alumni Alumna at the Ready to Help Orlando Airports in Emergencies Public administration graduate assists aviation authority to earn ‘gold seal’ in preparedness and crisis management. Research New UCF Project Will Put Downtown Orlando Air Quality Data in Residents’ Hands More than 100 air sensors will be installed throughout Downtown Orlando and will provide near-real-time data about air quality to residents via smart devices. Alumni UCF Grad Lands Emergency Management Job After Hurricane Experiences After working with the local and state government to manage crises, the soon-to-be alum will use her expertise to help with hospital operations. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Public Administration (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Undergraduate Programs Academic Services Coordinator: TBA The School of Public Administration provides the highest quality undergraduate education for students interested in working in the public and private sectors, as well as, nonprofit organizations. The school strives to achieve local, state and national prominence through contemporary curriculum, innovative instruction, scholarly and applied research, and community service. Programs and services develop and enhance management skills essential to public and nonprofit organizations oriented towards an evolving metropolitan environment. The school offers an undergraduate program leading to a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Public Administration. The program provides opportunities for students to prepare for employment as public administrators and produces graduates with the public management skills and analytical techniques needed for successful careers in government, nonprofit and related business fields. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program and the Common Program Prerequisites before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor on a regular basis. Students must earn at least a "C-" in each course accepted as a common program prerequisite and Core Requirement (see sections 2, 3, and 4 below). No transfer course will be accepted with a grade lower than a "C-". The courses designated in sections 1 (General Education) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must earn a 2.5 GPA in the major (all PAD Courses) in order to graduate. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 3 Total Credits Complete at least 1 of the following: STA2014 - Principles of Statistics (3) STA2023 - Statistical Methods I (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 33 - 36 Total Credits Complete all of the following Core requirements must be completed with a minimum GPA of (2.5) to satisfy the major. Complete the following: PAD3003 - Public Administration in American Society (3) PAD3733 - Professional Administrative Writing in the Public Sector (3) PAD4034 - The Administration of Public Policy (3) PAD4104 - Administrative Theory (3) PAD4204 - Fiscal Management (3) PAD4414 - Human Resource Administration (3) PAD4720 - Research Methods in Public Administration (3) PAD4941 - Public Administration Internship (3 - 6) PAD4131 - Public Sector Project Management (3) PAD4822 - Intergovernmental Administration (3) PAD4886 - Capstone: Public Service Leadership (3) PAD4942 - School of Public Administration Internship Orientation Restricted Electives 24 Total Credits Earn at least 24 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Required Minor or Certificate 18 Total Credits Earn at least 18 credits from the following types of courses: Students must complete a minor or certificate from the School of Public Administration offered at UCF. Choose from: Emergency Management and Homeland Security; Nonprofit Management/National Certification in Nonprofit Management or the Certificate in Nonprofit Management; and Urban and Regional Planning , or other minor approved by the Undergraduate Program Director, excluding the minor in Public Administration. The minor cannot overlap with any other major requirement, PAD Core or BS required course. Students pursuing a minor outside the School of Public Administration must complete a minimum of 18 credit hours within that minor. Should that minor not require 18 credit hours the student must fulfill the 18 hour minor requirement by completing courses within the field of public administration. B.A./B.S. Option 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Students pursuing the BA degree must demonstrate proficiency in a foreign language equivalent to one year in college. ASL I, II can also be used to fulfill this requirement. Students pursuing the B.S. degree must complete two additional upper-level Public Administration courses. Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD4886 - Capstone: Public Service Leadership (3) Grand Total Credits: 87 - 90 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida