By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Libraries, Collections & Galleries More from this Section Commencement Online Programs Schools & Colleges Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Majors & Minors Academic Administration Centers & Institutes Research Syracuse Abroad Calendars Opportunities & Support Departments Syracuse University Global Libraries, Collections, and Galleries Research, creative expression and experiential learning are integral to the student experience at Syracuse University. Our vast libraries, research collections, museums and galleries provide you with endless opportunities for discovery and personal growth. Libraries Featuring quiet study spaces, group meeting rooms, wireless access, 24/7 assistance, and 4.8 million items, Syracuse University Libraries support research and scholarship throughout campus and beyond. Bird Library, for humanities, social sciences, audiovisual resources, government publications, maps, the Learning Commons, special collections and archives (see below), and library administration Carnegie Library, for natural sciences, mathematics and statistics, engineering and computer science, library and information science, nutrition and health, photography, technical arts, and military and naval sciences King + King Architecture Library, for architecture course reserves, current periodical titles and reference works Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library, to reflect the African American Studies curriculum, while illuminating the culture and life of black people You'll find more than just books and journals at our libraries. Resources such as assistive technology, research guides, public workstations, loaner technology, printers and copiers are also available to help you succeed at Syracuse. Collections The Special Collections Resource Center (SCRC) is home to Syracuse University's rare printed and archival materials, including original manuscripts, photographs, artwork, audio recordings, and much more. Open to students, faculty, staff, and visitors, the SCRC provides an in-depth look, not only at the history of Syracuse University, but also at topics ranging in time, format, and academic interest. Classic Catalog (printed materials) University Archives (archival collections) Digital Special Collections (digitized materials) Belfer Audio Archive (audio materials) Museums and Galleries The Coalition of Museum and Art Centers (CMAC) at Syracuse University showcases the University’s holdings, academic research in the arts, and art community resources by exploring the visual and electronic arts through exhibitions, publications, public presentations, education and scholarship. CMAC brings together the programs, services and projects of several different art centers and museums in the campus community in an effort to expand the public’s awareness, understanding, appreciation and involvement in the visual and electronic arts. Syracuse University Art Museum Light Work Community Folk Art Center Point of Contact Featured Stories Caught by Album Cover Art at the Belfer Audio Archive An image jumps out at you. You study it, turning the album jacket over while listening. The image is paired with album reviews. You see it framed on walls. It can be simple, intricate, weird. Historian Uncovers Firsthand Account of 1800s Slum Life A long-forgotten manuscript in the Special Collections Research Center gives a rare firsthand account of a street kid’s view of immigrant slum life in the late 1800s. Videos Welcome to the Libraries Wet Book Rescue The Blackstone LaunchPad Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy