Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Office of General Counsel » Ethics Set Navigation title in component Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Ethics The Office of General Counsel provides legal guidance to the University regarding compliance with Ohio’s Ethics Law. As a state institution of higher education organized under Section 3361 of the Ohio Revised Code, the University and its employees are generally subject to the Ethics Law. The following are some of the ethics topics that are frequently relevant for the University and its employees, along with information that is addressed in further detail on the Ohio Ethics Commission web site. For additional information, please visit the Ohio Ethics Commission website. Please contact the Office of General Counsel for assistance with specific questions regarding application of the Ethics Law. Most Asked About Topics The following information is derived from the Ohio Ethics Commission. The complete text may be found on the Ohio Ethics Law Overview website. Nepotism right arrow down arrow A public official or employee is prohibited from hiring a family member or using their position in any way to secure employment of a family member. An official or employee cannot hire these family members, even if they do not live in the same household with the official or employee: Spouse; Parents or grandparents; Children or grandchildren; Siblings; and Step-children or step-parents. An official or employee also cannot hire these family members if they live in the same household with the official or employee: Uncles and aunts; Cousins; Nieces and nephews; In-laws; and Anyone else related to the official or employee by blood or by marriage. See R.C. 2921.42(A)(1). Soliciting or Accepting Things of Value right arrow down arrow A public official or employee cannot solicit or accept “anything of value,” such as a gift, travel expenses, employment, substantial meals, or other things of significant value from anyone if the thing of value could have a substantial and improper influence on the official or employee in the performance of their duties. The Ohio Ethics Commission has explained that these kinds of gifts would improperly influence a public official or employee if they are provided to the official or employee by anyone who is: Doing or seeking to do business with their public agency; Regulated by their public agency; or Interested in matters before their public agency. See R.C. 102.03(E). Travel right arrow down arrow Public employees are prohibited from accepting the payment of travel costs from an improper source. An “improper” source is any individual or party who is: Doing business with the public entity; Seeking to do business with the public entity; Interested in matters before the public agency; or Regulated by the public agency. Use of Authority right arrow down arrow A public official or employee may not use or authorize the use of their public position to get a benefit for themselves or for anyone else with whom they are closely connected. The law also prohibits the official or employee from using their public position to avoid a detriment for themselves or a closely connected person. This means that a public official or employee cannot act on a matter before their public agency if the matter definitely and directly affects the official or employee; one of the official’s or employee’s close family members; or one of the official’s or employee’s business associates. See R.C. 102.03(D). Public Contract Law right arrow down arrow The laws prohibit a public official or employee from: Authorizing a public contract in which the official, a family member, or a business associate has an interest; Authorizing an investment of public funds in which a family member or business associate has an interest or from which a family member or business associate receives a fee; Profiting from a public contract authorized by the official or by a board on which they sit unless the contract was competitively bid and awarded to the lowest and best bidder; and Having an interest in a public contract of any public agency with which they are connected. See R.C. 2921.42(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), and (A)(4). Profiting from a Public Contract or Having an Interest in a Public Contract right arrow down arrow A public official or employee may not profit from any public contract that they authorized. A public official or employee is also prohibited from having an interest in a contract entered into by their public agency. Usually, a public official or employee cannot sell goods or services to their own agency. A public official or employee is prohibited from having a definite and direct interest in a contract with their public agency. A prohibited interest can be either financial or fiduciary in nature. See R.C. 2921.42(A)(3)(4). Supplemental Compensation right arrow down arrow A public official or employee cannot solicit or accept compensation from any source other than their public employer for the performance of their public duties. A private party also cannot promise or give a public official or employee compensation for performing public duties. See R.C. 2921.43. Revolving Door Law/Post Employment Law right arrow down arrow The Ethics Law prohibits a current or former public official or employee from representing any person before any public agency on matters in which the official or employee personally participated. See R.C. 102.03(A)(1). Disclaimer The information on this website is only current as of the date of publication. For most up to date information, please visit the source documents, regulations, and websites cited within. The information on this website is for informational purposes only and is not to be considered legal advice. Contact an attorney directly for assistance with addressing current University legal issues. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top