Skip to Main Content For Prospective Students For Current Students For Faculty For Alumni Directories Academic Calendar TUPortal Apply Make a Gift Beasley School of Law Menu About Dean’s Welcome Mission & History Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Areas of Study Commitment to Service Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Graduate Employment Outcomes Tuition & Cost Life in Philadelphia Advocacy Is… Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Alumni Spotlight Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. and Graduate Program Admissions Academics Degrees and Programs Areas of Study J.D. Curriculum Experiential Learning The Law & Public Policy Program Study Abroad Graduate Tax Program Visiting Research Scholar Program Intellectual Life Course Selection Exams Student Learning Outcomes and Performance Criteria Academic Policies Academic Calendar Faculty Full Time & Visiting Faculty Adjunct Faculty Scholarship & Publications Areas of Expertise Faculty Research & Teaching Areas More Resources Prospective Student Resources Current Student Resources Faculty Resources Alumni Resources Financial Aid Career Services Student Services Technology Services Law Library Media and Communications Plan an Event Directions & Parking Temple Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Policies & Procedures More Library Calendar News Degrees and Programs J.D. / MSW Academics Degrees and Programs Dual Degree Programs J.D. / MSW Academics Degrees and Programs Juris Doctor (J.D.) J.D. Curriculum Full-Time Day Division Evening & Part-Time Day Division Graduation Requirements J.D. Certificate Programs Certificate in Trial Advocacy and Litigation Public Health Law Certificate Program Certificate in Business Law Admissions LL.M. for Foreign-Trained Lawyers Curriculum Graduation Requirements Tuition and Expenses Taking the Bar Exam Alumni Application Procedure Frequently Asked Questions LL.M. in Trial Advocacy Curriculum Why an LL.M. The Temple Experience Distance Learning Faculty Testimonials Application Procedure LL.M. in Taxation Curriculum Faculty Apply LL.M. and J.D./LL.M. in Transnational Law Program Requirements Application Procedure LL.M. in Beijing, China Curriculum Graduation Requirements Application Procedure Tuition & Cost Academic Calendar LL.M. in Asian Law Program Requirements Application Procedure S.J.D. Program Application Procedure Master of Science in Taxation Curriculum Faculty Applying for Admission to the MST Program Employee Benefits Certificate Apply Certificate in International Business and Compliance Estate Planning Certificate Apply Dual Degree Programs J.D. / M.P.H. J.D. / M.B.A. J.D. / MSW J.D. / LL.M. in Transnational Law J.D. / LL.M. in Taxation Temple University Beasley School of Law and the College of Public Health offer a dual degree program leading to the conferral of both the Juris Doctor (J.D.) and the Master of Social Work (MSW) upon graduation. The J.D./MSW program at Temple Law makes it possible for qualified students to earn both degrees in four years. The J.D. degree requires the successful completion of 88 credits; the MSW requires 60 credits. Each school will accept up to 12 credits of work done in selected courses at the other school in fulfillment of its degree. Who May Be Interested Law students with an undergraduate degree in social work Law students with an interest in public interest work Law students with an interest in public policy Program Overview Year 1 – students must successfully complete first year of law school classes with a GPA of 2.0 or higher Year 2 – students take the core curriculum for the MSW plus classes at the law school Years 3 and 4 – students take electives from both schools and complete their required courses How to Apply Students must apply separately to each program. Students may apply to both programs at once, or to the MSW program during the 1st year of law school LSAT is required for J.D. application. The program is only available to full-time students. Request More Information For more information about this program, please contact Assistant Dean for Students Jennifer Bretschneider at jennifer.bretschneider@temple.edu. Back to Dual Degree Programs Work Temple University Beasley School of Law 1719 North Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 (215) 204-7861 Accessibility Privacy Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Temple University Media Inquiries Contact Us © 2022 Temple University Beasley School of Law.