Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Housing Options Tuck students don't scatter after classes are over, whether they live on or off campus. More than half of first-year students live in on-campus residence halls and the rest live nearby, making spontaneous social events and shared activities a way of life. Second-year students live off campus in rental apartments and houses, many of which are passed down to successive groups of Tuck students from year to year. Many students from both classes who have partners or children rent duplexes or town houses in Sachem Village, Dartmouth's graduate student housing complex. On-Campus Housing Tuck offers comfortable, state-of-the art residential facilities designed with mature students and executives in mind. Single students or students coming to Tuck without a partner or children are eligible to live in the residence halls. Since demand often exceeds supply, our 168 rooms on campus are allocated through a lottery. Off-Campus Housing The towns surrounding Dartmouth offer many housing options. In New Hampshire, students tend to live in Hanover, Lebanon, West Lebanon, or Lyme. In Vermont, Norwich, Wilder, and White River Junction are popular locations. Advance Transit provides a free public bus service between the Dartmouth campus and nearby communities. Buses are equipped with wheelchair lifts and bicycle racks. Dartmouth Housing Sachem Village located off Route 10 just south of Hanover, provides reasonably priced housing for many Dartmouth graduate students. Sachem offers one-, two- and three-bedroom apartment homes. Applicants can view apartment floor plans and apply to live in Sachem via the Admitted Students website. The MBA Program Office will run a lottery and notify students on the apartment they have been assigned to in early May. Private Housing To locate non-Dartmouth rental housing, view the Upper Valley Rental List, maintained by the Dartmouth College Real Estate Office. The list includes rental apartments, houses, condominiums, and places to share. Private housing can be also be found by contacting local real estate agents. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy