Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Communication & Film About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Alumni BA/MA Film & Video Production Doctoral Take Action Get Started in the COMM Major Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Communication & Film Alumni Film & Video Production Alumni Film & Video Production Alumni Our FVP alumni are independent filmmakers and industry professionals in the Mid-South and across the country. Let us know what you're doing now, and we'll add or update your information here! Kristen Hill - Instructor, University of Memphis Department of Communicartion and Film Tarrin McGhee - Owner, Pique Public Relations Francheska Landfair - Master Board Controller, Fox 13 News Memphis Jason Alexander - Photographer/Editor, WBBJ-TV, Jackson, TN. Patrick Artus - Production assistant on "America's Next Top Model." "Dancing With the Stars." (L.A.) Andy Babbin - Gaffer (On various independent films) – "18 Fingers of Death", "God's Waiting List", "Something's Wrong in Kansas", "Detective" Barry Barclay - Production Coordinator (features) & Production Manager (Reality TV) – "America's Next Top Model", "The Break Up", Cursed", "Identity", "The Sweetest Thing", "Scream 3", "Charlie's Angels." (L.A.) Matt Beickert - Owner/operator of TV II, a multimedia communications firm, Memphis. Sean Bloemer - Owner/operator of Sean Bloemer Productions. Specializing in commercials, music videos, and still photography. (Memphis) Amy Brown - Owner and Operator of a Documentary film company. (North Carolina). Jeff Bryant - Owner/Operator, Bryant Media Group Camilla Buoni - Director of Videography for Snap Happy Productions, Memphis. Ronnie Carney - Senior Communications Specialist, Fed Ex Services, Memphis. Mandy Carson-Ingram - After four years working in production sound in England, Mandy became a camerawoman and editor in the news division of the BBC. Jim Casey - Managing Editor, True North Custom Publishing, Chattanooga, TN. Brian Churchill - Independent producer and director. Owner of Churchill Studios, Inc., Memphis. Co-founder of Grade One Entertainment. (Memphis) John Paul Clark - Director of Photography on features and music videos, including "The Grace Card." Owner of Firefly Grip and Electric. (Memphis) Chuck Cooper - Director/production designer. (N.Y.) Michael Cruikshank - Camera Assistant (on various TV shows and Movies) – "Deadwood", "Southland Tales", "Petomane: Parti avec le vent, Le" Liz Daggett - Independent filmmaker and Coordinator for CODA (Center for Outreach in the Development of the Arts). Andy Dean - Owner, Dean Film and Video, Memphis. Tom Dean - Gaffer. Wilmington, N.C. Sam Dlugach - Colorist. Credits include the TV series "Frazier," and many features, including "The Conscientious Objector," "Family," and "Dopamine." (L.A.) Jeremy Donaldson - Director of Photography, Mabus Agency Tallahassee, Fl. Brad Ellis - Independent filmmaker. Co-founder of Old School Films. Directing credits include "Act One," which won the Hometown Award at the Indie Memphis Film Festival. (Memphis) Sarah Fleming - Independent producer/director. Co-founder of "Live From Memphis," a grassroots organization representing Memphis music, film and the arts. Dana Shea Gabrion – Supervising Producer CBS Television, Co-Executive Producer - "America's Next Top Model"; Supervising Producer - "Who's Your Daddy?" , "T.H.E.M."; Exec. In Charge of Production - "Kitchen Trends", Line Producer - "The Skateboard Show", "Dreamchasers", "Ultimate Reality"; Reality Production Consultant for the WB Network & Turner Television. The University Alumni Association named Dana "Outstanding Young Alumna" in 2011. (L.A.) Jacob M. Hall -Filmaker, GFQ Studios Olivia Hickox-Cowdry - Production Coordinator, NZK Productions, L.A. Zach Glover - Videographer, Memphis Bar Association. Edward Helmers - Senior Lighting Artist, Bethesda Game Studios Geo Holmes - Director/Director of Photography. Owner/operator of Beale Street Studios. Clients include the PGA, NCAA and CBS Sports. (Memphis) Eric Huber - "Video Scholar" at the Church Health Center and Assistant Professor at Rhodes College, Memphis. Matt Hunter - Feature and Television Intern at The Chernin Group, L.A. Hayden Jackson - Location Sound Mixer for Discovery, Harpo, VH1, ESPN, HBO, etc. (Chicago) Justin Jaggers - Photojournalist, WMC-TV, Memphis. Anwar Jamison - Digital Media Lead Instructor, Arkansas State University Mid-South. Michelle Jarvis - Principal Creative Director. 68 Pictures, Pasadena, CA. Jon Lancaster - Customer Service Manager, Lens Rentals Chet Leonard - Location sound. Credits include "Waking Up in Reno," "A Time to Kill," "In Good Company," and "Lost Highway." (L.A.) Shannon McIntosh - Senior Executive VP at Miramax. Credits include: Producer on "The Hateful Eight;" Executive Producer on "Django Unchained;" the rap documentary, "Rhyme and Reason;" and "Four Friends and a Movie" (the making of "Four Rooms"). (L.A.) Bart Mallard - Actor, director. (Memphis) Brian Manis - Producer and Development head for Davis Entertainment – "Garfield's A Tale of Two Kitties", "Dr. Dolittle 3", "Garfield." (L.A.) Calvin Miller - Video producer/editor/media consultant at calvinmillervideos, Memphis. Andrew Neninger (a.k.a. Kentucker Audley) - Named one of Filmmaker Magazine's "25 New Faces of Independent Film" in 2007. Films include "Team Picture" and "Family Tree." (Memphis) Mark Norris - Producer. Co-founder of Old School Pictures. Credits include "Act One," which won the Hometown Award at the Indie Memphis Film Festival. Jim O'Donnel - Director. Credits include the documentaries, "Ray for the NBA" and "The Party Ain't Stopped Yet." Investigative Producer at ABC7, San Francisco, CA. Leo O'Sullivan - Writer (with one script optioned to Al Pacino about "Napoleon" w/ Michael Radford set to direct AND another MOW for ABC about the making of the movie "JAWS". (L.A.) John Olivio - Independent filmmaker. Credits include "Stranded in Canton." (Memphis) Ryan Parker - Director of Photography. Credits include "Feral," "Only Child," and "Sweet, Sweet, Lonely Girl." (New York / Memphis) Marius Penczner - Producer/writer/director/editor. Features - "I Was A Zombie For the F.B.I.;" Music Videos - ZZ Top, the Everly Brothers, Travis Tritt; Commercials; Political Media Campaigns, including Clinton-Gore, 1996. (Washington, D.C.) Sue Lynn Perry - Production Manager for Running Pony Productions. Sue Lynn received a 2005 Mid South Regional Emmy for her commercial television work. (Memphis) David Perry - Editor. API Photography; Thompson and Company Marketing Communications. (Memphis). Dexter Pierce - Director, Writer & Actor Miller Pipkin - MFA candidate at Emerson University (Boston). Juli S. Pitzer - Video Production Manager at The University of Kansas (Lawrence, Kansas). Wes Pollard - Promotion Director, WREG, TV, Memphis. John Pouncy - Camera Assistant (on various TV shows and Movies) – "The District", "Strange Wilderness", "The Third Nail", "9/Tenths", "You Got Served", "Joy Ride" Richard Rawling - Editor at Elephant Films, Memphis. Andy Romaine - Digital Effects Artist – "Fantastic Four", "Sin City", "Elektra", "Taxi", "Exorcist: The Beginning", "The Last Samurai" (L.A.) Cynthia Runions - Independent producer. Credits include "Dummy" (Atlanta) Jay Russell - Writer/Director - Credits include many television documentaries and the features, "End of the Line," "My Dog Skip," and " Ladder 49." (L.A.) Joe Sanford - Producer/director/editor/videographer; owner of Pelican Pictures, New Orleans. John Saunders - Assistant Director on many films and TV episodes including, "The Hunger Games," "John Wick" and "Vice Principles." Drew Smith - Director of Strategic Communications at Lausanne Collegiate School (Memphis). Drew was previously a producer at Running Pony Productions. Steven Snyder - MFA candidate at Chapman University (L.A.) Lynn Sitler - Executive Director of the Memphis and Shelby County Film Commission. Paul Sloan - Vice President/Creative Services Director, at KSAZ-TV, Phoenix, Arizona. Lisa Stanley - Thompson and Company Marketing Communications. (Memphis). Matt Stevens - Screenwriter (Obscenity, Psycho Bitch), script analyst, film reviewer for E! Online. Matt's short film "The Making of Killer Kite," received the student Emmy for Best Comedy and he was an assistant professor at Florida State University. He is author of "Script Partners: What Makes Film and TV Writing Teams Work" with Claudia Johnson. (L.A.) David Stotts - After being Promotion Manager for WHBQ-TV, Memphis, and winning many Regional Emmy Awards for audio, direction and editing, David is now with the NBA San Antonio Spurs. Dot Stovall - Promotions Director. WISH-TV, Indianapolis, IN. Chris Sutherland - Chief videographer for WREG-TV, Memphis. Jonathon Thomason - Creative Director, Master Video Productions, Memphis. Mark Volzer - Managing Partner, Bravura Productions, Washington, D.C. Mellissa Waldron - Radio Producer; Winner of the James Beard Award for "The Leonard Lopate Show." (N.Y.) Julian Williams - Independent filmmaker and DP whose works have been screened in venues across the country, including the IndieMemphis, Nashville Independent, Carolina Film and Video, Atlanta Underground, Athens and Rochester Film Festivals. Julian is an instructor atWatkins Film School in Nashville. Gina Wright - Radio and Television Producer/Director for eight years; fourteen years experience as an editor on network TV shows for CMT and TNN, award winning music videos, commercials, corporate videos and features. 1998 Mid South Emmy Award nominee and Gold Medal Award at Worldfest Houston Film Festival for documentary, Joe Ely. Instructor at Watkins Film School, Nashville. Z. Eric Yang - Winner of the 2008 Student Academy Award, Eric is now a Creative Executive at Alibaba Pictures. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.