Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Keep HBS Healthy FAQ Visitors & Guests …→ Harvard Business School→ Keep HBS Healthy→ Page Updated: 23 May 2022 Page Updated: 23 May 2022 Reunions: During the month of June we are thrilled to welcome back guests to campus for reunions. To support the wellbeing of the HBS community and all event attendees, the following health measures are in place: We request that you do not come to reunion or commencement if you have any COVID-19 symptoms, even if they are mild. Everyone who comes to campus should test (antigen or PCR) no more than 24 hours before arrival. Masking is strongly encouraged both for indoor and outdoor events. Masks are available in many buildings across campus. Hand sanitizer stations are located throughout campus for your use. HBS meets or exceeds recommended air filtration levels, and optimizes the amount of fresh ventilation and outside air being supplied to all campus classroom and assembly buildings. The Harvard community is highly vaccinated and we strongly encourage guests and visitors to be as well. For Faculty, Staff and Students: Be sure to check this page for the latest guidance before coming to campus, but please note: Masks: Masks are optional throughout the HBS campus, but are strongly recommended for large group events like reunions and commencement. Any individual in our community can always choose to wear a mask and should never feel obliged to explain the reasons for their decision. Those who choose not to wear a mask may wish to have one on their person in case the need arises. Masks will remain available at locations throughout campus. Testing: Guided by public health officials and experts, Harvard is no longer requiring routine testing for COVID-19. However, all community members have the option of testing if they wish, by taking a self-administered test and submitting it via Color. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure is encouraged to test and report status through Crimson Clear. Feeling Sick? If you're experiencing symptoms, please complete a Self Assessment on Crimson Clear, which will initiate a consultation with Harvard University Health Services (HUHS). Please wait for guidance from HUHS before returning to campus activity. Specific for students: MBA students have modified COVID guidelines. Log-in for current details. What You Need to Know Today Jun 01 Jun 01 Open / Closed (Wed) Testing & Tracing →Activate Your Testing Kit →Verify Your Booster →Harvard University Dashboard →Harvard Business School Dashboard (login required) Testing (Wednesday Hours) Pick-up (Wed) Spangler Center 2nd Floor Service Counter 9 am-4 pm Aldrich Hall Security Window 24/7 for when other test kit distribution sites are not available Rock Center OSS Student Mailbox Area 8 am-5 pm Collection Drop-Off (Wed)* Spangler Center 1st Floor East Rotunda 7 am-10 pm SEAS Building Front Lobby 7 am-7 pm *M-F, samples are collected at 9:30 am. Kits dropped after 9:30 am will be picked up the next day, except on Saturday’s and Sunday’s when there are no pickups scheduled. Harvard is offering a 1:00 pm weekday pickup at the Science and Engineering Complex in Allston. There will be no pickups or processing on Friday, June 17th or Monday, June 20th. Questions? coronavirus@hbs.edu Harvard University Health Services: + 617.495.5711 Testing & Tracing Guided by public health officials and experts, Harvard is no longer requiring routine testing for COVID-19. However, all community members have the option of testing if they wish, by taking a self-administered test and submitting it via Color. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure is encouraged to test and report status through Crimson Clear. If you receive a positive test result through a provider outside of Harvard’s coronavirus testing system, have a positive rapid test, have been in close contact with someone who has tested positive, or are experiencing symptoms please complete a Self Assessment on Crimson Clear, which will initiate a response from Harvard University Health Services (HUHS). Please wait for guidance from HUHS before returning to campus activity. Crimson Clear Crimson Clear is used to communicate an individual's testing cadence, to confirm that booster information has been received, and submit a vaccine exemption. In addition, please use Crimson Clear to report when you are experiencing COVID symptoms, have a recent exposure to a positive case, or test positive outside of our program. When you do so, HUHS can follow up to provide you with health guidance. Isolation after a Positive Test In the time between receiving your positive test result and moving into isolation, it’s very important to minimize your movement and exposure to others. If you are off campus, do not come to campus for any reason. If you receive a positive result while you are on campus for the day, gather your belongings and go home immediately. Additionally: Isolation protocols at Harvard are informed by the CDC, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH), and other public health experts. Infected individuals with no symptoms, or resolving symptoms and no fever, may end strict isolation after 5 full days (isolation ending on day 6). You then need to wear a well-fitting mask (whenever required by overall policy) for another 5 days. You should also avoid travel during the full 10-day period Additional requirements apply to specific settings, including healthcare and campus child care. Individuals who test positive should identify and notify their close contacts. HUHS will no longer be doing this due to the high volume. Email communication from HUHS following a positive test notification will provide guidance on notifying close contacts. To reach the contract tracing team please call 617-496-2288 or email Contact_Tracing_Questions@huhs.harvard.edu. When emailing, please be concise but include all relevant details, including the infected person's identity, exposures of concern, and who you are, along with your contact phone number. Please be patient and do not call or email repeatedly. Close Contact Protocol If you have been exposed to a COVID-positive community member and are considered a close contact: If you are fully vaccinated and boosted: You are not required to quarantine provided you have submitted proof of vaccination and booster to HUHS and are not experiencing symptoms Wear a mask around others for 10 days following exposure Test on day 1 and day 5 following the exposure Self monitor for symptoms If you have not received a booster shot: You must quarantine for 5 days after exposure Wear a mask around others for 10 days following exposure Test on day 1 and day 5 following the exposure Self monitor for symptoms If you are unvaccinated and receive a close contact notification: You must quarantine for 5 days after exposure Wear a mask around others for 10 days following exposure Test on day 1 and day 5 following the exposure Self monitor for symptoms Please note, the term isolation refers to a positive COVID-19 case. Quarantine refers to close contacts who have not yet tested positive but are unvaccinated or are recommended by their care provider to limit contact with others. Isolation is more restrictive than quarantine. The only reason one can break isolation is for an emergency or a medical appointment. People who are quarantined can leave their dwelling to pick up and submit COVID tests. How to Verify Your Booster Booster shots are required for all members of the community within 30 days of your eligibility to receive a booster. Details on how to find and schedule a shot and upload your proof of vaccination are outlined on the University's COVID-19 Vaccine & Booster Information page. Vaccination Exemptions Members of the Harvard community can claim exemptions to the vaccination requirement for medical or religious reasons. Students claiming an exemption should complete the Student Vaccine Exemption Form. Faculty, staff, and researchers wishing to note an exemption to the vaccine requirement can do so through Crimson Clear, which you can access from the Verify Your Vaccination webpage. Unvaccinated persons (regardless of the reason) will be subject to additional public health measures, including extra testing, above and beyond what is required of vaccinated individuals. Travel If you’re planning Harvard-related travel, you are required to satisfy the University’s COVID-19 vaccination and booster requirements. In addition, please review the University’s travel guidance for more information and register all international travel in advance. MBA students: please see "Group travel" under "Guidelines for the New Normal" on the Current Guidelines page (log-in required). ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Email: coronavirus@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College