Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Administration A nationally ranked comprehensive research university with eight degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU's more than 12,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education Online Learning International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 17 Division 1 sports programs and more than 30 club and intramural sports. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Research Campus Life Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs Virtual Tour SMU is one of the rare universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. ☰ Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures SMU Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures FERPA Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) helps protect the privacy of student education records. The Act provides for the right to inspect and review education records, the right to seek to amend those records and to limit disclosure of information from the records. The intent of the legislation is to protect the rights of students and to ensure the privacy and accuracy of education records. The Act applies to all institutions that are the recipients of federal aid administered by the Secretary of Education. Institutions that fail to comply with FERPA may have funds administered by the Secretary of Education withheld. Basic Rights of Students Basic rights of students are to be notified of their FERPA rights at least once annually, to inspect and review their records, to amend an incorrect record, and to consent to disclosure (with exceptions). Students have the right to see everything in their educational records, except, information about other students, financial records of parents, and confidential letters of recommendation if they waived their right of access. Acts Amending FERPA Major Acts that Amend FERPA include the following: The USA Patriot Act Section 507 of the USA PATRIOT ACT amends FERPA by permitting educational agencies and institutions to disclose - without the consent or knowledge of the student or parent- personally identifiable information from the student's education records to the Attorney General of the United States or to his designee in response to an ex parte order in connection with the investigation or prosecution of terrorism crimes. In addition, the school is not required to record such disclosures. The Solomon Amendment The Solomon Amendment explicitly states that military recruiters must be given equal access to that provided other recruiters. SMU is therefore obligated to release data included in the list of "student recruiting information," upon request. For more information, please see Solomon Amendment & FERPA. FERPA Letters and Annual Notifications Education Records Student Rights Directory Information Privacy Statement Solomon Amendment & FERPA FERPA Essentials Tutorial and Quiz Release of Education Records Forms Contact Us Helpful Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share