Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Safety at Utah State Safety and Preparedness Utah State takes the safety of our campus communities seriously. We recognize that threats exist both on and off campus and that creating safety is a shared responsibility of employees, students, and visitors. USU Alerts USU sends campus alerts when there is a significant emergency, an ongoing threat of certain crimes on campus, or a safety concern from weather or off-campus incidents. You can receive alerts by text, USU email, or in the Aggie Safe App. Sign Up for USU Alerts Download the safe app Reporting Utah State University takes all crime and safety concerns seriously. Let us know if you or someone you know needs assistance. Report a Crime Report Sexual Misconduct Report a Student of Concern Report Discrimination Safety Resources Sexual Respect USU is committed to providing an educational environment free of sexual violence and harassment. We provide resources for safety, counseling and victim advocacy. Victims of sexual misconduct are encouraged to report their experience to the USU Title IX office in order to receive support services and prevent future incidents from occurring. Learn more USU Police USU Police provides emergency services for dead batteries and lock-outs. They offer 24-hour dispatch and a personal escort on campus if you are feeling unsafe. Contact USU Police to report crimes or suspicious activity on the Logan campus. Public Safety USU Police COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has been ever-evolving, but Utah State has pivoted to protect our Aggies at every turn. USU follows local, state, and federal guidelines to keep our campus communities safe, from mitigation efforts, like mask requirements and vaccination clinics, to containment, through rapid testing and quarantine resources. Visit Aggie Safe Aggie Safe is the official safety app for all USU campuses and connects you directly to Public Safety on the Logan campus. If you are on a statewide campus, USU Public Safety can relay information to your local emergency services dispatch. All university alerts for Logan are also sent through push notifications in the app. Learn more Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page