Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES NEUROSCIENCE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 NEUSCI 198 The Biology of Human Consciousness (5) NW William J Moody An overview of the basic physiology and anatomy of the human nervous system, then explore a series of topics where direct experiments have given us a view of the biological mechanisms that explain high-level brain functions - language, memory, object recognition, the attachment of emotion to people we know and the sensation of time. Recommended: Those with an interest in psychology, neurology, general science or the brain Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 198 NEUSCI 301 Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience (3/5) NW William J Moody Introduces students to the physiological and molecular properties of individual nerve cells and the synaptic connections between them, and to principles of nervous system development. Includes weekly laboratory sessions. Prerequisite: BIOL 220. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 301 NEUSCI 302 Introduction to Systems and Behavioral Neuroscience (3/5) NW Joseph A. Sisneros, Martha Bosma Introduces neuroethology, i.e., the mechanisms by which neurons and the synaptic connections among them produce sensory perceptions and complex behavioral outputs. Available with or without weekly laboratory sessions. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 301. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 302 NEUSCI 401 Systems Neuroscience (3) NW Introduces students to the anatomical and physiological organization of the major sensory, motor, and associative systems of the mammalian brain. Behavioral data used to stress functional integration of systems. Includes gross brain anatomy demonstration and computer tutorials. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 301. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 401 NEUSCI 402 Diseases of the Nervous System (3) NW Introduces the basic mechanisms of mammalian nervous system function through the study of human neurological diseases that result from specific disruption of neuronal signaling. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 401. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 402 NEUSCI 403 Computational Models for Cognitive Neuroscience (3) NW Andrea Stocco Introduces some of the most fundamental concepts of computational models as applied to Cognitive Neuroscience. These models aim at providing explanations of how complex behavior can arise from simple algorithms that are implemented at the neuronal level. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 401. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 403 NEUSCI 404 Neuropharmacology (3) NW Actions of drugs on the brain at clinical, cellular, and molecular levels. Therapeutic use of drugs in treatment of neurological and psychiatric diseases. Abuse of drugs and the mechanisms of addiction, tolerance, and withdrawal. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 401. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 404 NEUSCI 440 Topics in Current Neurosience Research (2, max. 6) NW Prerequisite: NEUSCI 302. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 440 NEUSCI 445 Quantitative Methods in Neuroscience (3) NW Fred Rieke, Adrienne L. Fairhall Quantitative methods applicable to study of the nervous system. Emphasizes computer exercises/discussion of journal papers. May include linear systems theory, Fourier analysis, ordinary differential equations, stochastic processes, signal detection, and information theory. Prerequisite: AMATH 342. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 445 NEUSCI 450 Current Research Literature in Neuroscience (2, max. 6) NW Weekly journal club in neurobiology. Students read and discuss original research articles in neurobiology, centered around a specific topic each quarter. Prerequisite: BIOL 220. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 450 NEUSCI 490 Seminar in Computational Neuroscience (1-3, max. 6) NW Supervised readings and group discussions in computational neuroscience. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 490 NEUSCI 496 Peer Teaching Facilitator in Neuroscience (5, max. 10) Michael L Kennedy For undergraduates assisting in Neurobiology courses as facilitators. Peer Facilitators assist with laboratories, attend lectures, and attend weekly course meetings, gaining direct course experience. Does not include independent teaching or grading. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 302. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 496 NEUSCI 499 Individual Research in Neuroscience (3-6, max. 18) Students carry out projects in laboratories of program faculty. Prerequisite: NEUSCI 301. View course details in MyPlan: NEUSCI 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022