Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Health Center About Emergency Immunization Clinics Policies Health and Wellness Education Coronavirus Updates Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Eligibility for Care Who can receive care at the SHS Flu Shots View our flu shot schedule Class & Work Excuses Know how it works Charges What is costs you to visit the SHS PreviousNext Take Action MyPatient Portal Upload Immunization Documentation Family Planning Clinic STI Clinic Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Student Health Center Welcome to the Student Health Center! The Student Health Center will be closed May 17, 2022 for Professional Development Training. The Student Health Center will be closed June 3, 2022 for the Division Retreat. Student Health Center is offering both in-person and telehealth/phone visits. We are NOT accepting walking-ins at this time. In an effort to enhance safety and social distancing, we ask that you speak to a staff member before coming to the Health Center to determine what service you require. After scheduling an appointment, on the MyPatient Portal, a staff member will contact you by phone. Please answer your phone. We are not accepting walk-ins at this time. Learn more about patient eligibility. If you have symptoms of coronavirus or had contact with a confirmed or suspected case of coronavirus, you may be tested at the Student Health Center. There is no charge for this testing. View available testing times and detailed instructions > After hours, please call the COVID-19 public information numbers, 833.556.2476 and 877.857.2945, or Shelby County Health Department COVID-19 Call Center at 833.943.1658. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Mission The mission of the University of Memphis Student Health Center (SHS) is: to empower students to make informed healthy choices and to take responsibility for a goal of lifelong wellness; to provide personalized health services, education and disease prevention to a diverse student population; and to enhance academic achievement, personal growth, and out of the classroom learning. Announcements What is the Coronavirus? Prevention and Protection Tips Flu Information Affordable Care Act (ACA) - Information for Students Appointment Scheduling - New Flu Shots HIV Resources Student Insurance Information Support for Nursing Mothers Tiger Cookbook Zika Virus Information Disclaimer: University of Memphis does not claim responsibility for information found herein, nor for effects suffered by the adherence to such information. The documents contained within this site are presented by University of Memphis Health Services, solely with the intent of providing public service information on health and health related issues. This information is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always consult your healthcare provider or physician prior to utilizing any of the information presented in this web site. Student Health Services provides links to other web sites for the convenience of site visitors in locating information that may be of interest. Student Health Services is not responsible for the availability or content of these external sites, nor does Student Health Center endorse, warrant or guarantee the products, services or information described or offered at these other Internet sites. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.