Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education About Current: Administration Administration George J. Petersen Professor and Founding Dean George Petersen has been a public school teacher, administrator and university faculty member. Prior to this appointment with the College of Education, he served as dean of the Graduate College of Education at California Lutheran University. He was the chair of the Department of Graduate Studies at the California Polytechnic State University-San Luis Obispo and co-director of the University of California-Santa Barbara and Cal Poly Joint Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership. He was a tenured professor at the University of Missouri-Columbia, and served as associate director of the University Council for Educational Administration, a national research and policy organization. Petersen is the author or co-author of three books and more than 100 book chapters, professional articles, research papers, monographs and commissioned reports. Much of his scholarly work has focused on the executive leadership of district superintendents and their beliefs, roles and work in the area of instructional leadership and policy. Petersen’s research has been widely published and is internationally recognized for its quality and impact. In recognition of his scholarship and service, Petersen received numerous awards, including Clemson University’s Ralph D. Elliott Award for Outstanding Service to Off-Campus, Distance and Continuing Education, the University of California-Santa Barbara's Gevirtz College of Education Distinguished Alumni Award and the University of Missouri-Columbia’s Excellence in Teaching Award. He was also was a finalist for both the Outstanding Teaching and Distinguished Scholarship Awards at Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo. As a public school teacher, he was the recipient of the Sallie Mae Outstanding Teaching Award, given to the top 100 teachers in the United States. Jeff C. Marshall Professor and Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Studies In his role as Associate Dean, Jeff Marshall supports the continued excellence and growth of graduate programs in the College of Education which now exceed 1,000 degree seeking students. His leadership guides the research and grant productivity in the college. Additionally, he is Principal Investigator for the $3 million award from the U.S. Department of Education, CU-Teacher Learning Progressions. Prior to this role, Jeff Marshall served as a professor of science education and department chair in the department of Teaching and Learning. He also directs Clemson’s Inquiry in Motion Institute and was instrumental the development of Clemson’s Master of Education in teaching and learning online program. Marshall’s research has focused on improving teacher professional development experiences and teacher effectiveness. A recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching, he has published six books, more than 60 articles and given more than 130 presentations in the past 12 years. He also serves as an educational consultant for school districts, universities and grant projects across the country. Michelle Patrick Cook Professor and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies In this position, Michelle Cook provides leadership in undergraduate programming and clinical and field experiences, supports assessment and accreditation, and participates in policy development and implementation. Cook has served as a faculty member in science education since 2006. She earned her Ph.D. in science education from North Carolina State University. She earned her undergraduate and master’s degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Before coming to Clemson, Cook was a high school biology teacher in Raleigh, N.C. During her time at Clemson, Cook has prepared pre-service teachers in the College of Education’s undergraduate and MAT science teaching programs. She has provided statewide professional development to in-service science teachers though Improving Teacher Quality, Mathematics and Science Partnership, and Advanced Placement Teacher Institute grants. Cook’s research has been funded by several NSF grants and has been included in journals such as Science Education and the International Journal of Science Education. Lee D’Andrea Director of College Relations Kathryn “Lee” D'Andrea currently serves as the Director of College Relations and a Professor of Practice in the College of Education at Clemson University. Prior to her public school career retirement, in June 2015, Dr. D'Andrea served as Superintendent of Anderson School District 4 for six years. She previously served the district as the Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction from 2003-2006. Dr. D'Andrea grew up in Anderson County, SC, before earning her Bachelor of Science in Education from the University of Georgia. In 1976, she began her career as a first grade teacher in Columbus, Georgia. She also served as Coordinator of Early Childhood and Family Literacy, Principal of West Market Family Education Center, and Assistant Superintendent of Data and Accountability in Anderson School District 5. From 2006-2008, she was the Superintendent of the School District of Pickens County. A lifelong learner, Dr. D'Andrea earned a Master’s Degree and a Doctorate of Philosophy in Education Leadership from Clemson University. She served on numerous state/regional committees and task-forces. Her areas of education interest include leadership development, systems reform and capacity building, policy and politics of education. David S. Fleming Chair, Department of Teaching and Learning David Fleming supports the faculty and students in the Curriculum and Instruction, Teaching and Learning, Early Childhood Education, Elementary Education, Middle Level Education, Mathematics Teaching, Science Teaching, and Secondary Education programs within the Department of Teaching and Learning. A member of the Clemson faculty since 2006, he has served in such roles as Program Coordinator, Associate Dean, Interim Associate Provost and Dean of the Graduate School, among others. Prior to his work at Clemson, Fleming was a faculty member at the University of Florida, a high school teacher in Hampton, South Carolina, and an elementary school teacher in Columbia, South Carolina. Fleming's research and service focuses on the teaching/learning processes in physical education/activity, program evaluation, and out-of-school time education programming. He has been the Principal Investigator for over $6 million in external grants to support his work. Currently, he is the Principal Investigator for GoalPOST (Goal-Oriented Performance in Out of School Time), a partnership between Clemson University and Anderson School District #1 as well as the Pickens County School District. The focus of the project is measuring the development of achievement goal orientations and academic achievement through an out of school time education program designed to foster a mastery learning environment. The project is funded by the USDOE. Hans W. Klar Professor and Interim Department Chair, Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development In this role, Hans Klar supports faculty and students in the Athletic Leadership, Education Systems Improvement Science, Educational Leadership, Human Resource Development, and Student Affairs programs. Klar has served as a faculty member and coordinator of the educational leadership programs at Clemson University since 2010. He received his PhD in Educational Leadership at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Prior to commencing doctoral studies, Klar served in a variety of teaching and educational leadership positions in Australia, China, and Japan, including Associate Dean for English Programs at the Sydney Institute of Language and Commerce at Shanghai University. Klar’s research is centered on fostering leadership development in rural and high needs schools through research practice partnerships. At Clemson, he has led the South Carolina Successful School Principals’ Project and co‐directed a leadership coaching initiative called the Leadership Learning Community. He has also served as a visiting scholar at the Universidad Andrés Bello in Santiago, Chile and at the Center for Principal Development at Umeå University in Umeå, Sweden. Debi M. Switzer Professor and Chair, Department of Education and Human Development Debi Switzer oversees the areas of clinical/mental health counseling, educational foundations, learning sciences, literacy, school counseling and special education within the Department of Education and Human Development. A member of the Clemson faculty since 1990 and full professor since 2004, Switzer has focused her teaching on educational psychology, including learning and motivation theory, and tests and measurements. She has collaborated on research projects with faculty in engineering, psychology, education, recreation, counseling, public health and business, supplying expertise in assessment and experimental design. A consulting editor for the Journal of Educational Research for two terms, she has engaged in research in motivation and assessment, and research design that has included the instructional benefits of virtual worlds and other technologies. Switzer’s honors include the Harold E. Mitzel Award for Meritorious Contribution to Educational Practice Through Research by the Journal of Educational Research, the Prince Award for Innovation in Teaching by Clemson’s Undergraduate Student Government, and the Governor’s Distinguished Professor recognition by the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. She spent the first nine years of her career as a secondary mathematics and computer science teacher. Leigh Martin Executive Director, Office of Clinical Partnerships and Outreach Leigh Martin oversees all aspects of the Office of Field and Clinical Partnerships and Outreach, including guiding all facets of students’ field experiences. In this role, she also works with College of Education faculty and staff as they move towards developing policies and practices to create partnership models with school districts. Martin has been a member of the Clemson faculty since 2011. Since then, she has held the position of lecturer, senior lecturer, and program coordinator. Prior to her arrival at Clemson, she worked as a mathematics specialist with the S2TEM Centers and taught middle school and high school mathematics. Martin’s research interests include mathematics instructional coaching and preservice teachers’ noticing of students’ thinking. She has published in the Journal of Mathematics Teacher Education, Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, and Contemporary Issues in Technology and Teacher Education, and she has spoken nationally at dozens of conferences. Martin also serves as a reviewer for the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, the Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators, and the South Carolina Council of Teachers of Mathematics. Additionally, she has served as vice president of post-secondary for the South Carolina Council of Teachers of Mathematics, and she is currently a member of Clemson’s Inaugural President’s Leadership Institute. Laura Eicher Director, Teacher Residency Laura Eicher oversees all aspects of the Teacher Residency Program, which includes working closely with our seven partner school districts to place teacher residents in a yearlong clinical placement and training mentor teachers to work with these residents. She also teaches teacher residents in their graduate coursework each semester. Before coming to Clemson, Eicher taught high school science for 18 years in public schools in South Carolina. Her research interests include preservice teacher education, teacher recruitment and retention, and teacher identity. College of Education "Best In Class" Copyright © Clemson University College of Education "Best In Class" | 101 Gantt Circle 864-656-7656 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson