COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts: Student Life WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita WSU Student Life Fast Facts WSU’s largest residence hall—Shocker Hall—is centrally located and houses more than 700 students, a 400-seat dining hall and coffee shop. Shocker Hall residents can choose to join a Living Learning Community, which brings students with similar academic goals and interests together as neighbors. WSU is Kansas’ most racially and ethnically diverse college campus with Shockers coming from 110 countries. More than 40 percent are first-generation students. 350+ annual on-campus events 200+ student organizations 20+ Greek organizations Free tickets to home athletics and fine arts events WSU’s Student Activity Council packs each semester with fun and free ways to unwind after class. The Rhatigan Student Center (RSC), at the heart of campus, is home to billiards, bowling, restaurants, a bank and other amenities. Wichita State’s Food Truck Plaza features unique, local food truck cuisine five days a week. Each semester is packed with time-honored traditions like Clash of the Colleges, Hippodrome, Shocktoberfest and Convocation—annual events full of competitions and fun. WSU features highly active, semester-packed intramurals and club sporting events in everything from flag football to softball. WSU’s location makes volunteering easy. Groups like the WuCrew bring like-minded Shockers together for worthy causes throughout the year. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©