Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Paola Cruz Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Paola Cruz May 05, 2022 Paola Cruz Undergraduate Where are you from? Originally the Philippines, but now Queens, NYC Major: Medical humanities Tell us about your path to GS! Before coming to Columbia, I worked in a couple of industries, ranging from hospitality to publishing and then finance. Taking on multiple jobs simultaneously while trying to navigate higher education wasn’t always fun, especially as a first-generation low-income (FGLI) student. However, coming to Columbia has opened up many opportunities to explore my interests, both on an academic level and in the service work I want to do. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? In 2018, I earned a Program for Academic Leadership and Service (PALS) Scholarship. Securing the scholarship until I graduated, and advocating alongside my peers for better access to food, housing, and other needs for FGLIs will always be one of my greatest moments at Columbia. At Columbia, I am majoring in medical humanities. I think that the major’s unique focus on the cultural and societal dimensions of health and illness is fascinating and crucial, especially with today’s public health crises. I’m also immensely grateful to have built meaningful relationships and connections with students who share the same values and passion that I have for access to higher education and healthcare. A Columbia friend introduced me to a nonprofit organization, Young Invincibles (YI), that helps to address inequalities in higher education, healthcare, and the workforce. I have since been a part of the organization and am one of the Northeast Regional Board members. Our most recent work includes Generation Vaxxed, a campaign created to address the low COVID-19 vaccination rates among young adults. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? Dean Sara Remedios was instrumental to my journey at GS as she understood the plight of an immigrant and a first-gen student. She was compassionate and supportive towards me during my high and low points at Columbia. I was on the brink of losing my scholarship due to a low GPA and felt dispirited during my first year, but Dean Remedios helped me plan how to tackle my school and work workload for the following semesters. That tremendously helped my situation and I was able to do well in my classes. She reminded me that if there are times when grades don’t match the effort put in, it's a reflection of the specific situation, not one's strength or potential. What are your plans for after graduation? I recently started a position at Columbia Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center as a Clinical Research Coordinator and I’d like to go to med school in two or three years. I will also continue my advocacy for access to higher education, and I’d also like to delve more into advocacy for healthcare access. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Don’t hesitate to reach out for any help that you may need. You’d be surprised how many at GS are more than willing to assist and genuinely want to see you succeed. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close