Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News CAAS News Dr. Patricia Cioe Presents Abstract at SRNT Conference May 3, 2022 SRNT MindUP Poster_02_08_2022_FINAL - Patricia Cioe.pptxDr. Patricia Cioe presented an abstract at the recent Society for Research on Nicotine & Tobacco conference in Baltimore, MD on March 18. Read More Prescription Drug Abuse Policy System (PDAPS) Provides Data, Information on State Policies and Laws Aimed at Responding to Substance Use Disorders Mar 17, 2022 Researchers at JCOIN’s Brown University Clinical Research Center (MPIs: Rosemarie Martin, PhD, Damaris Rohsenow, PhD), developed the Prescription Drug Abuse Policy System (PDAPS). This online resource provides data and information on state policies and laws aimed at responding to substance use disorders, including topics related to justice-involved populations, naloxone access, medication for opioid use disorder (MOUD), prescription drug monitoring programs, and more. Read More Drs. Gunn, Aston and Metrik Publish Review Paper on Patterns of Cannabis and Alcohol Co-Use Mar 16, 2022 Drs. Gunn, Aston and Metrik published a review paper, "Patterns of cannabis and alcohol co-use: Substitution versus complementary effects" in Alcohol Research: Current Reviews. Read More Dr. Robert Miranda and Team Launch New Website Mar 1, 2022 Dr. Robert Miranda and his lab have launched a brand new website to highlight their work with Vista Clinical Research Group. Faculty and postdoctoral fellows affiliated with the Vista Clinical Research Group — including scientists from Brown University, Bradley Hospital, Lifespan Health System, and beyond — share a passion for advancing knowledge and clinical care for people who struggle with addiction. Read More Jake Tempchin to Pursue PhD at University of Memphis Mar 1, 2022 CAAS Senior Research Assistant Jake Tempchin will matriculate this fall at the University of Memphis in pursuit of a PhD in clinical psychology. He will study with Dr. Jim Murphy, focusing on behavioral economics, motivational interviewing, and the implementation of interventions to reduce harms experienced from substance use. Read More Dr. Zelaya Published in Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity Feb 10, 2022 Dr. David Zelaya recently published "Psychometric validation and extension of the LGBT people of Color Microaggressions Scale with a sample of sexual minority BIPOC college students" in the journal Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity. Dr. Zelaya's research provides further rigorous statistical support and evidence for researchers and clinicians to use the LGBT People of Color Microaggressions Scale. Read More Dr. Meisel Published in BMC Psychology Feb 10, 2022 Dr. Matthew Meisel had a paper accepted for publication in the journal BMC Psychology. In the manuscript, in a sample of emerging adults who never attended 4-year college, the authors found that most of the sample experienced some form of education-based stigma and discrimination and that these experiences were associated with worse mental health symptoms. Read More Dr. Capone Publishes Primary Outcomes on Trauma Informed Guilt Reduction Feb 10, 2022 Dr. Christy Capone and colleagues recently published primary outcomes of an RCT funded by the DoD examining a psychotherapy focused on trauma-related guilt and shame in post-9/11 veterans. Results found that Trauma Informed Guilt Reduction (TrIGR) resulted in significant reductions in guilt and PTSD and depressive symptoms as compared to Supportive Care Therapy. The research appears in the journal Depression and Anxiety. Read More Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top