Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Career Services: Students How to Write a Resume That Stands Out You finally found it! The perfect job for you. Now, all you have to do to get the process started is to submit your resume. The problem is that hundreds of your peers are probably thinking exactly the same thing. How do you stand out? You finally found it! The perfect job for you. Now, all you have to do to get the process started is to submit your resume. The problem is that hundreds or even thousands of your peers are probably thinking exactly the same thing about exactly the same job. So how do you create a one-page document that will make you and your accomplishments stand out from the crowd? Your resume is a key part of the job application process: it is the first document that an employer reviews to determine whether they will interview and eventually employ you. Remember that employers often have very limited time to perform this duty. Crafting a strong resume really matters! Resumes communicate who you are and what you have accomplished. They may be the only document an employer sees to evaluate your record before making a decision to move forward with your application, or they may be used in conjunction with resources like LinkedIn or professional networking profiles and/or a cover letter. A resume that “stands out” in a positive way is one that has been written thoughtfully, clearly and concisely, effectively communicating your abilities and strengths in a very brief space. Six basic tips will help you build an outstanding professional resume. Note that resumes may vary by professional field (e.g. engineering vs. non-engineering), by location or by other factors such as professional degree. These tips are designed around some of the most common sections and most useful points for resumes across different types. Tip 1: How to Write an Education Section that Stands Out The education section demonstrates that you have the academic qualifications for the position. The key questions you should ask yourself while writing this section is, “Have I clearly communicated the strongest and most relevant aspects of my educational experience?” The next question is, “Is this section organized in a way that is easily readable by the employer?” The education section is important for all applicants but may be weighted differently depending on how long it has been since you graduated from a degree program. For instance, an employer may have a different level of interest in the educational history of a college senior, compared to someone who has been professionally working for several years after college. Understanding this fact may influence where you choose to place this section on your resume. In general, you should include all of the higher education that you may have had, including undergraduate, graduate, or professional schooling. You may also consider including online courses, certificates, and completed programs through companies like Coursera. Most people list their experiences in an order called reverse chronological, meaning that they list the most recent experience first, and work backwards down the page. For each listed school, provide the full name of the school or online program, the years of your attendance, your major or majors, if applicable, as well as a minor if applicable. Include the type of degree received (e.g. a Bachelor of Arts or Master of Science) and the year of graduation. If you are graduating soon, include the month and year of graduation so employers know when you will be available to work. If you have studied abroad, include the institution, program of study, and any relevant coursework. You may want to include which semesters you qualified for special academic recognition, if any. Other special awards, scholarships, or competitive grants can also be listed in this section. If you have non-academic awards, such as for sports or community service, you may choose to create a separate section of your resume for honors and awards. Tip 2: How to Make the Experience Section Stand Out Along with education, your experience is one of the most important ways to show that you are qualified for a position. Use this section to clearly convey your strongest professional experiences, whether paid or unpaid. Be sure to give detailed aspects of your roles and responsibilities for each listed position. Emphasize any relationships or similarities between your past experiences and the job you want. You should also include the start and end dates of your involvement with each organization, and any key accomplishments from the role. Don’t forget to include where the company is located, including city and state/province, or even country if different from your home country. Ask yourself: while involved with the company, did I win any awards, get any special recognition, make new discoveries, start a new program? If so, what happened and what were the results? Quantify your experiences when you can! As the expression goes, “Show don’t tell.” In other words, you can more effectively convey a point by giving concrete examples, rather than through vague descriptions. Consider the following examples. Instead of: Improved worker productivity significantly, leading to recognition from upper management. (A resume reader may ask: What does ‘improved’ mean? What does recognition mean? How much have you improved it by?) Say: Improved quarter returns by 25%, exceeding projections and leading to the Top Manager Award, given to only one manager in the company per year. When it comes to language, be honest about your job functions while thinking of professional ways to present your experiences. Sometimes people fall into a trap of thinking that their job or internship experience won’t sound impressive enough to list. The job may have felt like “sitting at a desk, answering the phone.” True, but you may have been performing other responsibilities or developing useful job-related skills without realizing that you were! When you were at a desk, were you at the FRONT desk? Were you the only person or the main person in this position? Were you overseeing anything while you were sitting there? Were you the sole person responsible for any tasks? Did you have to learn how to deal calmly and confidently with any customer issues? Did people occasionally ask you to take on additional responsibilities, even for a short time? It is fair to say that a person sitting at a front desk, may have been MANAGING the front desk, or even managing the desk when the person’s boss was away. Time during which an individual is placed in charge of a business or an office, even if for a limited time, can convey responsibility to a prospective employer. Look at your accomplishment bullet and ask yourself: What did I do in the job? How? Using what? With whom? To what extent or impact? Sometimes you may need to pare down your list in order to avoid making your resume too lengthy. Try to select the accomplishments based partly on how impressive they are and partly on how well they relate to the position you want. To describe your experience, always use more than one sentence or bullet. That said, word economy in your bulleted descriptions is also important. Try to keep each bulleted description or sentence to one or two lines at most. You can often rephrase a description, eliminating words while keeping the meaning. The more information you can present clearly and concisely within the short resume format, the more the employer will understand what you can do for them. Remember that by providing relevant details in each statement of your experience, you will give the employer enough information to evaluate you and also provide them with ideas of what they might want to discuss with you in an interview. Tip 3: How to Create a Leadership and Activities Section that Stands Out For many people, especially students and recent graduates, a Leadership & Activities section can be a fantastic differentiator for your resume. If you have not been in the workforce for long, or if you have only worked summers and part-time, then you may not have much relevant content to add to your Experience section. A strong Leadership & Activities section can help you fill that gap while also telling an employer something about you as a person. When creating the section, you should first consider what student organizations and activities you would want to include. Then, you should consider what you would want to write about each one. In general, this section is much like the Experience section, except that it is about what you have done in a personal, rather than professional, setting. Of course, because student organizations and activities are personal, you should be careful about which ones you choose to list; they should be appropriate to a professional setting. For example, you should probably not choose to share that you were chosen “Top Drinker” of your college’s “Beer Keg of the Day” club. On the other hand, if you volunteered at a food bank, wrote for a school publication, or had a membership in an honor society, those accomplishments would be worth sharing. Most importantly, you should include student organizations and activities where you have made significant contributions or held leadership positions. Just as you did in the Experience section, you should think about what you did in the organization, any responsibilities you had, any skills you used, and any knowledge you gained. If you made improvements to the student organization or activity, definitely include concrete examples. Make sure to consider if any of your experiences with student organizations and activities could be related to the position you are applying for. Could any of the skills you have learned be useful in the job? Because student organizations and activities can offer students leadership opportunities and experiences that are often limited to experienced professionals in companies, this section is your chance to show not only that you are qualified for the position but that you have even greater potential. Make the most of this opportunity to show the employer what you can do! Tip 4: How to Highlight Your Skills Another important component of what defines an attractive candidate in the modern economy is their skill set. Because employers want people who can quickly start being productive, they care about what skills a job prospect has, particularly in certain technical fields. In most cases, skills are incorporated into the Experience section, if you acquired skills as part of your internship or job, and in the Education section, if you obtained the skills through coursework, research, or projects. Sometimes people with additional skills, such as technical skills, foreign language, or certifications obtained outside of university, will place them into a separate section at the end of the resume. Whichever format you choose, you still need to emphasize the skills you have, so that an employer can easily see how you can help them. You should ask yourself a few important questions. What skills do I have? What skills are my target employers looking for? Are my skills hard skills (i.e. technical, like computer programming) or soft skills, such as the ability to listen? Make a list! Separate the skills into hard skills and soft skills. What skills are most in demand (on both lists) for the position you are interested in (One good way to decide this is to look at job listings for many similar positions and note how often a particular skill is listed.)? How can you highlight your proficiency in these skills? Lead with your strongest skills and/or the ones that seem the most marketable. Let’s say you know the programming language Python. How well do you know it? How many years have you used it? Do you have any specialized knowledge and ability that may set you apart from a competing applicant? Do you have demonstrations of your work anywhere for a prospective employer to see? Here’s an example of a skills entry that might be included into the Experience section: Programming: 8 years of experience with Python and similar scripting languages, wrote MyFirstPythonProject software available on GitHub Useful tip: Artists may have portfolios for their artistic work. Examples of appropriate work, such as for coding, may not be a bad idea to have available in addition to a resume! Even if your field is not technical, you may still have important hard skills. Do you have experience with popular office software, such as Excel, PowerPoint, or Access? Do you know any foreign languages, even at a basic level? Think about not only what might be required in the day-to-day performance of the job, but what other skills could potentially be useful to the employer. You will want to include all the relevant skills to demonstrate your qualifications, without including too much less-relevant information which could distract from your message. Think carefully about which skills you want to include, and which could be left out. Remember to choose your words economically to maximize content in a minimum of space. With a little effort, your skills details can transform your resume from a simple list of accomplishments to a document that gets an employer thinking about all the great ways you could contribute! Tip 5: Formatting and Making the Resume Look Professional Believe it or not, the appearance and organization of a resume can greatly affect the response. The first hurdle for any resume is to get the employer to read it. An attractively presented, concise resume is easy for a recruiter to pick up. On the other hand, if a resume is 5 pages, written in 6-point font, a prospective employer may not think that it is worth the time to find a magnifying glass and read it. In most cases, a resume should not exceed one page (sometimes two pages, mostly for more experienced candidates, or in scientific and technical fields where publication lists can be lengthy), which has a few key sections that are separated from one another or clearly delineated. Here are some suggestions to make the format stand out positively: Use 10-12-point font or larger. (10 point may even sometimes be too small, and the choice can depend on the chosen font.) Your audience should easily be able to read the size of the writing. Often prospective employers may not have perfect vision, so readability may create problems if the text is too small. Use a clean, professional-looking font. Don’t use fonts that are overly artistic and hinder the ability for the reader to understand them. Some find fonts like Times New Roman most clearly readable; others find competing fonts better. The font is just an aspect of the writing; don’t let it overpower the words themselves. Use respectable margins. Don’t try to deviate too much from 0.5 margins at either side. Also, don’t make the margins too large, beyond 0.75 or 1 unit on either side. Around 1 unit on the top and bottom should be acceptable. Use adequate spacing. Abbreviate months of employment. Include proper contact information. Most people include full name, address, email address and at least one phone number at the top of the document. Tip 6: Revision and Review One of the most important steps to writing a good resume is having others you trust look it over. A small spelling or grammar error on a resume could cause problems by making it seem like you lack attention to detail. You can start with standard spelling and grammar checking programs. However, while these programs are very helpful, they are not enough by themselves. For example, the programs may not flag errors with homophones (e.g. hair and hare). They also have difficulty with uncommon, technical, or foreign words that may not be in their dictionaries. In addition, they are not looking for formatting inconsistencies or at the overall appearance of the resume. While computer programs can help with many issues, there is still no substitute for the human eye. Start by printing a copy of your resume and looking for errors and inconsistencies yourself. Then, present copies to others along with a description of the job or educational opportunity that you are applying for. When presenting your resume to others, consider at least two kinds of people: a peer, and an experienced professional or teacher. Each may identify different issues with the resume. Ask the reviewers to provide two types of notes: technical revisions and feedback on the writing, organization and effectiveness of the resume. Once you get feedback, discuss it with them for a few minutes. Remember, don’t take constructive criticism personally! They are trying to help you, and their points of view may be similar to that of the employer. Your goal is to create a resume that most people will appreciate. Once you obtain proper feedback, you can work on improving your resume. Try to incorporate your reviewers’ suggestions. Their ideas may even make you think of other ways to improve your resume! Most importantly, always remember that once you have made your revisions, review your resume again before you send it out! The stronger your resume, the better your chance of getting an interview and landing a meaningful job. Just by following these simple tips, you will be well on your way to resume success, creating a clear, detailed, and concise document designed to impress employers. So, get writing and get yourself noticed! A good resume can help you land an interview, but even minor errors can take you out of the running. Schedule an appointment with a counselor to ensure it will be effective. Quick Resume Tips: Use the position description to decide what to include. Pick a standard and consistent format. Describe your experiences with specificity and strong action verbs. Record accomplishments and contributions, not just responsibilities. Revise carefully! Don’t include personal information about your age, religion, health or marital status. Photos are generally not preferred for U.S. resumes. Typically, you will not be expected to share past salary information on a resume. Employers assume that “references will be available upon request,” so you don’t need to include them on your resume unless asked. Employers may use keyword scanning on resumes, so know what words are relevant to the industry and position and ensure they appear in your resume. News & Announcements Career Services: Students Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: Faculty The Career Services Team Virtual & On-Campus Events Diversity & Inclusivity Frequently Asked Questions Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26