Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Preparing and Submitting a Proposal This page provides an overview of best practices and regulations to follow for submitting a proposal for research funding to an external funding organization (e.g. federal agencies, foundations, etc). Proposal Development Services If you’re new to the proposal process at Brown, or pursuing a large, complicated opportunity, we recommend you start by contacting the Research Strategy and Development office, which can assist you in thinking about all the components required for a competitive proposal. The Office of Research Strategy and Development provides information, training opportunities and one-on-one support to faculty members who are planning a proposal submission with the goal of making proposals more competitive. We can help you navigate the resources and offices at Brown that you’ll work with on submitting your proposal, and plan ahead for various deadlines. We offer expertise in all federal agency proposals and will help faculty develop the non-discipline specific sections of a proposal (i.e. management plan, broader impacts, facilities descriptions). Also, we provide project management for large, complex proposals. For more information contact Amy Carroll at [email protected] or 3-6301 or visit our pages linked above. For proposal development services on foundation grants, please see the Office of Foundation Relations, and for corporate-sponsored research please visit Brown Technology Innovations. Proposal Review and Submission The Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) is the Authorized Organizational Representative through which Brown University receives external funding. Thus, all proposals for external funding must be processed through OSP. For faculty in the Division of Biology and Medicine (except for Neuroscience and the Brown Institute for Brain Science), grant proposals are processed through BioMed Research Administration (BMRA) and contract proposals are processed through OSP. OSP and BMRA ensure compliance with sponsor requirements and help to manage grants once awarded. All proposals at Brown are submitted and managed through a grants management system called COEUS (transitioning to InfoEd). For more guidance about the Office of Sponsored Projects please follow the links above or contact Patrice A. Carroll at [email protected] or [email protected] or (401) 863-2777. Compliance Considerations and Requirements Depending on the work you propose, as you prepare your proposal you may need to consider requirements pertaining to research involving human and animal subjects (IRB and IACUC), implications of export control laws and regulations when research involves international collaborations or controlled technology, assurances and reporting related to conflicts of interest, and training in responsible conduct of research. The Office of Research Integrity supports all these compliance areas and you can learn more at the link above. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Proposal Development Services Proposal Review & Submission (OSP) Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat