Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Student Success and Retention Initiative Menu Search TTU Office of the Provost Student Success and Retention Initiative Academic Success Coaching Academic Life CoachingAcademic Life Coaching is an individualized partnership with coachees that offers creative opportunities for self-reflection and understanding, considers potential change, and then fuels transformation from new insights into powerful, effective actions through improved agency in higher education and throughout their lives. Schedule your appointment What does coaching look like? A life coaching session is designed to ask questions that create space for self reflection that will turn into action to help you achieve your goals in both academics and life. Some examples are: Organization Goal setting Time Management Accountability Work Life Balance Communicating Focus Handling Conflict Self Confidence Self Efficacy Commitment Social Engagement Student Experiences "Academic Life Coaching has provided me with plenty of support during my first year in college. As a first generation college student I found guidance and a sense of understanding with my coach and my peer success coach. Programs like these are very much needed because they act as a helping hand for those of us who are in a bit of a struggle trying to find success in and out of college." - Ivette Morales, TTU First-Year Meet the Success Coaching Team Who are they? Coming to us from successful careers in business, education, and academic advising, each Success Coach brings a professional certification in academic life coaching, along with different academic and professional experiences to bear when working to support with each individual student . Learn more about our Success Coach professionals by reviewing their individual profiles online. What do they do? Student Success Coaches work to engage Red Raiders through professional interactions that recognize potential, engage challenges, encourage excellence, and promote persistence. Members of SSR's Student Success Coach team provide and document holistic interactions (e.g., success coaching, goal articulation, issue identification, action planning, referral to campus resources) for assigned student populations, including all students-in-distress. Coaching interactions frequently involve guidance for those considering substantial academic changes, initiating an academic withdrawal, making little or no progress to degree, initiating multiple repeat course enrollments, and identified as being at-risk, among others. Additionally, Success Coaches are responsible for providing the following: administrative, clerical, and technical support with analyses of students' academic status, collaborations with campus offices, communications regarding preregistration, registration, add/drop and resource promotions, and campus events including or related to academic advising, student success, and persistence-to-degree. Through its programs, services, and tools, Student Success & Retention supports all our diverse student population and partners strategically with the many invested faculty members, student support professionals, academic advisors, engagement programs, and administrative personnel across campus. How can I interact with them? If you would like to make an appointment with one of our Success Coaches, you can contact the Student Success and Retention office by e-mailing success@ttu.edu or calling (806) 742-SPRG (7774). You can also set up an appointment using strive.ttu.edu. Select "Get Tutoring, Coaching, & Instructor Appointments" at the top right corner of the page. In the "Choose a Student Service" field, select the appropriate "Academic Coaching: _______" option from the drop-down list. In the "What location do you prefer?" field, select "Student Success & Retention (Drane 115)" option from the drop-down list. A list of coaches and their available appointment times are now listed. Once a coach and an appointment time are chosen, add any important comments and select a "Reminder" option. Click "Submit" to submit your appointment request. Meet the Peer Success Coaching Team Who are they? Currently, these twelve students come to Student Success & Retention from the College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources, College of Arts & Sciences, the College of Education, the College of Media & Communication, the Honors College, the Rawls College of Business, the Whitacre College of Engineering, University Studies, the Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts, and the Graduate School. Visit the SSR Team page to learn more. Each PSC brings different skills, abilities, style, personality, and experience to the team. Learn more about our PSC team members by reviewing their individual profiles online. What do they do? So far, PSCs have made many, many phone calls to reach specific populations of students who are showing some signs of academic distress or non-performance. In these calls, the student coaches act as an informed resource for all students regarding matters related to accessing available campus resources, act as a referral source throughout the academic year to support Texas Tech's administrators, advising, and instructional personnel, and coach their fellow students on trusted strategies for effective time management, studying, exam preparation. Additionally, they attend/complete required trainings and represent the SSR team at various university events, undertake statistical analysis of student success markers, proposing potential coaching interventions, participate in the planning and execution of the Regional Symposium for Student Success, attend and occasionally lead weekly team meetings throughout the fall and spring semester, investigate and report on best practices and scholarly research in the area of student success, conduct quality reviews and clinical supervision of other peer coaches, and handle additional administrative duties including but not limited to, regular reporting of peer coaching and facilitation sessions, promoting and advertising campus resources, communicating with university personnel, monitoring the success@ttu.edu mailbox, update web pages, answering incoming phone calls for 806-742-7774 (SPRG), and other basic administrative duties as they arise. How does the work of these Success Coaches affect Texas Tech's many other supportive personnel? The principle of harambee applies here: "Pushing forward together." In short, it expands the team in some ways. Thankfully, academic advisors and faculty members and many other support personnel already invest in accomplishing many of the same responsibilities each term. Generally speaking, these efforts are accomplished in response to requests and visits made by students. As you well know, the demands on these personnel, are substantial. So, where they can, PSCs are working to shoulder a small bit of the load. Specifically, you can trust the following is true: These student workers are providing students with an easily- and readily- available listening ear that always ends the conversation with, "The good news is, there's a resource for that." These student workers are able to drum up interest from those students who aren't yet fully capitalizing on the resources of our campus. These student workers are helping students learn to answer their own foundational questions, freeing your students to engage you in higher-level conversations that require the investment of committed and knowledgeable professionals. How do we know this work is happening? All of the Peer Success Coaches' interactions with students are thoroughly documented in the form of Tutoring Appointment reports in the Strive.TTU.edu system. When they send emails, Strive users will see the information logged under students' "Conversations." How do I get a job as a Peer Success Coach? Peer Success Coaches are selected from a competitive group of applicants, developed as if they were professional staff, and employed up to twenty hours per week. Learn more about joining the team as a PSC. Be A PSC Student Success and Retention Initiative Like Student Success and Retention Initiative on FacebookLike Student Success and Retention Initiative on Facebook Follow Student Success and Retention Initiative on twitterFollow Student Success and Retention Initiative on twitter Subscribe to Student Success and Retention Initiative on YouTubeSubscribe to Student Success and Retention Initiative on YouTube Follow Student Success and Retention Initiative on InstagramFollow Student Success and Retention Initiative on Instagram Connect with Student Success and Retention Initiative on LinkedInConnect with Student Success and Retention Initiative on LinkedIn Address 227 Drane Hall, 2515 15th Street, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2028 Phone 806.742.7774 Email success@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 27, 2022 4:57 PM Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Back Campus Resource Guide Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Campus Resource Guide Back Online Guide PDF Guide Advising & Registration Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Advising & Registration Back Ready to Register? Explore Majors ScheduleBuilder.TTU.edu Appointments @ Strive.TTU.edu Registration Errors Explained GradTX - Return and Finish Need Help in a Course? Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Need Help in a Course? Back Send a Message to your Professor Send a Message to your Advisor See what "Success Looks Like ..." Get Supplemental Instruction Schedule Tutoring @Learning Center Increase Your Impact Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Back Service Learning Classes Service Breaks Service Abroad Take it to the Next Level Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Internships Honors Graduate School Law School Health Sciences More Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Back Find a Mentor Ask a Success Coach Student Success and Retention Initiative Students! Find Help Here. Ask a Success Coach Back Peer Success Coaches Professional Success Coaches Plan Your First Year Connect with Other Sophomores Connect with Other Transfer Students Connect with Other First Generation College Students Find a Student Org that Fits Prepare for Career Schedule a Presentation Say, "Thanks!" Advance Student Success Student Success and Retention Initiative Advance Student Success Back Meet & Celebrate Student Success and Retention Initiative Advance Student Success Meet & Celebrate Back Learn About the Provost's Task Force Participate in the Committee for Advising, Retention, & Success (CARS) Involve the Academic First Responder Network Congratulate the Award-Winners Engage & Grow Student Success and Retention Initiative Advance Student Success Engage & Grow Back Review the Literature Find Professional Development Opportunities Become a Licensed Professional Coach Invest in Thought Leadership Utilize & Contribute Student Success and Retention Initiative Advance Student Success Utilize & Contribute Back Explore Our Analytics Review the Advising Knowledgebase Document Your Outreach Contribute Your Ideas Request Financial Support Schedule a Presentation Schedule Training Request Access Request a Configuration Change Report a Problem TTU's Strategies for Success Student Success and Retention Initiative Back Improvement, Innovation, Thought Leadership Student Success and Retention Initiative Improvement, Innovation, Thought Leadership Back Provost's Task Force for Student Success & Retention Committee on Academic Advising & Retention Campus Retention Initiative Inventory Innovation Grants for Colleges Re-Vamp of Advising Awards OR Creation of Success Awards (Provost-Annual) Symposium for Student Success & Retention Idea Inbox for All Student-Facing Resources/Tools Student Success and Retention Initiative Student-Facing Resources/Tools Back Online/Dynamic Campus Resource Guide Visual Schedule Builder Strive.TTU.edu Student Success Collaborative Analysis Peer Success Coaching Team Academic Life Coaching Enrollment Calling Campaign RegHelp (Registration Assistance) Sessions GradTX Outreach Calls/Communications Stakeholder Support Student Success and Retention Initiative Stakeholder Support Back AdviseTech Wiki Knowledgebase Student Early Alert for Faculty & Staff Attendance Data Tracking Institutional Records of Academic Email Faculty Appointment Scheduling & Documentation (EAB SSC-Campus) HR-Based Faculty Training and Support for Strive.TTU.edu SSR-Based Training and Support for Strive.TTU.edu New Faculty Orientation Success Training 30=4 Resource and Potentially Underenrolled Lists Advising Leadership, Communications, & Training Advisor Appointment Scheduling & Documentation (EAB SSC-Campus) Advisor Training and Support for Strive.TTU.edu Administration Training on Strive.TTU.edu Integration of SSR Ticket Management and AdviseTech Knowledgebase Systems Analysis & Project Management Student Success and Retention Initiative Analysis & Project Management Back Historical Analysis of Student Performance (EAB SSC-Campus) Student Progress Report Requests (EAB SSC-Campus) Predictive Analytics for Student Success (EAB SSC-Campus) Enrollment Campaign Contact Lists & Documentation System & Dashboard Enrollment Update Emails for College Leadership SSR Ticket/Project Management System Planned/Proposed Efforts Student Success and Retention Initiative Planned/Proposed Efforts Back ACLU Webinar Courses on Improved Advising Second Year Retention Outreach & Engagement Programming Summer Recovery Program Analysis of Correlation Between Retention & Resources/Interventions DegreeWorks Reports – Mass Audit Improved WiFi Access in High-Traffic Periods/Locations for Students WiFi Usage Analysis (Attendance Proxy for Early Alert Outreach) Coordination of New Campus Success Campaigns "Success-Looks-Like" Promotional Campaign "Summer in the 806" Campaign Student-Oriented Mobile "Nudge" App (EAB SSC-Guide) Research Grants for Discipline-Specific Student Success Studies Creation of Success Recognitions (SSR-Monthly) NACADA Memberships for all TTU Advisors Community Assistant Training Graduate Assistant Training Provost's Representatives to NACADA Annual Conference Formalize Advising Graduate Certificate & Advising Academy About SSR Student Success and Retention Initiative About SSR Back Leadership Student Success and Retention Initiative About SSR Leadership Back Ronald Hendrick, Provost Rob Stewart, Senior Vice Provost Patrick Hughes, Vice Provost Joshua Barron, Director Strategic Plan Student Success and Retention Initiative About SSR Strategic Plan Back 2010 2025 The People Student Success and Retention Initiative About SSR The People Back Success Team Directories SSR Organization Chart Be a PSC The Initiatives Reports, Presentations, & Memos Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index