Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller MBA Experiential Learning Home » Programs » MBA » Experiential Learning Menu MBA Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Our connections to global businesses and startup communities, many of which are located in vibrant Technology Square within the Georgia Tech campus, give you access to unique MBA experiential learning opportunities that will prepare you to lead in the workplace of the future. Learn how to apply academic theory to real business problems, hone your leadership skills, build your network, and acquire hands-on experience to build your confidence to lead innovation. Opportunities in the Full-time MBA Program and Evening MBA Program International Practicum Elective This semester-long elective is designed to give students on-the-ground international consulting experience, and a greater ability to define, analyze, and solve international business problems. You'll work as part of a consulting team for a client based in the U.S. or where the residency will take place. Your team will explore market opportunities abroad or research entering the U.S. market for the client. Clients have included Genius Consulting, HP, IBM, Monarch Beverages, and UPS. The international residency will take place during spring break. Teams have traveled to Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ireland, Japan, Turkey, and Singapore. Information Technology Practicum Elective This elective course provides students with a greater understanding of IT within organizations and the ability to solve technology management problems. Bridging the gap between practical and theoretical knowledge, you'll work as part of a consulting team and apply classroom learning to a real-world IT project. Participating organizations have included IBM, Southern Company, AT&T, and Coca-Cola Enterprises. Real Estate Practicum Elective Designed to give MBAs experience with genuine real estate solutions for Fortune 50 companies, this practicum gets students actively involved in a corporate real estate innovation council. Acting as the research arm of the council, you'll explore ideas such as the workplace of the future, asset monetization, how the built environment impacts productivity, and the impact of emerging technologies. Students present their research to the council at quarterly meetings. Participation has led to internship opportunities with service providers and corporate real estate departments of major global companies. Six Sigma Elective Learn the tools and techniques of Lean Six Sigma employed by leading companies to improve processes and performance. You'll apply its methodology and statistical analysis to a company project. Participating companies have included AT&T, AutoTrader, State Farm, and The Coca-Cola Company. Certification at the Green Belt level, valued in the industry at more than $5,000, is offered as part of the elective course. Pro Bono Consulting Elective An elective class where student teams help local non-profits resolve key strategic challenges. Your team will apply classroom theory and work closely with nonprofits' staff and management to form practical and easy-to-implement solutions. Then, present findings to findings to key organizational decision makers. Clients have included the American Cancer Society, Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, The Sullivan Center, MedShare International, and Art of Living. You'll gain consulting experience in the non-profit sector and enhance your ability to develop actionable solutions, while making a positive social impact. Strategic Management & Integrative Management Experience Project This strategy project is part of the Full-time MBA Integrative Management Experience core class, a team- and project-based course that requires students to draw on all functional areas of business to understand how firms gain and sustain a competitive advantage. You will work on a team and conduct a strategic management analysis of a company, then present findings to company executives. Project companies have included AT&T, Bank of America, CSX, Deloitte, Delta Air Lines, Emerson, Equifax, The Home Depot, McKesson, and Microsoft. You will gain effective strategic leadership skills, an ability to view an organization from a strategic perspective as a general manager or executive and better positioning in the job market for an internship and full-time employment as a consultant or strategist. Board Fellows Program Organized by the College’s Net Impact chapter, the Board Fellows Program prepares MBAs for future roles on a board of directors. You'll serve as non-voting member on Atlanta-area non-profit boards. As a fellow, you'll become better acquainted with board roles and functions, while providing business skills, new insights, and innovative perspectives to non-profit organizations. TI:GER® Program The Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER®) program is a unique educational collaboration between Georgia Tech and Emory Law School. You'll work on an interdiscplinary team of MBA students and Emory University law students to commercialize a Ph.D. student’s technological research. Through projects and coursework, you'll explore the economic, regulatory, and legal mechanisms affecting the venture-creation process. Then apply your knowledge to advance early-stage research into real business opportunities. Upon completion of the program, you will gain the knowledge of what it takes to be a successful entrepreneur, understand market goals at every stage of innovation, and cultivate a network of industry experts, startup CEOs and active venture capital investors. Students have gone on to launch companies, work for startups, or leverage their knowledge in a variety positions at larger companies. TI:GER has very broad career benefits and is a talking point with recruiters that will set you apart. TI:GER is a four-semester program, beginning in the fall. Admitted students interested in the program must complete a separate application. To request an application, contact us online or call the MBA Admissions Office at 404.894.8722. Case Competitions, Student Clubs, and Organizations In case competitions, students have the chance to solve real business problems in team-based environments. Georgia Tech MBA students can compete in areas such as global supply chain, international business, operations, marketing, and sustainable development. Participation is typically organized through MBA clubs. Student clubs and organizations include: Athletics Blacks in Business Consulting Club Entrepreneurship Club Finance Club Graduate Business Council (GBC) Graduate Evening MBA Students (GEMS) International Business Club Investments Club Marketing Club MBA Ambassadors Mentorship Net Impact Operations Management Society Philanthropy Scheller Pride - LGBTQ Plus Allies Strategic Partnerships Strategy & Innovation Technology Management Club Veterans Club Women in Business Opportunities in the Executive MBA Program New Product and Service Launch Project As a member of a small team of MBA–Management of Technology students, you'll select an emerging technology and complete a full business plan, demonstrating your understanding of how to take a technology-driven product or service to market. This powerful integrative experience for the MBA-MoT Program concludes with a juried business plan competition. The Global Strategy Project As an MBA–Global Business student, this Global Strategy Project will be your capstone experience, where you'll work with a company to address an actual issue on a global scale. You'll identify opportunities and make recommendations of how to implement strategies internationally, from product and pricing to procurement, logistics, and management. Opportunities in all MBA Programs IMPACT Speaker Series The IMPACT Speaker Series brings a heavy-hitting lineup of notable business executives, high-tech entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, and intellectual leaders to the College. The series is a popular learning and networking opportunity for Georgia Tech students, alumni, and members of the Atlanta business community. Ideas to Serve Competition Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition is open to current Georgia Tech students and recent alumni who have early stage product/service ideas or venture concepts that are geared towards creating a better world. I2S is primarily a competition of ideas where creativity, imagination, and technology are applied to solving social and/or environmental problems. Organized by the Institute for Leadership and Entrepreneurship at the Scheller College of Business, it aims to foster the development of organizations that are focused on the “triple bottom line,” showing concern for social and environmental outcomes as well as for economic return on investment. Related Links Full-time MBA Curriculum Evening MBA Curriculum Executive MBA Curriculum IMPACT Speaker Series Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures