Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Rawls College of Business Menu Search Accelerated BBA to MSA The AACSB-accredited Accelerated Bachelor's-to-Master's in Accounting program allows current Rawls College students to acquire both undergraduate and graduate accounting degrees in less than five years. The 150-credit hour program will provide highly motivated students with a competitive edge in the industry as they compete for professional accounting positions in business, government and the public sector. Application Requirements Request Information <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Non-current Rawls College Students Individuals who are not currently enrolled in the undergraduate accounting program at Rawls College should apply to our traditional MSA program. Explore the MSA program » program highlights Competitive Internship Opportunities Through an on-site recruiting process specifically designed for accounting students in their third year of the program, Meet the Firms, allows students to interview for competitive internship opportunities with top employers. CPA Success Our program not only prepares you to sit for the CPA exam, but to also achieve scores above the national average. High Job Placement Rates Nearly 100 percent of our graduates are employed full-time within six months of graduation. Many begin their careers with top accounting firms or competitive industry partners such as EY, Deloitte, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Grant Thornton, ConocoPhillips, Lockheed Martin and more. Career-Defining Curriculum A balanced blend of research and real-world applications, our comprehensive undergraduate and graduate curriculum will help you master principles in auditing, taxation, cost accounting, and financial accounting. Upon graduation, you will have the competitive knowledge and skills sought-after by top firms as they identify future leaders, partners and executives. View a sample degree plan » customized learning experience In addition to developing a common body of knowledge in accounting, students must choose one of two areas of concentration. Audit In the audit concentration, students take courses geared toward becoming a professional in the audit and assurance industry. Core classes include: Data Analytics for Accountants Accounting Research and Communication Introduction to Data Analytics Auditing Theory and Practice Analysis of Financial Accounting Information Taxation The taxation concentration prepares students for a career as a tax professional or tax consultant in a wide variety of organizations. Core classes include: Data and Analytics for Tax Accountants International Taxation Federal Income Tax Law for Partnerships Estate and Gift Taxation Income Tax Research and Planning program format Our 150-credit hour program allows students to graduate with a bachelor's and master's degree simultaneously, within five years. Rawls College undergraduate accounting students are encouraged to apply to the accelerated bachelor's-to-master's program as soon as they have completed 100 hours of undergraduate coursework, which typically occurs during their fourth year. Once admitted into the program, undergraduate students work with an advisor to add graduate coursework to their academic schedule. faculty Our accounting faculty members are dedicated teachers and highly regarded researchers who are advancing scholarship in the accounting discipline. Their areas of expertise include environmental accounting, oil and gas accounting, behavioral research in financial accounting and auditing, tax, accounting information systems and more. Meet our faculty » supporting your success Rawls Career Management Center Whether you are looking to switch careers or advance on your current path, the Rawls Career Management Center (CMC) is dedicated to supporting your success. The staff in the CMC can help you explore professions and industries, learn strategic career advancement techniques, and connect you with top employers. Techsan Connection The Techsan Connection is a free, online platform for Texas Tech alumni. Through the platform, alumni can apply to jobs, reconnect with fellow classmates, network with industry professionals and volunteer to mentor current students. alumni success We invite you to meet a few of our graduates who have followed their passions, built outstanding careers and serve as leading accounting professionals in today's business world. ❝ I was drawn to the accounting program at Rawls College because it was a proven program. The job placement rate was high, and students who had completed the program left knowledgeable and prepared.❞ Dria Carter Graduate, 2020 admissions The admission process is the first step toward earning your degree. We will work closely with you to ensure your application process is personal, simple and successful. Automatic Admission Current, Rawls College undergraduate accounting students qualify for automatic admission into the accelerated bachelor's-to-master's program if they meet the following requirements: Will have completed at least 100 hours of undergraduate coursework by the beginning of the semester in which you will begin the graduate program Have not withdrawn from an accounting course or retaken an upper-division accounting course for grade replacement more than one time Must make a B or better in ACCT 3305 Have not taken a Credit Received Have a GPA of 3.25 or higher in four upper-division accounting course that include ACCT 3304, ACCT 3305 Have a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 at the time of your application Traditional Admission If you do not meet the requirements for automatic admission, you will be required to complete a traditional application, requiring additional supplemental materals. Application Deadlines While the dates below are deadlines for admission, students are highly encouraged to submit their application as soon as they meet the admissions criteria and their most recent grades have posted. domestic Fall Entry: August 10 Spring Entry: December 16* international Fall Entry: January 15 *Applicants applying for spring entry must have already secured an internship to be completed during the spring or summer of their admission. Begin Your Application automatic admission application You will be required to submit the following materials alongside your application: Unofficial Transcripts Applicants must submit unofficial transcripts from any degree-awarding college or university. Short Answer Question Is there anything else the admissions committee needs to know when considering your application? When completing your application, be sure to select On-Campus when asked how you will take the majority of your classes, and select Accelerated Bachelor/Master for your program level. When asked which program you are applying to, select either Accounting - Audit (MSA) - Accelerated - Automatic or Accounting - Tax (MSA) - Accelerated – Automatic based on your desired concentration. Apply Now traditional admission application If you do not meet the requirements for automatic admission, you will be required to submit the following materials alongside your application: Unofficial Transcripts Applicants must submit unofficial transcripts from any degree-awarding college or university. Resume Applicants must submit a detailed current resume, indicating work experience—including start and end dates (month and year) for each position held. Provide accomplishments and skills acquired through jobs, campus involvement and volunteer service. Letters of Recommendation Applicants are required to submit two formal letters of recommendation from individuals who know you in an academic capacity. Personal Statement Applicants must submit a minimum of one page, addressing one or more of the following: Describe your short and long-term goals and how this degree will help you achieve them. Describe a personal leadership experience or achievement. Describe a problem-solving activity in which you were involved as a member of a team and how you contributed to a solution. Describe a major challenge or past failure and how you overcame it. Short Answer Question Is there anything else the admissions committee needs to know when considering your application? When completing your application, be sure to select On-Campus when asked how you will take the majority of your classes, and select Accelerated Bachelor/Master for your program level. When asked which program you are applying to, select either Accounting - Audit (MSA) - Accelerated – Traditional or Accounting - Tax (MSA) - Accelerated – Traditional based on your desired concentration. Apply Now student resources Prospective Students Current Students FAQs Admissions Junior Perez 806.834.4575 Advising Jennifer Principe 806.742.3171 Program Information John Masselli 806.834.2391 Scholarships Contact rawls.msa@ttu.edu Rawls News May 18th, 2022 Rawls College Students Compete in the Fourth Annual Sales & Customer Relationship Strategy Competition More News Events@Rawls More Events Contact DirectoryContact Directory Directory News for NewsNews for News News EventsEvents Events HeartHeart Give Guns Up!Guns Up! Merchandise Rawls College of Business Like Rawls College of Business on FacebookLike Rawls College of Business on Facebook Follow Rawls College of Business on twitterFollow Rawls College of Business on twitter Subscribe to Rawls College of Business on YouTubeSubscribe to Rawls College of Business on YouTube Follow Rawls College of Business on FlickrFollow Rawls College of Business on Flickr Follow Rawls College of Business on InstagramFollow Rawls College of Business on Instagram Connect with Rawls College of Business on LinkedInConnect with Rawls College of Business on LinkedIn Address Rawls College of Business, Box 42101, 703 Flint Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3188 Email ba_webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 11, 2022 12:58 PM Rawls College of Business About Rawls College of Business Back Welcome Rawls College of Business Back Accreditation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Jerry S. Rawls Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Leadership Rawls College of Business Back Dean Margaret L. Williams Associate Deans Deans Gallery Resources Rawls College of Business Back Building Information Directory Rawls College of Business Directory Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Ph.D. Student Directory Marketing & Communications Office of Engagement Rawls Technology Services Staff & Faculty Intranet Wall Street Journal Academics Rawls College of Business Back Areas Rawls College of Business Back Accounting Energy Commerce & Business Economics Finance Information Systems & Quantitative Sciences Management Marketing & Supply Chain Management Undergraduate Programs Rawls College of Business Back Majors Certificates Excellence in Banking Rawls Summer Business Institute Scovell Business Leadership Program Graduate Programs Rawls College of Business Back Explore Programs MBA Programs M.S. Programs Doctoral Programs Dual Degree Programs Graduate Certificates Professional Programs Rawls College of Business Back School of Banking Consortium for the Advancement of Research Methods and Analysis (CARMA) Students Rawls College of Business Back Prospective Undergraduate Rawls College of Business Back Explore Majors Why Rawls College? Scholarships Request Information Visit Campus Become a Rawls Student Apply Now Prospective Graduate Rawls College of Business Back Explore Programs Request Information Apply Now Current Students Rawls College of Business Back Undergraduate Advising Careers & Internships Study Abroad Student Organizations Share Feedback with Rawls College Scholarships Testing Center Wall Street Journal Mediasite Recordings Student Centers Rawls College of Business Back Undergraduate Services Center Career Management Center Center for Global Engagement Center for Sales & Customer Relationship Excellence Georgie G. Snyder Center for Business Communication Rawls Technology Services Recruiters & Companies Rawls College of Business Back Recruit at Rawls College Rawls College of Business Back Career Management Center Placement Statistics Corporate Sponsors Employer Resources Handshake Faculty & Research Rawls College of Business Back Faculty Rawls College of Business Back Faculty Directory Chairs & Professorships Jerry S. Rawls Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Awards Research Rawls College of Business Back Research News Events Faculty Publications Research Lab Shannon Rinaldo Student Research Pool Rawls Undergraduate Research Program Centers & Institutes Rawls College of Business Back Center for Entrepreneurship & Family Business Center for Real Estate Center for Sales & Customer Relationship Excellence eLearning Center Free Market Institute Institute for Leadership Research E.W. and J. David Williams Institute for Community Banking and Finance CARMA Rawls College of Business Back About Join CARMA Event Schedule Short Courses Contact Alumni & Friends Rawls College of Business Back Engagement & External Relations Rawls College of Business Back Get Involved Stay Informed Awards Techsan Connection Advisory Council Rawls Outfitters Giving Rawls College of Business Back Why Give? Giving Opportunities Smart Giving Give Now Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index