Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Morrissey College Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Arts Council Menu Main Nav Arts Council Arts Council Back Back Close About Overview Contact History News & Notes Arts Council Awards Alumni Arts Circle Events and Initiatives Overview Arts Festival Arts Festival 2020 Exhibition: Out of the Studios Salmanowitz Social Justice Film Screenings Fairy Tales for Free Literary Arts Arts and Social Justice Careers in the Arts Gallery 203 Student Arts Coalition Week of Dance Get Involved Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Events and Initiatives Arts and Social Justice Events and Initiatives Arts Festival Arts and Social Justice Careers in the Arts Gallery 203 Student Arts Coalition Week of Dance Arts and Social Justice From 2008 until 2015, the Arts and Social Responsibility Project sowed the seeds for pairing the arts with social justice issues. Times have changed. The need for social engagement has only become more urgent. Taking lessons from the earlier programs, we help promote new initiative that actively engage the arts in collaborative work across campus with a mission for humanitarian and justice issues. Past programs and projects included the Boston College chapter of the Artists Striving to End Poverty (ASTEP), The Arts and Social Responsibility Project 2008-2015 (ASRP), Music Education Outreach, Climate SmART, as well as special film screenings, lectures, performances and numerous student services projects. Please contact us if you would like to work with the Arts Council in creating, promoting or collaborating on an arts program that engages with social justice issues. Proposals must demonstrate how art can serve as communication, marketing, activism, education and/or therapy, and seeks to engage students, artists, scholars and faculty along with audience members in the creation of art and performance as a means to shape positive change in today’s society. Current programs: Prison Arts Outreach Arts and Social Justice Freshman Internship Contact the Arts Council Prison Arts Outreach The Prison Arts Outreach program is an opportunity for Boston College students to share their artistic gifts and talents with incarcerated persons. Whether you’re into sketch comedy, hip hop dancing, or just jamming out on your guitar, Prison Arts Outreach offers a way to share your artistic passion in a meaningful way. As part of the program you’ll meet regularly with BC men and women on campus to develop fun and creative workshops for people in local prisons. During this year long program you’ll travel to the prisons as a group to provide incarcerated persons with an interactive experience in art, dancing, music, and the dramatic arts. “In the past it's been really difficult when you're stuck in a classroom or stuck in a theatre to understand what it means to actually do this type of work. Being able to get out there and learn hands-on, and also get real human feedback about how something that's been really impactful in my life, which is the arts, can now impact other people. ” Jennifer Martin '13 Contact the Prison Arts Outreach Program Volunteers Orientation Workshops Any student, undergraduate or graduate, faculty or staff may apply to be a volunteer. They must be willing to lead or help facilitate workshops in any of the areas of theatre, improvisation, dance, music, art or creative writing. Volunteers must commit to the following activities: Attend the one day educational retreat mid-September. Help organize the themes of each of the workshops. For example, one workshop might focus on teaching step dancing while another may be working on theatre, acting out scenes, or voice lessons. Attend the orientation at the prison where you will be volunteering. Participate in workshops throughout the semester Tuesday nights: approximately 5 PM to 8:30 PM including travel time (Need most volunteers here) Sunday afternoons: approximately 1 PM to 5 PM including travel time Adhere to the dress codes at the prison facility. Click here for the dress code. Attend the retreat and reflection at the end of the academic year. Student volunteers will be chosen through an interview process in early September. Prison volunteer orientation is necessary to acheive approval for your repeated entrance into the prison facility. It takes about 2 hours, plus travel time. You will be informed well in advance of orientation times and given a form to fill out. You must attend. No exceptions. There is also a link to the orientation handbook here. The Prison Arts Outreach provides access to sustained and quality educational experiences in all the arts to contribute to the positive development of incarcerated persons. Volunteers will plan the topics of the workshops at the retreats in the beginning and end of the year and sign up for participation in a specific workshop. Workshops will be either Tuesday nights or Sunday afternoons for an entire semester. Transportation is provided. Back To Top Back To Top Arts Council Office of the Arts Council Rubenstein Hall, Office 4 617-552-6500 arts@bc.edu Facebook Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College