Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Major Apply Visit Request More Info Music Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Music The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Music in Temple's Boyer College of Music and Dance integrates a comprehensive liberal arts education with a rigorous music-generalist curriculum. Coursework and internship opportunities prepare you for diverse careers in music editing, journalism and publishing, as well as fields such as law, library science and medicine, among many others. While a more performance-based degree program trains students to be professional musicians, Music BS students learn to think analytically, creatively and critically about music. The 124-credit academic degree program’s dynamic curriculum includes classes that span music history and theory to digital composition of classical and electronic music. Since much of the required coursework comprises general education and music electives, students have the flexibility to choose courses that complement their career goals and interests. The Music BS helps you to acquire the skills you’ll need in your professional endeavors and graduate school; express yourself creatively; and gain a broad understanding of music and its place in society. The Music Studies Department is a small, close-knit community. Small class sizes and one-on-one mentorships with faculty mean students receive guidance throughout their time in the bachelor's degree program. Boyer faculty are nationally and internationally recognized educators, performers, scholars, and Grammy- and Bessie-award winners. Learn more about the Music BS faculty. In your final year, you’ll complete an intensive internship placement to gain hands-on field experience in the music industry. Temple’s Main Campus is in close proximity to many highly regarded institutions, including the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, Opera Philadelphia and The Philadelphia Orchestra. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Classes & Curriculum Students study music and the important role it has played in societies around the world. You’ll take a blend of elective, ensemble, general education, music history, music theory, performance and world music courses. In your final year, you’ll complete an internship in the music industry over one semester, with the option for two. With the flexibility to include both general and music electives, students can tailor their curriculum to meet their professional interests or form the pathway for graduate studies. Some of the required courses include Latin American Music Ensemble, Music in History, Music Theory and World Music. Learn more about the required courses for the Music BS. Related Graduate Degrees Music Composition MM Music History MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Cynthia Folio is a professor of music theory and chair of the Music Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8316 Email: cynthia.folio@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUSC-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info