Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Policies Policies Ask A Librarian Policy Florida State University Libraries Ask A Librarian chat service is intended primarily for students, faculty, and staff of FSU. Borrowing Permit Policy Special Borrowing Permits for the Strozier, Dirac Science, Engineering, Goldstein, College of Law, and Maguire Medical Libraries are available. Course Reserves Policy When placing items on electronic reserve, Florida State University Libraries strive to follow the United States Copyright Act of 1976. Filming and Photography in the Library Policy Filming and photography inside Strozier, Dirac, and Engineering Libraries is strictly prohibited without the approval of the FSU Libraries Marketing and Communications Director. Fines and Late Return Reimbursements Policy All patrons are responsible for returning library materials on or before the date the material is due. Due dates can be found online by logging in to your library account. Food and Drink Policy Strozier and Dirac Library welcomes students, faculty and staff to bring food and drink into the library with the exception of designated areas. Laptop Checkout Policy Laptops and laptop peripherals (power cords) may only be checked to current FSU students, faculty and staff with a valid FSU Card. Library Tutoring Policy FSU Libraries are proud to provide free tutoring for currently enrolled FSU students. Our tutors are not professors nor are they experts in their field; they are students. Noise Policy FSU Libraries are committed to providing an environment that is conducive to study as well as welcoming to all users. Posting in the Libraries Policy Posting is when one affixes to a usual place (as a wall) for public notices. Reciprocal Services Policy Reciprocal Borrowing at Florida Public Colleges and Universities, OCLC Reciprocal Faculty Borrowing Program, and thre Reciprocal Wireless Access. Scholars Commons Instruction Room The Scholars Commons Instruction Room is primarily intended for the use of library-facilitated instruction and events. Special Collections Camera Use Policy Photographs of collections may be taken in the Special Collections Reading Room under the supervision of the reading room staff, Researchers must sign a form before taking any images. Study Room Policy Group Study Rooms and Individual Study Rooms, in Strozier and Dirac libraries. Includes Extended Study Rooms. Technology & Media Circulation Policy In-Library Use equipment is available to patrons upon request and is first come, first served. The patron must provide a valid FSUCard in order to receive equipment. Unaccompanied Minor Policy University Libraries welcome patrons of all ages. However, materials in our collections may not be appropriate for children. Use of University Information Technology Resources Policy All uses of University IT resources are subject to applicable rules, policies and procedures of the University. Administration Links Dean's Welcome Employment at FSU Libraries Values Staff Directory About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!