Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Graduate School COVID-19 Policies Public Lectures Quick Links Admission Find a Program Apply Now Plan Ahead for Grad School Understanding the Application Process Application Fee Waivers Students/Post-Docs Degree Requirements U501: Graduate School Orientation Core Programs—Office of Graduate Student Affairs Postdoctoral Affairs MyGrad Program Student Dates & Deadlines Faculty/Staff Creating/Modifying Programs Graduate School Council Program Review GPA/GPC Resources GPA/GPC Dates & Deadlines MyGrad Department View MyGrad Committee View Find Graduate Faculty Academic Affairs & Planning Office Diversity Programs & Resources GSEE: Graduate Student Equity & Excellence Diversity Funding Opportunities Diversity Reports UW Race & Equity Initiative >> Funding For Students For Departments Interdisciplinary About Graduate School COVID-19 Information What Is Graduate Education? What We Do Awards & Recognitions Calendar of Events Leadership Directory Student & Alumni Profiles Policies & Procedures Statistics & Reports Support the Graduate School UW Graduate School Menu Admission Find a Program Apply Now Plan Ahead for Grad School Understanding the Application Process Application Fee Waivers Students/Post-Docs Degree Requirements U501: Graduate School Orientation Core Programs—Office of Graduate Student Affairs Postdoctoral Affairs MyGrad Program Student Dates & Deadlines Faculty/Staff Creating/Modifying Programs Graduate School Council Program Review GPA/GPC Resources GPA/GPC Dates & Deadlines MyGrad Department View MyGrad Committee View Find Graduate Faculty Academic Affairs & Planning Office Diversity Programs & Resources GSEE: Graduate Student Equity & Excellence Diversity Funding Opportunities Diversity Reports UW Race & Equity Initiative >> Funding For Students For Departments Interdisciplinary About Graduate School COVID-19 Information What Is Graduate Education? What We Do Awards & Recognitions Calendar of Events Leadership Directory Student & Alumni Profiles Policies & Procedures Statistics & Reports Support the Graduate School Home UW Graduate School Equity & Justice in Graduate Programs GSEE: Graduate Student Equity & Excellence Undocumented Graduate Students Undocumented Graduate Students Close Menu Home GSEE: Graduate Student Equity & Excellence 50 Years of GSEE (formerly GO-MAP) GSEE’S 2021 VIRTUAL YEARBOOK Student Resources What is GSEE? Programming and Events Virtual Visit Days GSEE Fellows Graduate Student Advisory Board Undocumented Graduate Students Recruitment and Retention Guide Outreach Recruitment Retention Paying for Graduate School Toolkit Outreaching Grads Program Contact GSEE Sign up for the GSEE Newsletter The Office of Graduate Student Equity & Excellence (GSEE) of the University of Washington Graduate School has compiled information and resources for departments and individuals seeking status (self-identified DREAMers, HB 1079 eligible, and/or DACA approved). Departments: Please review Undocumented Terms and Definitions. For more information, contact GSEE at gomap@uw.edu or 206.543.9016. Undocumented individuals are eligible for admission to any graduate program at the University of Washington. UW President Cauce reassures “every affected person that if DACA ends, the University of Washington will do everything within its power to minimize the disruption to your lives and education. We also support all efforts to restore the protections that DACA has provided, including legal actions […] Students, faculty or staff seeking individual guidance can find resources at UW Leadership Without Borders Center or by emailing undocu@uw.edu. Read the complete statement > Safe Space We would like to remind graduate students that GSEE provides a safe space for all students, including those seeking status. We encourage you to contact us if you would like to speak with someone to express your concerns regarding the current sociopolitical climate or to be in solidarity with folks that have your best interest at heart. Please review the third paragraph in UW President Ana Mari Cauce’s message: “A safe and welcoming place for all” as a reminder that you do belong at the UW. Diversity at the University of Washington At the University of Washington, diversity is integral to excellence. We value and honor diverse experiences and perspectives, strive to create welcoming and respectful learning environments, and promote, access, opportunity and justice for all. Read more about diversity at the University of Washington > Completing the UW Graduate School Application To apply to a UW graduate program, complete the UW Graduate School application. Please note that the UW Graduate School application and the information provided by GSEE does not apply to the following UW professional schools: School of Dentistry, School of Law, School of Medicine, and School of Pharmacy. Please contact those schools directly for more information. New applicants will be asked to “Create your applicant profile.” Undocumented students should answer the following questions in this way: Question 8: What is your current citizenship/visa status? Answer: Other: F-1/F-2; J-1/J-2; H-1B/H-4; L-1/L-2; TN/TD; K-1; undocumented; DACA Question 12: If currently living in the U.S., indicate present visa status (if you don’t presently have a visa, select “None”). Answer: None Question 13: What type of visa status do you expect to hold while you are studying at the UW (if you don’t expect to have a visa, select “None”)? Answer: None An undocumented student should be cautioned that they will be sorted into “international student” application status. If you are a Washington State resident, you will have an opportunity to change your residency status once admitted. 3. When applicants are ready to submit their application, there is an opportunity to apply for an application fee waiver. A limited number of application fee waivers are available to applicants who qualify for financial need. Fee waiver requests must be submitted in the online admission application after all steps of the application have been completed and at least seven calendar days prior to the program’s posted application deadline. Please visit the Application Fee and Fee Waivers section for more information > Funding for Undocumented Graduate Students UW departments are encouraged to review their individual funding resources in detail to determine if undocumented students (that may or may not be DACA approved) are eligible. There are numerous non-federal resources (i.e. state dollars and private grants) that departments can explore to determine eligibility. Undocumented students with a DACA work permit can legally work in the United States. However, they are not eligible to apply for federal funding through the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If an undocumented graduate student has DACA, they are eligible for Academic Student Employee positions, including teaching assistantships (TAs), research assistantships (RAs), and staff assistantships (GSAs). Read more on assistantships > This table provides additional funding information determined by undocumented status eligibility: UNDOCUMENTED STATUS TUITION CLASSIFICATION FUNDING ELIGIBILITY HB 1079 and DACA Approved Resident Tuition Private scholarships and personal financial resources Non-federal AND some federal departmental resources GSEE Funding GSFEI Top Scholar Awards RA/TA/GSA Positions HB 1079 not DACA Approved Resident Tuition Private scholarships and personal financial resources Non-federal departmental resources GSEE Funding GSFEI Top Scholar Awards DACA Approved but not HB 1079 Eligible Non-Resident Tuition Private scholarships and personal financial resources Non-federal AND some federal departmental resources GSEE Funding GSFEI Top Scholar Awards RA/TA/GSA Positions Neither HB 1079 nor DACA Approved Non-Resident Tuition Private scholarships and personal financial resources Non-federal departmental resources GSEE Funding GSFEI Top Scholar Awards Student Support Services for Undocumented Students The Office of Graduate Student Equity & Excellence (GSEE) is committed to serving the needs of underrepresented minoritized graduate students to enhance equity and graduate student success. GSEE encourages prospective and current undocumented graduate students to contact the GSEE office to get acquainted with our services and student programming. For more information, call 206.543.9016 or email gomap@uw.edu. The Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center (ECC) has been a place where undergraduate and graduate students can build community with a diverse group of students who may share similar backgrounds and worldviews. This is a center dedicated to inclusion and offers leadership development, education on social justice, advising for registered student organizations, and a strong commitment to diversity programming. The ECC houses Leadership Without Borders. For more information, please contact undocu@uw.edu. Home GSEE: Graduate Student Equity & Excellence 50 Years of GSEE (formerly GO-MAP) GSEE’S 2021 VIRTUAL YEARBOOK Student Resources What is GSEE? Programming and Events Virtual Visit Days GSEE Fellows Graduate Student Advisory Board Undocumented Graduate Students Recruitment and Retention Guide Outreach Recruitment Retention Paying for Graduate School Toolkit Outreaching Grads Program Contact GSEE Sign up for the GSEE Newsletter Search for: Upcoming Events Upcoming Events Support the Graduate School University of Washington Be boundless Facebook Twitter Instagram UW LINKS UW Home Page Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA