Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Periodontics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Periodontics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Periodontics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Graduate Certificate in Periodontics The Graduate Program in Periodontology at Temple University's Kornberg School of Dentistry provides qualified dentists with specialized clinical training and evidence-based education in all facets of periodontology and dental implantology. The curriculum places an emphasis on a wide range of osseous, regenerative and periodontal plastic surgical techniques as well as all aspects of surgical oral implantology. Students earn a graduate certificate in Periodontics and a simultaneous Master of Science on Oral Health Sciences, which is a requirement of the program. The rigorous 36-month, full-time postgraduate program prepares students for practice, teaching and research in periodontology and oral implantology. You will receive advanced education related to the attachment apparatus of the dentition, and the diseases and conditions that affect them. You’ll also study the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of those diseases. Fully accredited by the American Dental Association Commission on Dental Accreditation, the Periodontology and Oral Implantology program’s curriculum comprises didactic coursework, which takes place primarily within the first year and integrates scientific periodontal and oral implantology literature with oral health sciences coursework. You will perform individual research and receive clinical instruction in Kornberg’s Graduate Clinic of Periodontology and Oral Implantology, gaining real-world experience with treating a diverse patient population. The program’s emphasis on clinical patient care ensures competency in all areas of periodontal therapy including contemporary approaches to anti-infective periodontal chemotherapy; resective, regenerative and periodontal plastic surgical techniques; surgical oral implantology including guided surgery; advanced site preparation techniques; sinus lift augmentation surgery; and interpretation and use of cone beam computed tomography. The Kornberg School of Dentistry is a highly sought, accredited institution located in the heart of Philadelphia. In addition to the unique opportunities that come with attending school in a large city, including visiting lecture series and an abundant and diverse patient pool, the postgraduate Periodontology program offers collaboration with a large DMD student population; internationally recognized faculty; modern, spacious clinics; the Oral Microbiology Testing Service Laboratory—the only nationally based diagnostic periodontal microbiology testing service in the U.S. providing microbial culture and antibiotic susceptibility analysis of subgingival biofilm bacteria; and various research opportunities. The Department of Periodontology and Oral Implantology faculty participate in research at the forefront of the field. Recent research studies include the following. Analysis of antibiotic resistance patterns in major periodontal pathogens Analysis of antimicrobial activity of iodine-based mouth rinses against periodontal bacterial pathogens Evaluation of a rapid biologic indicator system for monitoring dental instrument sterilization Evaluation of genetic factors in molar-incisor pattern periodontitis Examination of titanium particle release during laser-assisted debridement of implants exhibiting peri-implantitis Exploration of silver diamine fluoride antimicrobial effects against subgingival periodontal pathogens Learn more about current research at Kornberg. Oral Health Sciences MS Students in the Graduate Program in Periodontics apply for the Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences upon acceptance to the program. In this 30-credit postgraduate master’s program, students apply modern biological principles and research techniques that aid in diagnosing, treating and preventing oral and craniofacial diseases and anomalies. Through the interdisciplinary curriculum, students study the structure, development and function of oral tissues; their interrelationships; and their connections to other organ systems. Research areas include advanced general dentistry, clinical fields, and periodontal and craniofacial regeneration. The program’s Clinical Specialty Track is specifically tailored for postgraduate students currently enrolled in an advanced training certificate in the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Coursework in students’ postgraduate certificate programs count toward the required 30 credits for the Oral Health Sciences MS degree. Learn more about the Oral Health Sciences MS. Program Format Graduate periodontology students matriculate at the beginning of July each year and must remain in continuous residence for the entire program. Part-time options are not available. Classes & Curriculum The comprehensive program combines core required courses in periodontology and oral implantology with various courses in the oral health sciences. Clinical work and research are intended to give you advanced experience in a hospital setting and an understanding and compassion for patients. Students are required to take the following courses. Classical Periodontal Literature Review Conscious Sedation Current Periodontal Literature Review Introduction to Postgraduate Periodontology Oral Implantology Literature Review Periodontology Case Presentations Practice Teaching in Periodontology Learn more about the requirements for the Periodontics Graduate Program. Related Professional Degrees Dentistry DMD Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Dental Public Health Endodontics Orthodontics Careers Students who graduate from the Periodontology program are well-prepared to pursue a specialized career in periodontics—in academics, administration, clinical and private practice, and research. Graduates have expertise in periodontics and oral biology, and they have the experience and compassion necessary for a patient-centered practice. Career Development Through the Office of Student Affairs, students pursuing careers in dentistry can get counseling and support during their tenure at Kornberg and after they graduate. The office regularly hosts career events and guest speakers covering a wide range of topics including corporate and private practice careers, debt management, general practice residencies, military service, and specialty education. Once enrolled in the Periodontics Certificate (Graduate) program, you will receive regular notifications about career opportunities. Additionally, the school provides a list of job opportunities that is updated regularly for dental professionals across the U.S. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Certificate in Dentistry offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about the tuition rates for the 2021–2022 academic year. Program Contact Yueh Ju Hsiao is the director of the Periodontology Specialty Certificate graduate program. Phone: 215-707-7667 Email: hsiaoyj@temple.edu Accreditation The program in periodontics is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The Commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at (312) 440-4653 or at 211 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611. The Commission’s web address is: http://www.ada.org/en/coda. The Commission on Dental Accreditation has accredited the program in periodontics. However, accreditation of the program does not in itself constitute recognition of any dental specialty status. DN-PERG-DENT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Periodontics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply