Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Athletics and Physical Education Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Athletics and Physical Education admitted students home Department of Athletics and PE Nelson Fitness Center 225 Hope Street (401) 863-5100 www.brownrec.com www.brownbears.com Through the recreation fee, Brown graduate students have access to the University’s recreational athletics facilities and are admitted to home sporting events free of charge. Information about purchasing guest passes or memberships for spouses, partners, and children is available through Recreation Membership. Following, you will find a listing of our recreational offerings as well as our facilities on campus. Additional information is available through the websites provided. A Brown student ID is required to access all campus facilities. Intramural Sports (additional fees apply) The intramural sports program offers team, dual, and individual activities to more than 3,500 participants in the Brown community. Sports include flag football, soccer, basketball, softball, ice hockey, volleyball, inner tube water polo, ultimate frisbee, tennis, squash, cornhole, spike ball, dodgeball, and badminton. Special events include a golf scramble, as well as tournaments in dodgeball, kickball, and outdoor volleyball. Teams and free agents are encouraged to participate. Club Sports At Brown University, we consider the Club Sports program to be a vital component of our university community. Club Sports offers an important outlet for students who seek a higher level of competition than on-campus Intramural Sports provide, without the rigorous time constraints required of varsity sports’ student-athletes. Club sports hold practices on or around campus, along with having competitions on and off campus. Brown University, through the Department of Athletics and Recreation, provides some financial and logistical support to their club sports for lodging, transportation, and campus facility reservations in order to allow our club sports to thrive. We currently offer 37 different club sports, which can be visited on the Club Sports registration page. Fitness Group Fitness The Group Fitness Program offers a variety of aerobic, fitness, and mind/body classes to students and Recreation Members with a Group Fitness pass. The Group Fitness pass provides unlimited access to classes on a drop-in basis. Classes are offered seven days per week, beginning as early as 6:00 a.m. Classes are led by quality instructors who hold certifications through nationally accredited organizations including the American Council on Exercise and Aerobics and Fitness Association of America. Classes follow the academic calendar and are offered in four sessions: Fall, Winter Session, Spring, and Summer. For the most current and up-to-date schedule and programming please visit Brownrec. Personal Training (additional fees apply) Personal Training is offered to all students and recreation members in single, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and small-group training options. Personal training sessions are 60 minutes of individualized program design. Fitness consultations are conducted by the Fitness and Wellness Coordinator prior to beginning a training program. The consultation includes a review of health history information, health/fitness goals, and assessments including height, weight, body fat analysis, BMI, blood pressure, and resting heart rate. Erickson Athletic Complex The Olney-Margolies Athletic Center (OMAC) The OMAC is an 86,000 square foot facility that was dedicated in 1981 and houses many coach and recreation staff offices as well as an indoor track. The following facilities are available for recreational use: An 8-lane sprint and six-lane running track, three basketball courts, two volleyball courts, and two badminton courts. Nelson Fitness Center The Nelson Fitness Center is a large, state-of-the-art recreational fitness facility available to the Brown community. It features a 12,000 square foot multi-purpose fitness loft with more than 85 cardio machines, 1,2000 pounds of free weights, selectorized equipment, a functional training/stretch area, and three fitness studios (including a dedicated spinning room). The facility also features dedicated locker rooms for faculty and staff, general use locker rooms for students and staff, a gender-inclusive single occupancy locker room and a social space in the lobby that includes a cafe. It is the country’s largest solar-thermal installation, including 168 panels that provide 10 percent of the building’s energy needs. Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center The Aquatics Center has an eight-lane, 50-meter pool with seven and one half foot-wide lanes and non-turbulent lane lines. For a 25-yard configuration, the competition course consists of 8-25 yard lanes from bulkhead to bulkhead in nine feet of water. A system of movable bulkheads allows for simultaneous activities by different groups and maximizes pool use. The facility has a seating capacity for 400 spectators and a state-of-the-art video HD scoreboard. The pool is considered among the fastest in the Northeast. It is solar-powered, with 168 dual-technology solar panels located on the roof providing enough electric and thermal energy to power the pool lights and regulate water temperature. Aquatics instructional programs offer students and Recreation Members small-group instruction in beginning, intermediate and advanced swimming skills. Classes offered in the program are progressive in nature, and are scheduled in both the fall and spring semesters. The Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center is also home to Brown's swimming, diving, and water polo teams. The Ittleson Quadrangle A large landscaped green space connecting the facilities of the Erickson Athletic Complex. Pizzitola The Pizzitola Sports Center is the varsity competition court for men’s and women’s basketball, volleyball, wrestling, and gymnastics with seating for 2,800. Pizzitola is also home to men’s and women’s tennis and squash. The squash courts and indoor tennis courts are available for recreational use via online reservation: Tennis court reservations Squash court reservations Meehan Auditorium Meehan is the venue for varsity ice hockey as well as club sports, intramural and recreational skating. For more information, including recreational skate times, visit the Meehan Auditorium webpage. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University