Skip to main content Online Bachelor of Arts in Integrated Social Sciences Contact Us University of Washington University of Washington About About the UW Student Resources Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Faculty Online Learning Costs & Aid Admissions Info Sessions & Events Careers Student Stories Contact Us Menu About About the UW Student Resources Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Faculty Online Learning Costs & Aid Admissions Info Sessions & Events Careers Student Stories Contact Us Featured Story Slideshow Online Bachelor of Arts in Integrated Social Sciences Full Time or Part Time / 100% Online A UW Degree Is Within Your Reach You’re ready to finish your college degree — why not do it at a world-class public university? In the online Bachelor of Arts in Integrated Social Sciences program at the University of Washington, you can accomplish your goal and change your life with a top-notch educational experience. Studying the social sciences enables you to understand how complex groups and societies function, interact and change. As today’s workplace and vital job skills evolve at breakneck speed, you'll be able to keep pace and more easily adapt to the careers of tomorrow. You could also discover an interest that transforms your life. Take the leap, earn the degree you’ve always wanted and open the door to exciting new opportunities. Valuable Earning a four-year college degree can pay off through a lifetime of higher earning potential. A diploma from the University of Washington connects you to a powerful alumni network and helps you stand out in the job market. Read About Careers Flexible Because all classes are online, you’ll be able to fit school into your busy schedule. Skip the commute and access all course materials from wherever you are, with part-time and full-time options. Discover Online Learning Affordable The ISS program provides excellent value for the money. You’ll find the per-credit costs to be significantly lower than many other degree completion programs, and non-residents pay the same low rate as Washington residents. See Costs & Aid Achievable This program is built for your success. You’ll have access to experienced academic advisers and reliable technical support throughout the program. It’s all designed to make a college degree a reality for you. Explore Academics "ISS helped me discover my dream career. I was lost in my education and didn't know what I wanted to do previously, but this program led me on a path of discovery and gave me motivation I thought was long gone." — Shannen Cartmel, ISS Graduate Read student stories Important Dates January 15, 2022 Spring Application Deadline February 1, 2022 Applications Open for Autumn 2022 Admission April 15, 2022 Autumn Priority Application Deadline July 15, 2022 Autumn Final Application Deadline how to apply Info Sessions June 6, 2022, 12:30–1:30 p.m. Online June 13, 2022, 9:30–10:30 a.m. Online June 27, 2022, 5:30–6:30 p.m. Online See all info sessions and recruitment events. Get Updates Thinking about applying ? Sign up to get email updates about upcoming application deadlines, information meetings and more. Sign Up Program News ISS Ranked No. 2 for Online Bachelor's Programs in Social Sciences Mom Has Homework Too? (ParentMap) Connect with us University of Washington Be boundless Privacy Terms Brought to you in partnership with UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA