Skip to main content UCF Financial Aid Navigation Apply for Aid Types of Aid ScholarshipsGrantsLoansWaiversFederal Work Study (FWS) Receive Aid Forms Resources For Prospective StudentsFor Parents & FamiliesFor Newly Admitted StudentsFor Current UCF StudentsFor DonorsTuition and Cost EstimatesFinancial Aid Help VideosFinancial Literacy GuideFAQsPoliciesContact Scholarships Skip to Section Florida Bright Futures Learn about the state-funded program and the awards based on high school academic achievement. Pegasus Scholarships Information about undergraduate scholarships awarded to students upon admission to UCF. Private Scholarships Information about how to notify the financial aid office of a private or outside award. How do I find a scholarship? There are countless public and private scholarships available to college students. Scholarships are awarded for a variety of reasons including academic achievement, financial need, campus and community involvement, and leadership experience, and generally do not need to be repaid. Use Access 2 Opportunities (A2O), UCF’s scholarship application system to search for scholarships. By completing a one-time application, you will be considered for more than 200 scholarships offered by the university and gain access to hundreds of external scholarships, too. Access 2 Opportunities (A20) Be considered for over 200 scholarships by completing a one-time application. Search for Scholarships UCF College and Departmental Scholarships Many colleges and departments offer scholarships to students that are specific to an area of specialization. Scholarship listings are available from the following colleges and departments. Alumni Association The Burnett Honors College College of Arts and Humanities College of Business College of Community Innovation and Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Graduate Studies College of Health Professions and Sciences College of Nursing College of Optics and Photonics | CREOL College of Sciences College of Undergraduate Studies Global Perspectives Graduate Fellowships and Assistantships Multicultural Academic and Support Services Rosen College of Hospitality Management Student Accessibility Services Study Abroad Transfer and Transition Services NOTE: Please check your Outlook email Clutter Folder often for information from UCF Financial Aid, Academic Works and A2O. Certain filters in Outlook can cause our messages to end up here. To adjust filters to the Clutter Folder, please watch this video. Florida Bright Futures The Florida Bright Futures Scholarship Program, funded by the state of Florida, provides scholarships based on high school academic achievement. The program has different award levels, each with its own eligibility criteria and award amounts. Learn More About Bright Futures Scholarship Tips Maximize Scholarship Opportunities Here are a few tips to maximize your scholarship opportunities: Apply early. The peak time to apply for scholarships is January through May for the upcoming school year. Remember the early bird gets the worm! Check for scholarships frequently. Check your department, college, and the UCF Scholarship Listing Page for updates to scholarships. Get Involved. While some scholarships do not require involvement, it does help showcase who you are as a person. Also, being involved helps identify your involvement within your community i.e. campus, local, church, sports. Complete Your FAFSA. Some scholarships do not require the FAFSA, however, it is recommended for consideration of scholarships that require completing the FAFSA. Write an Award-Winning Scholarship Essay Students many times do not apply for scholarships that involve writing essays. However, scholarships that require essays do not usually have many applicants which may increase your chances of earning a scholarship. Here are a few tips to write your award-winning essay: Tailor your essay for your intended audience. While writing your essay, it is important to stay focused on the topic and specifically address the essay question. Target your audience by using keywords. Identify the goals of the donor as well as identifying why you should be selected for the scholarship. Stand out. Make the committee interested in who you are by grabbing their attention. Give the committee something different, so brainstorming will be very important before you begin writing your essay. Grab the reader’s attention with your essay and make the reader want to learn more about you. Introduce yourself. Explain who you are, what your goals are, and how receiving the scholarship will help you accomplish your educational objectives. Scholarship committees often make decisions on awarding scholarships and want to know more about you, so using the essay is a good way to introduce yourself to the committee. Examples also include campus and community involvement, and hobbies. Avoid negative messages. When writing your essay, avoid negative messages such as tear-jerker. Many use this method in hopes of being selected for a scholarship. However, it may have the opposite impact and not accomplish the intended message. Write positive messages. In keeping with the theme of tailoring and targeting your audience, it is important to do so with positive messages. Positive messages are important when discussing negative situations. It gives great insight to you as a person, i.e., how you have overcome difficult situations. Proofread. Essays should be proofread several times over to ensure that there are no typing or grammatical errors. Utilize your resources such as the UCF Writing Center or having a financial aid advisor review your essay. Manage Your Scholarship Award Most students entering college encounter their first real-world situations with large amounts of money. We’ve compiled information on budgeting your money, as well as other financial literacy tips. Avoid Scholarship Scams Do not pay for scholarship searches. You have many options for free scholarship search engines as well as campus resources. Avoid Scholarship Guarantees. Be wary of scholarship organizations that guarantee you will receive a scholarship based upon a small application fee. No one can guarantee you will receive a scholarship by paying an application fee. Avoid Giving Personal Information. Do not provide personal information such as bank account numbers, and credit card numbers. Money-Back Guarantee. Avoid scholarships that promise your money is guaranteed to be refunded if you do not receive a scholarship. If you believe you have encountered a fraudulent scholarship, visit the Federal Trade Commission website for help. Write a Thank You Letter Letters of appreciation from scholars encourage our donors to continue funding deserving students like you. We ask that you prepare a brief letter describing how their contribution will help you reach your educational and personal goals. Here are some other suggestions for your thank you letter: Make sure your letter is legible. If your handwriting is hard to read, you should type the letter instead. Be sure to address the donor of the scholarship and not the scholarship committee. Letters should be proofread and you should have someone else proofread it as well. A store-bought card can be nice but be sure to write your own thoughts. You should let the donor(s) know something about yourself and the impact their generosity has had on your education and life. You should also indicate what your future goals may be. Feel free to come into the Office of Student Financial Assistance if you have trouble writing your thank you letter and a staff member will assist you. You can also visit the Writing Center for assistance. List of External Scholarship Resource Links External Scholarship Resource Links Affordable Colleges Online Resource for groups underrepresented on college campuses. Best Colleges for Parents and Latinos Resource for single mothers, fathers and latinos. Cappex Over $11 billion in scholarships. Chegg Over $1 billion in awards. Personalized matches available for all students. College Scholarships A financial aid search service using a large database of private scholarships. Results in a scholarship package built just for you, including scholarships that match your criteria and a personalized letter with your information to each of the scholarship sponsors. College Scholarships for Minority Students Extensive list of scholarships and financial aid resources available specifically for minority students. The guide also includes tips for finding and securing scholarships and other financial aid. College Whale At CollegeWhale.com students will find college financial aid video tutorials, student loan and FAFSA help guides, CollegeWhale.com’s famous “Easiest Scholarship Search Ever” (a “no registration required” college scholarship search with hundreds of thousands of dollars in available scholarship awards), and answers to most college financial aid questions. Computer Science Scholarships Comprehensive scholarship listing for Computer Science majors. Dow Jones NewsPaper Fund, Inc. You will find links to journalism-related scholarships, fellowships, internships and other career resources such as job fairs and job postings. FastWeb The FastWeb Scholarship Search Engine is updated daily, available free of charge, is completely private, and includes a database of over 1.3 million scholarships worth over $3 billion. Financial Aid for Military & Veterans Comprehensive listing of scholarships for Military Service members, their dependents and veterans. Inroads Searchable scholarship database with nearly 20,000 scholarships. HSFinder Available to both High School and College students of Latino descent. This up-to-date directory requires no registration and is accessible to all. Psychology Scholarships There many awards supporting students across psychology education. SallieMae Register to get free access to more than 5 million college scholarships that match your skills, activities and interests based on the profile you create. Scholarships for Education Majors and Grad Students Scholarships for Education Majors Scholarships.com Provides a free search of an entire database of scholarships, with nearly three thousand sources, potentially worth up to three billion dollars, and sits atop the short list of reputable scholarship and financial aid information websites. Scholarship Guidance The #1 High School and University Resource for Students. Unigo A time-saving list of scholarships that match your hobbies, interests and academic background. Unlimited access to our scholarship database of 3.6 million awards worth over $14 billion. 100 Military Education Grants and Scholarships Looking for military education grants and scholarships for yourself, your spouse, or your children to go back to school? Here is a massive list (over 100) scholarships and grants for military personnel and their families to go to school. Scholarship Appeals Initial scholarship eligibility may be appealed if a student has experienced relevant extenuating circumstances they feel caused them to not receive an award. Learn About Scholarship Appeals Home Types of Aid Scholarships Contact Us Email: [email protected] Phone: (844) 376-9160 Fax: (407) 823-5241 Office Hours Monday to Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Mailing Address Office of Student Financial Assistance P.O. Box 160113 Orlando, FL 32816-0113 Office Address Office of Student Financial Assistance 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Millican Hall, Room 107 Orlando, FL 32816-0113 UCF FAFSA School Code: 003954 UCF's Priority Date for FAFSA: December 1