Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected]own.edu Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Urban Studies Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Internships The following institutions have contacted our office in the past with information about internships. The list below is provided for information only; deadlines for this year's internship opportunities may have already passed. Providence Preservation Society Preservation Intern (Job Overview) Preservation Interns, by means of programs and outreach, support and communicate PPS’s public message regarding the importance of historic preservation in Providence. Interns contribute to the general operation of the organization; work collaboratively with other staff, volunteers, and board members on programs and events as needed; and seek to generally promote historic preservation and PPS. Specific responsibilities may include Educational Programming Work to implement diverse educational initiatives to help build an informed audience for the organization. Research and create content for educational/public programming. Most Endangered Properties Program (MEP) Solicit and research nominations; prepare supporting documentation; plan annual photography exhibit:; coordinate gallery exhibit logistics, marketing, and implementation; prepare press releases; design postcard (and additional print collateral) and coordinate mailing and distribution; plan and coordinate gallery reception and exhibit. Annual Historic Preservation Awards Coordinate with staff to assist in the design of the nomination form; coordinate mailing and solicitation of nominations from general public, membership, architects, developers, non-profits, and others. Public Inquiries/ Technical Assistance Field inquiries from the public on preservation issues and suggest appropriate resources, government offices, neighborhood associations, local non-profits, etc. Other: Annual Meeting “Year-In-Review”: prepare text and images on preservation projects and advocacy initiatives for PowerPoint presentation at the annual meeting. PPS Communications: prepare newsletter articles and photographs for all preservation-related issues and write updates about programs and preservation projects. Responsible for preservation/advocacy website content and updates. PPS Special Events: Craft and implement preservation message within special events. Work as needed with development staff in planning, and staffing special events. The successful applicant must have an interest in the field of historic preservation and architectural history, and preferably some educational background in history, architectural history, architecture, historic preservation, or a related field. Interpersonal, oral and written communication skills are necessary, as well as organizational skills and the ability to balance multiple ongoing tasks and special projects. How to apply: E-mail letter of interest, resume, and a brief writing sample to: Paul Wackrow Advocacy & Education Coordinator Providence Preservation Society [email protected] Contact: Paul Wackrow [email protected] HUD Student Interns Program The Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Interns Program is always interested in finding talented people who have the skills needed to meet our future employment needs. Through a variety of programs, the HUD Intern Program is designed to help recruit and attract exceptional individuals to a broad spectrum of occupations within HUD. The program offers interns professional experiences and formal training opportunities that are tailored to meet their educational and professional goals and interests. New Hampshire Institute of Politics Summer Internship Opportunity - New Hampshire Institute of Politics is once again partnering with Rutgers University and the Center for American Women in Politics (CAWP) to bring New Leadership™, the acclaimed leadership training program for undergraduate women, to New England. New Leadership™ is a five-day, residential summer program for college women designed to educate, engage and empower them in the political process. Students from all majors are welcome to apply. Watch for Spring deadline date. Ascendant Neighborhood Development Corporation Ascendant is a non-profit community development organization headquartered in East Harlem. It owns and manages approximately 700 apartments throughout East and Central Harlem. The organization is reinvesting in its existing portfolio and actively pursuing expansion opportunities. Ascendant welcomes student interns and class research projects on a range of issues, including neighborhood planning, sustainability/resiliency, organizational management, facilities management, preservation, landscape architecture, art, graphic design, and real estate finance. For more information on Ascendant, please visit the organization’s website at www.ascendant.nyc. Contact: Brown Urban Studies Alumnus Chris Cirillo ‘95, Executive Director at [email protected]. Khadarlis - Providence-based Non-profit - Looking for Student Volunteers! Khadarlis is a small all-volunteer Providence-based non-profit working to alleviate poverty and inequality both locally in Rhode Island and abroad in Sierra Leone and Guatemala. Their projects include running a computer resource lab for Rhode Islanders without computer access at home, collecting books and supplies for school children in rural Guatemala, and building wells and solar electric panels in villages in Sierra Leone. They are looking for student volunteers and university collaborators who can help them write grant proposals and run fund-raising initiatives. If you're interested, please call 401-454-6916 or email our executive director, Aisha Khadar Desince at [email protected] IMPACT Impact is a project of Environment America and U.S. PIRG, two leading advocacy organizations, that creates the action, energy, and power it takes to make an impact on important issues. Students can apply today at by clicking here! Fellowships Match Corps Competitive Fellowship in Urban Education Match Corps consists of tutoring and teaching at an inner-city school in either Boston or Lawrence, MA. According to a recent Brown graduate, Jonathan Smallwood, after the year fellows go on to top grad schools in medicine, law, and the social sciences, become full-time teachers in high-need schools, or go into education policy and administration. The application process is highly selective and the demands of the program are intense. Corps members who know they want to teach for at least two years in an urban charter school should opt into Match Teacher Residency. PIRG Learn the basics of organizing, and put these skills to work to cast a spotlight on social problems and help run our campaigns. Environment American Fellowship Environment America promotes bold ideas and organizes action to commit our country to 100% renewable energy, keep fossil fuels in the ground, ban bee-killing pesticides, end pollution of our water, and protect and expand our national parks and other public lands. We’re not afraid to think boldly, but we’re well aware that bold thinking is not enough. We work hard to produce the research, public education and citizen action it takes to win real results for our environment right now. Jobs NYC Urban Fellows Program The Urban Fellows Program is sponsored by The City of New York and is designed to introduce America's finest college students and graduates to local government and public service. Next City Jobs Over 6,000 jobs in urban planning, economic development, government and nonprofit organizations. Are you an urbanist considering your next career move? If so, look no further than Next City Jobs. We are proud to launch the first national job search engine that focuses on the diverse industries essential to building healthier, more innovative cities. Forget scouring multiple job sites for your dream job — Next City has put them all in one place! You will find jobs such as Transportation Analyst, Community Outreach Coordinator, Government Affairs Specialist, Director of Civic Engagement, Architect, City Planner, Executive Director, Economist and more. Our jobs are tailored to your career interests. If you don't see what you are looking for, just send us an email to [email protected]. Other Online Resources The following online databases are good places to look for organizations, government agencies, and companies that work on urban issues. Some include search functions specifically for internships, fellowships, and jobs. American Planning Association Jobs City Limits Jobs Government Job Search Idealist.org Job Board Planetizen / Jobs Streetsblog Jobs Board Urban Affairs Association Also in Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Urban Studies Events Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity