Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Accessibility at SJSU Accessibility at SJSU Accessibility at SJSU Menu About Us About Us Policies Policies Your Role Your Role Faculty Staff, Employees, Deans and Managers Students Vendors and Contractors Webmasters and Web Content Editors How We Can Help How We Can Help Accessibility Tips Accessibility Tips Instructional Materials Purchasing Web Accessibility Web Accessibility Fixing Accessibility Problems Principles Contact Us About Us Policies Your Role Faculty Staff, Employees, Deans and Managers Students Vendors and Contractors Webmasters and Web Content Editors How We Can Help Accessibility Tips Instructional Materials Purchasing Web Accessibility Principles Contact Us Digital Accessibility Digital accessibility means everyone has the right to access all the instructional materials and digital tools San Jose State has to offer. Without it, many students wouldn't be able to receive the education they deserve. That's why we've made sure all of our resources are usable by anyone. But we can't do it alone. We need your help in making SJSU a more supportive and accessible place to live, work and learn Accessibility Tips Are you curious about what you can do to help the campus become more accessible? We've compiled a list of tips to help you get started. Read our accessibility tips Your Role In Accessibility Not sure what digital accessibility means for you? Need more clarity on what you could be doing to make the campus more accessible? We can answer those questions and more. Learn more about your role in digital accessibility Accessible Education Center Need help? SJSU's Accessible Education Center (AEC) provides direct assistance to students who need help with accommodations. Visit the AEC Accessibility Reporting Form San José State University is committed to accessibility and inclusion for all students, faculty, staff, and community members. Please use this form to report any accessibility barriers related to campus facilities, buildings, and grounds; course materials and learning conditions; and web and IT applications and services. Report Incident Content Best Practices Guide If you work on an SJSU website, you should become familiar with this guide. It will help you to create accessible content that help your site visitors achieve their objectives. Accessibility at SJSU Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Feb 22, 2022