Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Public Safety Menu Police BUPD General Information BUPD Mission Enforcement Authority Employment Information Employment Guidelines FAQ's External Resources Accreditation Crime Victim Resource Information BUPD Sexual Violence Response Commitment Clery Act Information Campus Crime & Fire Log Annual Fire Safety and Security Report Offices to Report Crimes Clery Act Policies CSA Incident Report Clery Geography Programs and Services Crime Free Multi-Housing Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) Active Shooter Training Active Shooter Training: Introduction BU Campus Guardian Lost and Found Bicycle Registration Special Event Staffing Request Late Hour Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Safe Place Exchange Med-Return Drug Disposal Kiosk Public Information Act (Open Records) Contacting BUPD How to Report a Crime Anonymous Tips Form Comment About Baylor Police Filing a Complaint Emergency Management & Fire Safety Baylor Alert Emergency Guide Tornado Fire Safety Policies & Permits Weather Information Parking & Transportation Students Student Permits Order a Permit Refunds Free Ferrell Lot 1 8th Street Garage Lot 3 Allen Hall Surface Lot 21 5th Street Garage Lot 40 East Campus Garage Lot 45 Dutton Garage Lot 2 Panhellenic Lot 6 Armstrong Browning Lot 30 7th and James Church Lot 37 Speight Garage Permits Law School Permits Text Alerts Alternative Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Bicycle Motorcycles Mopeds Zipcar Faculty/Staff Visitors Visitor Parking Permit Regulations & Enforcement Enforcement Communication Citation List Towing Appeals Persons with Disabilities ID Cards Contact Information Garage Clearance Baylor Garage Counter Map Technical Security Call Boxes and Emergency Telephones Card Access System Camera Network Intrusion and Duress Alarm Systems Global Safety & Security Register Your Travel Global Safety and Security Policy Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Emergency Messages Victim of Crime Abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Health, Safety and Security Travel Health Travel Safety Travel Security Resources Links to Resources About Contact Us Office Goals Committees, Associations & Networks News Baylor>Department of Public Safety>Police>How to Report a Crime How to Report a Crime The University encourages everyone on campus to immediately report crimes and other emergencies to the University Police by calling (254) 710-2222. We have also established a number of other ways for campus community members and visitors to report crimes, serious incidents, and other emergencies to appropriate University officials. Regardless of how and where you decide to report these incidents, it is critical for the safety of the entire University community that you immediately report all incidents to the Baylor Police Department at (254) 710-2222 to ensure an effective investigation and appropriate follow-up actions.Your report could be the determining factor in establishing cause for the Baylor Police Department to issue a Timely Warning or Emergency Notification to ensure the safety of the entire Baylor Community. For the convenience of students, faculty and staff BUPD has initiated a telephone reporting system for minor property crimes. BUPD will still respond to any crimes against a person or property crimes when the value of the property taken is significant or regardless of the value if physical evidence is present. Another factor in initiating this new program were COVID-19 concerns. To file a report, you simply call our Communications Center, the dispatcher will assign an officer to call you to take your information for the report. Voluntary, Confidential Reporting If you are the victim of a crime or want to report a crime you are aware of, but do not want to pursue action within the University or criminal justice system, we ask that you consider filing a voluntary, confidential report. Depending upon the circumstances of the crime you are reporting, you may be able file a report while maintaining your confidentiality. The purpose of a confidential report is to comply with your wish to keep your personally identifying information confidential, while taking steps to ensure your safety and the safety of others. The confidential reports allow the University to compile accurate records on the number and types of incidents occurring on campus. Reports filed in this manner are counted and disclosed in the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. In limited circumstances, the Department may not be able to assure confidentiality and will inform you in those cases. In certain instances, a crime victim may be reluctant to file a report fearing the "process" and/or loss of his/her anonymity. In such circumstances, crime victims are still encouraged to make a confidential report to one of the designated campus authorities. At minimum, crime victims will receive important counseling and referral information. Confidential reports are important because they provide valuable information that can enhance the safety of the community-at-large and such reports will (at least) provide a more accurate portrait of actual campus crime. (Remember, help is available, all you need to do is ask.) To report a crime, contact the Baylor Police Department at (254) 710-2222, use the on-line Baylor University Anonymous Tip Report or use the Emergency Call Box telephones, located on the campus and in the parking garages. In addition, you may report a crime to the following areas: Associate Dean for Student Conduct Administration (254) 710-1715, Clifton Robinson Tower Suite 270 Associate Vice President for Student Life (254) 710-1314, McLane Student Life Center, Suite 114 Director, Campus Living and Learning (254) 710-3642, Penland Residence Hall, Room 1201 Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer (254) 710-2000, Clifton Robinson Tower, Suite 200 Director, Student Activities (254) 710-2371 Bill Daniel Student Center, Suite 100 Vice President and Director of Intercollegiate Athletics (254) 710-1222, Simpson Athletics and Academic Center Assistant Director of Greek Like (254) 710-7679 Bill Daniel Student Center, Student Activities Suite 100 Director of Campus Recreation (254) 710-4102 Student Life Center Campus Recreation Suite 124 Director of Study Abroad (254) 710-2657 Hankamer Academic Center Room 160 Dean, Diana R. Garland School of Social Work (254) 710- 6400 811 Washington Waco TX Dean for Louise Herrington School of Nursing (214) 820-2792 333 N. Washington, Dallas TX Associate Dean for Academic Affairs – Louise Herrington School of Nursing, (214) 725-1795 333 N. Washington, Dallas TX. Director, Austin EMBA Program (512) 255-3622 3107 Oak Creek Drive Suite 240 Austin, TX. Director, Dallas Executive MBA Program (972) 458-2327 333 N. Washington, Dallas, TX. Director, Baylor in New York Program (917) 617-8404 41-34 Crescent St, Long Island City, NY Associate Director, Houston School of Social Work (346) 701-8050 4100 S. Main St. Houston, TX. Director, George W. Truett Theological Seminary (254) 710-6064 555 Tallowood Rd, Houston, TX Anyone may call the Baylor Police Department at (254) 710-2222 to report concerning information. Callers may remain anonymous. It is important to have a culture where people feel safe reporting wrongful conduct. For more information or to file a complaint, you may also access Baylor’s Whistleblower Policy or the EthicsPoint Webpage. Reporting to University Police We encourage all members of the University community to report all crimes and other emergencies to the Baylor Police Department in a timely manner. University Police have a dispatch center that is available by phone at (254) 710-2222 or in person 24 hours/day at the Speight Plaza Parking Facility, 1st Floor, at South Fourth Street and Speight Avenue. Though there are many resources available, Baylor Police should be notified of any crime, whether or not an investigation continues, to assure the University can assess any and all security concerns and inform the community if there is a threat to the University community. Reporting to Other Campus Security Authorities The Clery Act recognizes certain University officials and offices as “Campus Security Authorities (CSA).” The Act defines these individuals as an “official of an institution who has significant responsibility for student and campus activities, including, but not limited to, student housing, student discipline and campus judicial proceedings”. An official is defined as “any person who has the authority and the duty to take action or respond to particular issues on behalf of the institution.” While the University prefers that community members promptly report all crimes and other emergencies directly to the Baylor Police Department at (254) 710-2222 or 911, we also recognize that some may prefer to report to other individuals or University offices. Pastoral and Professional Counselors Under the Clery Act, any employee who is a licensed medical, clinical, or mental-health professional (e.g., physicians, nurses, physician’s assistants, psychologists, psychiatrists, professional counselors, and social workers, and those performing services under their supervision), when acting in that professional role in the provision of services to a patient; and any employee providing administrative, operational, and/or related support for such health care providers in their performance of such services is not considered a Campus Security Authority. Nor is the University Chaplain when acting within a ministerial or pastoral role in the provision of services to a student, faculty, or staff member. As a matter of policy, the University encourages pastoral and professional counselors to inform the persons they are counseling on available procedures to report crimes on a voluntary, confidential basis for inclusion in the annual disclosure of crime statistics. Under Texas law, pastoral and professional counselors and other health care providers are required to report the type of the incident reported, but may not include any information that would not violate a student’s expectation of privacy. The Equity Office will provide a written explanation of the rights and options to each student and employee who reports an incident of sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking (whether the offense occurred on or off campus). For students and employees who choose to report their incidents to a Confidential Resource, the Confidential Resource will provide the written information about rights and options. Except for Confidential Resources, all University Employees are designated Responsible Employees and thereby mandatory reporters of potential violations of the Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct (SIM) Policy. Responsible Employees include all staff, faculty, instructors and teaching assistants. Responsible Employees must report immediately any information about suspected prohibited conduct or violations of the SIM Policy. Reports must include any known details such as identities of the parties and the date, time and location of the incident. All Baylor University employees will comply with the requirements of Texas Education Code Section 51.252. Police BUPD General Information BUPD Mission Enforcement Authority Employment Information Employment Guidelines FAQ's External Resources Accreditation Crime Victim Resource Information BUPD Sexual Violence Response Commitment Clery Act Information Campus Crime & Fire Log Annual Fire Safety and Security Report Offices to Report Crimes Clery Act Policies Missing Student Notification Emergency Notification/Timely Warning - Baylor Alerts Security of and Access to Baylor Facilities Sexual and Gender Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking Victim Confidentiality Title IX CSA Incident Report Clery Geography Programs and Services Crime Free Multi-Housing Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) Active Shooter Training Active Shooter Training: Introduction BU Campus Guardian Lost and Found Bicycle Registration Special Event Staffing Request Late Hour Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Safe Place Exchange Med-Return Drug Disposal Kiosk Public Information Act (Open Records) Contacting BUPD How to Report a Crime Anonymous Tips Form Comment About Baylor Police Filing a Complaint Department of Public Safety Speight Plaza Parking Facility 1521 S. 4th St. Waco, TX 76706 Parking Matters: 254.710.7275 Non-Emergency: 254.710.2211 Emergency: 254.710.2222 Police Emergency Management & Fire Safety Parking & Transportation Technical Security Global Safety & Security General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Police BUPD General Information BUPD Mission Enforcement Authority Employment Information Employment Guidelines FAQ's External Resources Accreditation Crime Victim Resource Information BUPD Sexual Violence Response Commitment Clery Act Information Campus Crime & Fire Log Annual Fire Safety and Security Report Offices to Report Crimes Clery Act Policies CSA Incident Report Clery Geography Programs and Services Crime Free Multi-Housing Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) Active Shooter Training Active Shooter Training: Introduction BU Campus Guardian Lost and Found Bicycle Registration Special Event Staffing Request Late Hour Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Safe Place Exchange Med-Return Drug Disposal Kiosk Public Information Act (Open Records) Contacting BUPD How to Report a Crime Anonymous Tips Form Comment About Baylor Police Filing a Complaint Emergency Management & Fire Safety Baylor Alert Emergency Guide Tornado Fire Safety Policies & Permits Weather Information Parking & Transportation Students Student Permits Order a Permit Refunds Free Ferrell Lot 1 8th Street Garage Lot 3 Allen Hall Surface Lot 21 5th Street Garage Lot 40 East Campus Garage Lot 45 Dutton Garage Lot 2 Panhellenic Lot 6 Armstrong Browning Lot 30 7th and James Church Lot 37 Speight Garage Permits Law School Permits Text Alerts Alternative Transportation Baylor University Shuttle Service Bicycle Motorcycles Mopeds Zipcar Faculty/Staff Visitors Visitor Parking Permit Regulations & Enforcement Enforcement Communication Citation List Towing Appeals Persons with Disabilities ID Cards Contact Information Garage Clearance Baylor Garage Counter Map Technical Security Call Boxes and Emergency Telephones Card Access System Camera Network Intrusion and Duress Alarm Systems Global Safety & Security Register Your Travel Global Safety and Security Policy Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Emergency Messages Victim of Crime Abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Health, Safety and Security Travel Health Travel Safety Travel Security Resources Links to Resources About Contact Us Office Goals Committees, Associations & Networks News