Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Honors Experiences » UHP Discover » Students: Learn More Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Students: Learn More Check the "2022 UHP Discover Projects" Tab to Apply UHP Discover is open to all students who are members of the UHP during the Summer 2022 semester (May 9 - August 6, 2022). This is a paid* research opportunity that will also qualify as two pre-approved honors experiences. Overview and Eligibility right arrow down arrow We value interactions across disciplines - UHP students from any discipline are encouraged to apply and students may apply for research projects outside of their own department or college! This is a full-time (30–40 hours per week) paid research commitment. Please see the "Student Funding" section below for details on payment. Students cannot be enrolled in full-time classes if they are participating in UHP Discover. If a student is enrolling in a summer class(es), the student should not be enrolled in more than 6 credit hours. In addition, any class that the student is enrolled in cannot conflict with the UHP Discover research requirements. First and second year students are especially encouraged to apply, but the program is open to UHP students of all years (provided that you are still in the UHP in Summer 2022; students graduating in Spring 2022 are not eligible). Students will be required to participate in weekly professional development sessions during the summer. Students will be required to present their research results at the conclusion of the summer session. Upon completion of all requirements, students will earn two honors experiences. For Summer 2022, research opportunities may be either fully virtual, in- person, or in hybrid formats depending on University policies and the needs of the faculty mentor. Application and Matching Process right arrow down arrow Student information sessions will be held on Wednesday, February 2 at 3:30 pm and Thursday, February 3 at 5:30 pm via Zoom. A link to both meetings will be sent out through the UHP Newsletter. Summer 2022 project descriptions will be added to this webpage in early-to-mid February. Please review the project descriptions once available. Complete the online UHP Discover application beginning mid-February. Upon completion, your application(s) will be forwarded to the potential faculty mentor(s), who will then contact selected students for any additional information and to schedule interviews. Please note that you are not guaranteed an interview. It is a competitive matching / selection process. Students can apply to more than one research project (by filling out multiple applications) but they can only work on a single project during the program. Matches should NOT be offered prior February 21. Students have 24 hours to accept/decline a match. Both students and faculty must confirm the match via email by March 11 (to Marcell Crawford, marcell.crawford@uc.edu) Student Funding right arrow down arrow If successfully matched with a faculty mentor, students will be paid* for their full-time research. Pay will be $10 per hour, up to 40 hours per week , up to $4000 in total for the summer (note: no overtime is available). The actual amount earned will be based on the actual number of hours that the student works and could be less than $4000 in total. This amount is not guaranteed. Funding is unable to be provided for students who work more than their contracted hours. Students must develop their work schedule in agreement with their faculty mentor, including duration (number of weeks) and intensity (hours per week) prior to beginning research. This schedule will be outlined in a signed contract provided to the UHP. You cannot work more than 40 hours per week in UHP Discover. In addition, if you will be employed in another student position at UC in Summer 2022, you cannot work more than 40 hours per week in total between the positions. * To be paid, students must be eligible to be employed in the United States. For more questions, please contact Marcell Crawford at marcell.crawford@uc.edu. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top