Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityOpus College of Engineering Opus College of Engineering Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Academic Advising Center Program Accreditation Students Prospective Students See yourself here: Great reasons to choose Marquette Engineering Virtual appointments Undergraduate majors Scholarship and financial aid Engineering Scholars Program Transfer students Pre-college outreach programs Viewbook (English) Viewbook (en español) Current Students Co-ops and internships Design Day Discovery Learning Laboratories E-Lead Peer tutoring Study abroad Student organizations Engineering Technology Services / laptop requirements Undergraduate research Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Experts for Media Engineering Technology Services for Faculty & Staff Research College Research Themes Centers & Labs Equipment Grant Development Office (Faculty) Research News Undergraduate Research Industry About Co-ops & Internships Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Resources Report Employment Co-Op Work Term Student Evaluations Employers Frequently Asked Questions Employer Resources Collaborate with Us Co-Op Work Term Employer Evaluations About Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Engineer Magazine Alumni Contact Us Give Give to the Opus College Opus Legacy At the corner of discovery and innovation Engineering Research Even the building has a lot to teach you Explore Engineering Hall See yourself here Become a Marquette Engineer Opus College News and Events Making news Dr. Brooke Mayer spoke to @WPR about her work around phosphorus sustainability. Dr. Kristina Ropella, Opus Dean, discussed engineering graduate degrees in U.S. News & World Report and her vision as Marquette's first female dean of engineering with CBS 58 for Women's History Month. Congratulations Dr. Brooke Mayer for being recognized by BizTimes Media as one of the 2022 Notable Women in Engineering! Dr. Maggie McNamara discussed street design with Fox6 as part of an effort to redesign streets to mitigate reckless driving. A $7 million gift from the Fotsch Family Foundation will establish a new endowed leadership center to house the E-Lead program. Learn more! Reimagine graduate education Flexible and affordable graduate certificate programs make it easy for practicing engineers to take their career to the next level. Programs include environmental engineering, systems engineering, renewable energy technology, and machine learning. Learn more and apply today. Celebrating Students Best wishes to the Opus College of Engineering Class of 2022! See the congratulatory message from Dean Kristina Ropella. We are proud to share that engineering graduates Maxwell Dixon and Brigid Hughes were selected as the undergradate student Commencement speaker and student sepaker at the Baccalaureate Mass. thedifference Congratulations to students who showcased their work during Design Day and thank you to the partners who advised students! Check out the program and projects. The Opus College proudly celebrated the academic success of students and faculty at our Honors Convocation Friday, April 29. Civil Engineering students finished first in the Global Water Stewardship category of the Central States Water Environment Association’s student design competition. Leading research Drs. Adam Dempsey and Casey Allen were awarded $2.5 million from the U.S. Department of Energy for research to show heavy-duty engines that use flex-fuel rather than diesel. Read about their work here. Dr. Somesh Roy received a $550,000 National Science Foundation CAREER program grant for his work to model soot emissions with the goal of developing cleaner combustion systems. Drs. Brooke Mayer and Anthony Parolari are leading research as part of a $3.8 million U.S. Department of Defense grant for the "In Defense of Water" program. Learn more. Dr. Brandon Tefft received $1.9 million from the National Institutes of Health for the project, "Transcriptomics of adherent endothelial cells for improved endothelialization of small-diameter vascular grafts". Learn more here. Dr. Ayman EL-Refaie received $5 million from Department of Energy for research to develop the next generation of electric-drive drivetrains. Welcome At the Opus College of Engineering, we are world-class engineers who lead bold, innovative change to serve the world in the Jesuit tradition. Quick links Apply Today: Undergraduate Apply Today: Graduate Academic Advising Center Engineering Technology Services Open Faculty Positions Program Accreditation Prospective Students Tutoring Schedule Viewbook (English) Viewbook (en español) Departments Biomedical Engineering Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Follow us on social media PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact coeweb@marquette.edu. Marquette Engineer 2021 Opus College of Engineering Magazine Excellence in Leadership E-Lead doubles capacity to welcome students from across disciplines. Industry Relations Marquette Engineers get hands-on industry experience through co-ops, internships, research and more. Location Marquette University Olin Engineering, Room 201 Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-7080 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©