Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > In the News > 2022 > Both rich and poor countries saw essential health services decline during COVID News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Both rich and poor countries saw essential health services decline during COVID March 24, 2022 – Many essential health services—including cancer and tuberculosis screenings, HIV testing, maternal health services, and child vaccinations—declined during the COVID-19 pandemic in poor and rich countries alike around the globe, according to a new study co-authored by researchers at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. The study, published March 14, 2022 in Nature Medicine, looked at the effect of the pandemic on 31 health services in two low-income countries (Ethiopia and Haiti), six middle-income countries (Ghana, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mexico, Nepal, South Africa and Thailand), and two high-income countries (Chile and South Korea). The researchers found disruptions in health services of varying magnitude and duration in every country, with no clear patterns by country income group of pandemic intensity. Findings included: Cancer screenings, tuberculosis screening and detection, and HIV testing were most affected, declining by 26%–96%. Outpatient visits declined by 9%–40% at national levels and remained lower than predicted by the end of 2020. Maternal health services were disrupted in roughly half of the countries, with declines ranging from 5% to 33%. Routine childhood vaccinations were disrupted at least six of the countries studied, and while several countries were able to resume vaccinations, catch-up campaigns may not have reached all the children missed. Some of the declines in health services may have been due to decreased needs during lockdowns, because there were fewer infectious illnesses or injuries, or because people feared becoming infected with COVID-19 if they visited health facilities, according to the authors. But they added that a larger share of the declines is likely due to a failure of health system resilience. The authors wrote, “Given the likelihood of future pandemics and other major shocks, there is an urgent need to design more resilient health systems capable of addressing a crisis while maintaining essential functions.” Harvard Chan School co-authors of the study included several researchers from the Department of Global Health and Population: lead author Catherine Arsenault, research scientist; senior author Margaret Kruk, professor of health systems; as well as PhD student Anna Gage, visiting scientist Neena Kapoor, and Sebastian Bauhoff, assistant professor of global health and economics. Read the Nature Medicine study: COVID-19 and resilience of healthcare systems in ten countries Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles cancer child health COVID-19 health systems HIV tuberculosis vaccines Probing disease disparities The complicated work of pinpointing the causes of disease A push for safer building materials More on this topic Student’s journey to U.S. to save daughter sparks a career in public health Examining causes of newborn sepsis in low- and middle-income countries Opinion: How climate action can improve children’s health More on this topic Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree The latest on the coronavirus More on this topic Student’s journey to U.S. to save daughter sparks a career in public health Using patient safety as tool to improve health inequalities Getting to know … Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH ’22 More on this topic The complicated work of pinpointing the causes of disease Tracking emotional and behavioral issues in youth born to women with HIV Getting to know … Austin Marshall, MPH ’21 More on this topic A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment ‘The infectious disease that nobody ever thinks about’ Eric Rubin, Renee Salas elected to National Academy of Medicine More on this topic ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree Perspective: Tobacco messaging holds lessons for COVID-19 vaccine campaigns Masking on planes is ‘good public health sense,’ says expert More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College