Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives About the Magazine Founded in 1994 by Tom Messina ’84 and Mike Hinn ’92, Pegasus magazine is the official publication of the University of Central Florida. It is published three times a year by UCF Marketing in partnership with the UCF Foundation and the UCF Office of Alumni Engagement and Annual Giving. We welcome your story ideas, feedback and class notes. Contact the Editorial Staff Email: [email protected] Phone: 407.823.2621 Fax: 407.823.2567 Mail: UCF Marketing P.O. Box 160090 Orlando, FL 32816-0090 Update Your Address Moved recently? Changed your email address? Update your information at ucfalumni.com/contactupdates. Submit Class Notes Send us your announcements and high-resolution photos (minimum 3 megapixels, 300 dpi). Submissions are included as space permits. Class notes may be edited for length and clarity, and may be published in any medium. Web: ucfalumni.com/classnotes Email: [email protected] Mail: Pegasus Class Notes P.O. Box 160046 Orlando, FL 32816-0046 Phone: 407.823.2586 Associate Vice President for Communications & Marketing Patrick Burt ’08MA Managing Editor Nicole Dudenhoefer ’17 Staff Writer Bree (Adamson) Watson ’04 Copy Editor Peg Martin Production Manager Sandy Pouliot Executive Creative Director Sean Hartman Assistant Creative Director Lauren Waters ’06 Art Director Steven Webb Designers Janeza Dino Kaitlyn Osorio ’19 Multimedia Alexandra Bayer Thomas Bell ’08 Kadeem Stewart ’17 Social Carly Hollowell ’14 ’20MA Kenneth Kung ’19 Rhiana Raymundo ’19 Web Jim Barnes RJ Bruneel ’97 Jo Dickson ’11 Kim Hannush ’11 Cadie Stockman Roger Wolf ’07MFA © 2022 UCF all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. Pegasus is a registered trademark of the UCF Alumni. Opinions expressed in Pegasus are not necessarily those shared by the University of Central Florida. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816