Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Why Give? One of the first steps to take in your giving is figuring out what your motivation is. Here are six common motivators for donors like you: LEGACY You seek to influence the future, to make the world a better place. EXPERIENCE You wish to relay opportunities for others that you had or wish you had, such as scholarship support, traveling abroad or enjoying certain programs. ANALYSIS You’d rather look objectively at what the biggest needs are, or what issues can be successfully addressed with philanthropic resources. FAMILY You want to honor and appreciate those closest to you. FAITH You’d like to support organizations and causes related to your beliefs. HERITAGE You want to assist others with a similar background to yours. What does Philanthropy Look Like? Beyond making a gift, philanthropy can take on many forms. Here are some questions to ask yourself as you consider what works best for you: How active do you want to be, and how much time do you want to devote to philanthropy? How public do you want to be? Some people are committed to anonymity. Others directly seek philanthropic partners and advocate for their causes as part of an overall strategy. To learn more about donor confidentiality, click here. Are there other nonfinancial resources you want to bring to philanthropy, beyond your personal capacity? Do you have access to relevant expertise, to products and services? Do you seek to leverage your funds by collaborating with others? You can either create a fund of your own or contribute to a general fund with multiple donors. It all depends on the kind of impact you wish to make. Do you want your family to be involved? For many donors, undertaking a philanthropy program with their family is an important way to share significant experience, learn together, develop a legacy and transmit values. What Are My Options? There are funds and opportunities in every college and unit at Iowa State University for you to take part in. Once you’ve figured out what motivates you, think about challenges and communities that align with your drive. Do you want to help solve global problems? Equip the next generation of problem-solvers? Contribute to the social good? There is an area of opportunity for you at Iowa State. When you make a gift online, you will be able to select from a wide variety of funds to support at the university. There are also many different ways to make a gift, depending on if you want to make an immediate impact or spread out your giving over time. To learn more, visit our Types of Gifts page. Where Do I Go From Here? For more information or to visit with someone about making a gift, see our staff directory. We are committed to helping you reach your philanthropic goals while also benefitting Iowa State University. Adapted from “Your Philanthropy Roadmap” by Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top