Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Clemson Online Clemson Online Calendar of Events Summer & Fall 2022 Events Clemson Online Bookings Book an Appointment with Clemson Online Staff There’s a new way to schedule consultations with Clemson Online experts: Microsoft Bookings is here! All you need to do is visit the Clemson Online Bookings Page and choose your type of question/consult, then choose your day and time. The scheduler does the rest, no more email tags. Schedule a Booking here. Quick Hits Kaltura Basics I May 16th, 2022, 1:00 - 1:30pm An overview of Kaltura. Topics include: accessing Kaltura through Canvas and MediaSpace, My Media vs. Course Videos, adding an existing video to Kaltura, adding a collaborator (sharing a video), and embedding a video in Canvas. There are additional days and times for this same training. Be sure to register for Basics II, Advanced I, and Advanced II to learn even more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Basics II May 16th, 2022, 2:00 - 2:30pm A demonstration on creating videos using Kaltura. Topics include: Kaltura recorder, basic video editing, accessing created videos, and adding generated captioning. There are additional days and times for this same training. Be sure to register for Basics I, Advanced I & Advanced II to learn more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Basics I May 18th, 2022, 9:30 - 10:00am An overview of Kaltura. Topics include: accessing Kaltura through Canvas and MediaSpace, My Media vs. Course Videos, adding an existing video to Kaltura, adding a collaborator (sharing a video), and embedding a video in Canvas. There are additional days and times for this same training. Be sure to register for Basics II, Advanced I, and Advanced II to learn even more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Basics II May 18th, 2022, 10:30 - 11:00am A demonstration on creating videos using Kaltura. Topics include: Kaltura recorder, basic video editing, accessing created videos, and adding generated captioning. There are additional days and times for this same training. Be sure to register for Basics I, Advanced I & Advanced II to learn more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Camtasia '22 and You May 19th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Join us as we demonstrate the 2022 updates to Camtasia. Participants will receive live training on some of the features and uses of Camtasia so that they can use these as they record videos for their courses. Facilitated by Clemson Online's Digital Learning Designer, Chase Sanders. Register in Tiger Training. Quick Hits Kaltura Basics I May 20th, 2022, 9:30 - 10:00am An overview of Kaltura. Topics include: accessing Kaltura through Canvas and MediaSpace, My Media vs. Course Videos, adding an existing video to Kaltura, adding a collaborator (sharing a video), and embedding a video in Canvas. There are additional days and times for this same training. Be sure to register for Basics II, Advanced I, and Advanced II to learn even more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Basics II May 20th, 2022, 10:30 - 11:00am A demonstration on creating videos using Kaltura. Topics include: Kaltura recorder, basic video editing, accessing created videos, and adding generated captioning. There are additional days and times for this same training. Be sure to register for Basics I, Advanced I & Advanced II to learn more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Advanced I May 23rd, 2022, 1:00 - 1:30pm Learn how to create interactive quizzes in Kaltura, add a video quiz as an assignment in Canvas, access quiz results, and use the Kaltura Dropbox to allow student video submissions. There are additional days and times for these same training sessions. Be sure to register for Basics I, Basics II, and Advanced II to learn more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Advanced II May 23rd, 2022, 2:00 - 2:30pm Quality pedagogy with Kaltura. Learn how to implement best practices when using Kaltura and use Kaltura to enhance your class. There are additional days and times for this same training. Facilitated by James Butler, Digital Learning Strategist. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Advanced I May 25th, 2022, 9:30 - 10:00am Learn how to create interactive quizzes in Kaltura, add a video quiz as an assignment in Canvas, access quiz results, and use the Kaltura Dropbox to allow student video submissions. There are additional days and times for these same training sessions. Be sure to register for Basics I, Basics II, and Advanced II to learn more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Advanced II May 25th, 2022, 10:30 - 11:00am Quality pedagogy with Kaltura. Learn how to implement best practices when using Kaltura and use Kaltura to enhance your class. There are additional days and times for this same training. Facilitated by James Butler, Digital Learning Strategist. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Advanced I May 27th, 2022, 9:30 - 10:00am Learn how to create interactive quizzes in Kaltura, add a video quiz as an assignment in Canvas, access quiz results, and use the Kaltura Dropbox to allow student video submissions. There are additional days and times for these same training sessions. Be sure to register for Basics I, Basics II, and Advanced II to learn more about Kaltura! Facilitated by David Bassett, Learning Technology Administrator. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler or David Bassett with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Kaltura Advanced II May 27th, 2022, 10:30 - 11:00am Quality pedagogy with Kaltura. Learn how to implement best practices when using Kaltura and use Kaltura to enhance your class. There are additional days and times for this same training. Facilitated by James Butler, Digital Learning Strategist. Register in Tiger Training. Contact James Butler with any questions about this session. Quick Hits Zoom Features June 2nd, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Zoom has proven to be a great tool for remote learning. Many of Zoom’s features however go unnoticed by many. Zoom meetings have polling capabilities, breakout rooms, chatting, etc. Join us for Quick Hits: Zoom Features as we discuss Zoom features that you may want to incorporate into your online instruction. We will demonstrate these features, and how to implement them in your Zoom settings. Facilitated by Clemson Online's Learning Technology Specialist, Axel Ruiz. Register in Tiger Training. Quick Hits Getting Started with Accessibility June 16th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm This Quick Hit is for faculty who are interested in beginning to make accessibility improvements to their courses. In 20 minutes, you will learn what accessibility means and how to start designing accessible content with the help of accessibility checkers. We will also briefly cover Canvas' accessibility features, extending time on exams, and support options available at Clemson. Facilitated by Michelle Tuten, Accessibility Coordinator with Clemson Online, who brings eight years of digital accessibility experience. Pronouns: she/her/hers. Register in Tiger Training. Workshop Wednesday Avoiding Burnout Using Course Design June 22nd, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm This Workshop Wednesday focuses on specific and actionable course design strategies that can help faculty avoid becoming overwhelmed and thus leading to burnout. Instead of focusing solely on personal strategies for dealing with chronic stress, this workshop delves into specific teaching strategies and course design steps faculty can use to make their teaching work for them and their students. This workshop is for anyone teaching who is either using online learning tools such as Canvas, to supplement their course, to those teaching classes that are solely online. Facilitated by James Butler, Digital Learning Strategist, and delivered by Clemson Online. Register in Tiger Training. Quick Hits Getting Started with iClicker Basics June 30th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Whether you want to make your lectures dynamic by using real-time knowledge check quizzes or you want an easy way to poll your class about a topic, iClicker Cloud can help you. This iClicker basics Quick Hit is designed for those who are fairly new to navigating iClicker Cloud. Now is the perfect time to learn as we prepare our classes for Fall 2022. Join us for a brief overview of iClicker Cloud as we guide you through initial setup steps and demonstrate the functions of iClicker Cloud. Facilitated by Clemson Online's Learning Technology Specialist, Axel Ruiz. Register in Tiger Training. Quick Hits Grouping Canvas Assignments July 14th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Grouping assignments can be a great way to add weight to the grades in your courses and adding accommodations to your tests can make them more versatile. Join Clemson Online for a quick look at these topics. In this course, we will explain the purpose of both grouping assignments and online testing accommodation and demonstrate how to use them in your course. All of this is in just a 20-minute Quick Hits session! Facilitated by Clemson Online's Learning Technology Specialists, Axel Ruiz and Gray Jackson. Register in Tiger Training. Workshop Wednesday Easy HTML for Canvas Design Obstacles July 20th, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm A meaningfully organized and formatted course is foundational to successful online teaching. Canvas Pages offer some means to help with formatting your course content, but some design obstacles can persistently remain in the way of formatting the way that you wish. In this Workshop Wednesday, you will learn easy HTML codes, how to insert them, and what they do to help you overcome five design obstacles. This workshop is for anyone using Canvas to teach content of any kind and who is comfortable with basic Canvas Page editing. Facilitated by Clemson Online's Instructional Designer, Laura Scott. Register in Tiger Training. Quick Hits Canvas Quizzes and Academic Integrity July 28th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Are you interested in learning about how to secure your online tests and quizzes? Join Clemson Online for a quick look at these topics to help you ensure your classes’ academic integrity. In this course, we will explain the purpose of securing your online assessments and demonstrate how to use them in your course. All of this is in just a 20-minute Quick Hits session! Facilitated by Clemson Online's Learning Technology Specialists, Axel Ruiz and Gray Jackson. Register in Tiger Training. Quick Hits Intro to Kaltura September 1st, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday Kaltura Best Practices September 7th, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Quick Hits Ins and Outs of Speedgrader Tools September 15th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday Make the Most of Canvas September 21st, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Quick Hits Quiz Building September 29th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday QM and You October 5th, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Quick Hits Academic Integrity: Exams October 13th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday Consultations: What does a DLS do for you? October 19th, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Quick Hits Kaltura: Intermediate October 27th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday Cognitive Load November 2nd, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Quick Hits Expanded Kaltura: Using Kaltura outside of Canvas November 10th, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday Take Your For-credit to a Non-credit November 16th, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Quick Hits How to Manage Gradebooks: Finalizing Grades December 1st, 2022, 3:30 - 4:00pm Description coming soon! Workshop Wednesday Next Semester Prep December 7th, 2022, 1:30 - 2:15pm Description coming soon! Clemson Online has a Faculty Resource Center in Canvas. Enroll Today! Want to check out our video library? Visit our Ensemble account Interested in Zoom Training? Check out these live training webinars Interested in using Lockdown Browser or Monitor for testing in Canvas? Check out these Instructor Trainings Missed a Quick Hits Session? Watch the Quick Hits Playlist Missed the Learning Tech Conference? Watch the recordings linked on the Conference page. Questions about Library eReserves? Get more information here: https://libraries.clemson.edu/find/course-reserves/ Home Programs Tools Students Faculty Contact Events Follow Clemson Online Clemson Online's Wordpress Clemson Online's Facebook Clemson Online's Twitter Clemson Online's Instagram Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram