Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Hankamer School of Business MBA Menu Business Home About COVID-19 Updates Faculty Staff News Compare Programs Events Baylor Business Alumni Network Full-Time MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Awards Student Profile Admitted Students Contact Admissions International Applicants Programs and Course Information MBA - General Degree Plan Concentrations Joint Degrees Program Experiences Student Support Career Management Ask a Student Community Commitment Baylor MBA Blog MBA Video Library Student Involvement Events Visit Us Scheduling Calendar Directions and Parking EMBA Dallas Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Events Visit Us Location EMBA Austin Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Online MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Admitted Students Military Programs and Course Information Business Foundations General MBA Cybersecurity Executive Communication Global Trade and Supply Chain Management Marketing Student Support Events Visit Us Graduate Certificates Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid MBA News Request Info Apply Full-Time MBA Build your career with a Baylor MBA At Baylor earning your MBA degree is not our end goal. It's just the beginning. With a foundation of rigorous coursework, a dynamic classroom setting and engaged faculty to challenge and support you along the way, our ultimate aim is to help you build your business acumen so you can take your career to the next level. Request Information First Name Last Name Email Mobile Phone Submit By submitting this form, I am providing my digital signature agreeing that Baylor University (Baylor) may email me or contact me regarding educational services by telephone and/or text message including utilizing automated technology or a pre-recorded message at the telephone number(s) provided above. I understand this consent is not a condition to attend Baylor or to purchase any other goods or services. Explore Program at a Glance All MBA students begin with foundational business courses in late July on Baylor's main campus in Waco, so when the fall term begins, you and your new cohort are ready to embark upon the challenging core curriculum. Elective courses enable you to gain a deeper understanding of specific business functions to support your career aspirations. You can take a variety of electives for a broad overview of business or you can pursue a concentration that certifies proficiency in a specific area. Either way, you'll leave prepared to maximize your leadership potential in an ever-changing marketplace. Programs and Course Information Class Profile Find your place in our collaborative, diverse classroom environment where women represent 40% and minorities represent 20% of our MBA community. Our average entering class size is 50 students—an ideal size for individualized support and student-led discussions. Commitment Earn your MBA in 17 months (which includes a 3-month internship) or your MBA in Healthcare Administration in 22 months (which includes a 9-month executive residency)—a small investment of time to gain lifelong career benefits. Concentrations Customize your degree to fit your career goals. Choose from four degree plans to tailor your studies: Healthcare Administration, Business Analytics, Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation and Cybersecurity. Career Your career development is our priority. Upon admission, all MBA students gain immediate access to Baylor’s Career Center. We’re proud to report that 91% of our MBA candidates land a career-building job within 90 days of graduation. Cost Scholarship availability (most of our MBA students receive between 25 to 100% tuition remission) mean maximum ROI, especially for early career candidates whose average starting salary is $78,000+ after earning an MBA. Criteria We place value on GPA and GMAT/GRE scores, work experience, leadership experience in student activities for early career candidates, and a strong recommendation from a supervisor. By the Numbers #10 MBA Entrepreneurship, U.S. News, 2022 rankings #17 MBA Healthcare Administration, U.S. News, 2022 rankings #59 Bloomberg Businessweek Best B-Schools, 2021-2022, U.S. Rankings #64 Best Graduate Business Programs, U.S. News, 2023 rankings #70 Among MBA Programs, Poets & Quants, 2021-2022 News Read More News May 17, 2022 Healthcare MBA Gives Future Medical Students a Competitive Edge Baylor's Healthcare MBA offers a Pre-Clinical Track degree plan that shortens the road to impact in a clinical setting. Read More Apr. 26, 2022 How I learned to Speak Up and Contribute as Part of Baylor’s Full-Time MBA Program Brittany Wetmore, a recent MBA/MSW alumna, shares a little bit about how she has grown to embrace the challenge of speaking up and how she has found her voice in the program through the support of classmates and professors. Read More Apr. 5, 2022 Baylor Team Wins Annual Big 12 MBA Case Competition Baylor's Full-Time MBA case competition team recently took first place at the 2022 Big 12 MBA Case Competition hosted by Iowa State University. Read More Mar. 24, 2022 Healthcare MBA Opens Doors in Dallas and Beyond In this Q&A, Baylor lecturer Glenn Robinson explains why now is the perfect time to pursue an EMBA with a concentration in Healthcare Administration Read More Master of Business Administration Hankamer School of Business Baylor MBA programs combine rigorous, customized classroom learning and real-world experience in equipping today's business professionals to lead with excellence, integrity, and ingenuity in the global marketplace. Request Information First Name Last Name Email Mobile Phone Select one or more MBA programs: Full-Time MBA Online MBA Executive MBA - Dallas Submit By submitting this form, I am providing my digital signature agreeing that Baylor University (Baylor) may email me or contact me regarding educational services by telephone and/or text message including utilizing automated technology or a pre-recorded message at the telephone number(s) provided above. I understand this consent is not a condition to attend Baylor or to purchase any other goods or services. Full-Time MBAOnline MBAExecutive MBA - DallasApply Now General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 full-time full-time Business Home About COVID-19 Updates Faculty Staff News Compare Programs Events Baylor Business Alumni Network Full-Time MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Awards Student Profile Admitted Students Contact Admissions International Applicants Programs and Course Information MBA - General Degree Plan Concentrations Joint Degrees Program Experiences Student Support Career Management Ask a Student Community Commitment Baylor MBA Blog MBA Video Library Student Involvement Events Visit Us Scheduling Calendar Directions and Parking EMBA Dallas Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Events Visit Us Location EMBA Austin Programs and Course Information Concentrations Cornerstone Commitment Program Experiences and Trips Student Support Career Management Alumni and Student Stories Veterans Online MBA Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid Student Profile Admitted Students Military Programs and Course Information Business Foundations General MBA Cybersecurity Executive Communication Global Trade and Supply Chain Management Marketing Student Support Events Visit Us Graduate Certificates Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid MBA News Request Info Apply