Skip to main content Restrict my search to Undergraduate Student Success Center Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Student Success Center UH Home Undergraduate Student Success Center LAUNCH LAUNCH Tutor Weekly Schedule Success Workshops Academic Coaching Other Services People Contact Us Want to be a Tutor? For Faculty Chem Gym Summer 2022 CHEM 1311 LAUNCH Welcome to the LAUNCH website! LAUNCH is the UH Learning Center. To view our services click the tabs on the left, including the Tutor Weekly Schedule. *Please note that all weekday hours before 3 p.m. are for in-person services in N109 Cougar Village 1. LAUNCH HOURS FOR SUMMER 2022 In-Person Hours: N109 Cougar Village 1 Online Hours: MS Teams code: 8ybk84w Mondays 10 am-3 pm 3-5 pm Tuesdays 10 am-3 pm 3-5 pm Wednesdays 10 am-3 pm 3-5 pm Thursdays 10 am-3 pm 3-5 pm Fridays 10 am-3 pm 3-5 pm Saturdays ----------- ----------- Sundays ----------- ----------- How to reach the LAUNCH tutors on MS Teams: Download MS Teams: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/download-app Click on the Teams icon Now look for this picture in the upper right-hand corner and click on it. Enter the code 8ybk84w Now you have reached the LAUNCH tutors! Post a message with your name and course name/number, and a tutor will help you. Successful students start strong, they find ways to stay strong, and they finish strong. Successful students also run into obstacles, sometimes. And when they do, they seek out help. Whether you are launching good habits or you’re facing challenges that impact your academic mission, call on LAUNCH. Academic hurdles? Our expertise can help you clear them. Academic goals? We can help you achieve them. Our mission is to connect you to just the services YOU need to be successful. Our mission is to help you achieve liftoff and keep accelerating right through to graduation. Our mission is your success. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies