Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Health Professions Departments Academics Career Paths Research Clinical Services About Our Campuses Make a gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Department of Hearing and Speech Our Campuses Make a gift Info for Department of Hearing and Speech Academics Academics Audiology Degrees Speech-Language Pathology Degrees Research Doctoral Degrees Clinical Education Graduate Funding Opportunities Student Handbooks Application Resources Career Paths Career Paths What is an audiologist? What is a speech-language pathologist? Research Research Research, Language and Learning Lab Auditory Processing Laboratory Auditory Research Laboratory Culturally Responsive Early Literacy Intervention Communication Complexity Scale Language Acquisition Studies Lab Measuring Early Communication in Students with Autism Speech and Applied Neuroscience Lab Word and Sound Learning Lab Clinical Services Clinical Services Hearing Services Speech-Language Pathology Services About About KU Medical Center Faculty and Staff KU Lawrence Campus Faculty and Staff Why KU Make a Gift Commencement Schedule a Visit Contact Us The Intercampus Program in Communicative Disorders will help you become a skilled clinician or prepare for research leadership in nationally recognized programs. Audiology Degrees Speech-Language Pathology Degrees Research Doctoral Degrees Intercampus Program in Communicative Disorders Take courses and learn from faculty in two departments and on two campuses ─ the Department of Hearing and Speech on the KU Medical Center campus and the Department of Speech-Language-Hearing: Sciences and Disorders on the KU Lawrence campus. Our researchers seek new ways to help individuals with hearing loss and reading and language disorders. Research Explore Research Opportunities Our program provides the best of both worlds ─ the KU Lawrence and KU Medical Center campuses ─ and all the degree options, outreach and faculty they provide. Learn More Why Choose KU? Visit the KU Medical Center and KU Lawrence campuses to learn more about our programs. Visit Schedule a Visit 8 M.A. in SLP ranking by U.S. News and World Report 14 Au.D. ranking by U.S. News and World Report 25% Projected growth of speech-language pathology employment (2019-2029) 100% KU’s Au.D. students find employment after graduation Contact the program today! Whether you are interested in audiology or speech-language pathology, our program contacts can answer your questions. Contact Us KU School of Health Professions Contact Us facebook Linked in youtube Make a gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.