COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biological Sciences: Secondary Education, Major MajorBiological Sciences: Secondary Education All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Biological Sciences Wichita State's Bachelor of Art's (BA) in biological sciences—secondary education—equips students with a broad knowledge of biology and prepares them for careers as certified teachers in grades 6-12 through classroom learning and real-world teaching experience in Kansas' largest school district. Learn how biological sciences: secondary education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum Curriculum covers a broad range of biological study—from general biology and microbiology to ecology, genetics and field botany—in addition to teaching courses within the College of Applied Studies and student-teaching experience in area schools. View the curriculum Careers Graduates of the biological sciences program are frequently employed as technicians in labs involved in basic biological research or applied research. They work in fields such as the physical, engineering and life sciences, education, pharmaceutical manufacturing and scientific consulting. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Education - Biology (Secondary) Biological Sciences 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©