Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY DENTAL PRE-CLINICAL Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENTPC 510 Dental Anatomy (4) Includes lecture and laboratory content on the morphology and nomenclature of individual teeth of the adult dentition; introduction to tooth histology and function; and the influence of tooth anatomy on clinical dental procedures. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 510 DENTPC 511 Introduction to Periodontics (2) Explores the clinical, histopathologic, and radiographic features of periodontal diseases, principles of preventive periodontics and initial examination of the periodontium. Topics include normal structure, classification and epidemiology of periodontal diseases, etiologic factors, host response, and pathogenic lesions and periodontal disease. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 511 DENTPC 520 Dental Occlusion (3) Topics include: fabrication of master case models; articulator use and function; contacts in MIP and CO, temporomandibular joint function; mandibular excursive movements; mandibular envelopes of movement; and how anatomical determinants influence occlusal function in all anatomical planes. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 520 DENTPC 523 Dental Materials Science 1 (1) Explores basic concepts of dental materials science, specifically the physical, mechanical, chemical and biological properties, as well as clinical applications of the dental materials commonly used in the fabrication and placement of direct and indirect restorations. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 523 DENTPC 530 Introduction to Operative Dentistry (2) Students become familiar with and obtain expertise in applied dental materials, elementary concepts of tooth restoration, understanding of etiology and preventive aspects of caries, understanding of caries management by risk assessment. Student learn and develop the surgical skills for the restoration of one surface pathologic lesions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 530 DENTPC 531 Introduction to Evidence-Based Dentistry (1) Evidence-based dental decision-making considers patient needs and desires, clinician strengths and weaknesses, and up-to-date research evidence. Students learn about why evidence-based patient care is safer and more effective. They learn how to evaluation scientific evidence on oral health, and apply it in clinical decision making. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 531 DENTPC 532 Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Theory 1 (2) This course prepares students for all courses where radiographs are needed for diagnosis, treatment planning or follow-up. Recognizing normal and aberrant anatomy on intraoral and extraoral radiographs will be covered as well as radiation protection. This will prepare the student for part 2 of the Radiology series (DENTPC 552) on radiographic pathology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 532 DENTPC 533 Dental Materials Science 2 (1) Explores basic concepts of dental materials science, specifically the physical, mechanical, chemical and biological properties, as well as clinical applications of the dental materials commonly used in the fabrication and placement of direct and indirect restorations. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 533 DENTPC 534 Introduction to Oral Pathology (3) This is the first course in a three-part series designed to introduce students to oral diseases bridging the field of dentistry to medicine. This course covers oral soft tissue diseases, etiology, pathogenesis, clinical signs and symptoms, histology, laboratory findings (when applicable), and prognosis. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 534 DENTPC 535 Removable Partial Denture Design (2) Develops proficiency in basic principles of the designs of removable partial dentures. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 535 DENTPC 550 Operative Dentistry 2 (5) Students obtain proficiency in applied dental materials, advanced concepts of tooth restoration, understanding of etiology and preventive aspect of caries, understanding of caries management by risk assessment. Students learn and develop the surgical skills for the restoration of multi-surface pathologic lesions. Emphasizes ergonomics and ethics. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 550 DENTPC 551 Immediate Dentures (3) Covers the basic principles of immediate denture and the procedures for the fabrication of an immediate denture. Topics include treatment planning; record maintenance; and laboratory steps for the fabrication of the ICD; surgical procedures; and post insertion care and complications. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 551 DENTPC 552 Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Theory 2 (1) This course covers dental anomalies and pathology of bone and how they present on radiographs of the head and neck region. The students will be taught how to interpret radiographs and how to formulate a differential diagnosis based on the characteristics of the radiographic appearance. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 552 DENTPC 553 Local Anesthesia (3) Covers the pharmacology, anatomy, techniques and clinical practice of local anesthesia. The safe and effective administration of local anesthesia is integral to general dentistry and most specialties. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 553 DENTPC 554 Oral Pathology 1 (2) This course covers common diseases of jaw bones. Each disease will be discussed to include: etiology and pathogenesis, clinical signs and symptoms, histological features, laboratory findings (when applicable), pitfalls in diagnosis and prognosis. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 554 DENTPC 560 Operative Dentistry 3 (3) Students become familiar with very small amalgam and composite class 2 slot restorations and learn the replacement of large cusp fractures, utilizing pins, slots, grooves, potholes, and endo posts for retention. Also teaches Class 2 intracoronal cast restorations and the restoration of teeth with Class 4 lesions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 560 DENTPC 561 Fixed Prosthodontics I (2) Students gain knowledge in the principles of fixed prosthodontics for the restoration of damaged tooth surfaces with metal and/or esthetic veneer single tooth restorations a well as become familiar with the material science and use of the various dental materials used in this discipline. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 561 DENTPC 562 Complete Dentures I (3) Deals with the basic principles of conventional complete denture fabrication, as well as the diagnosis and treatment of a completely edentulous patient. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 562 DENTPC 565 Conversations on Dental Practice (1) Provides the specific core content within each of the approximately 30 filaments within the practice management thread. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 565 DENTPC 570 Operative Dentistry 4 (2) Explores applied dental materials, advanced concepts of tooth restoration, understanding of etiology and preventive aspects of caries, understanding of caries management by risk assessment. Students learn and develop the surgical skills for the restoration of multi-surface pathologic lesions. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 570 DENTPC 571 Fixed Prosthodontics 2 (4) Explores the planning, restoration and replacement of missing teeth with fixed prostheses, planning and designing for the restoration of endodontically treated teeth as well as become familiar with the material science and use of the various dental materials used in this discipline. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 571 DENTPC 572 Complete Dentures 2 (2) Second of two courses dealing with the basic principles of conventional complete denture fabrication, as well as the diagnosis and treatment of a completely edentulous patient. The instructional material will be presented prior to each laboratory session. Affiliate instructors will supervise the laboratory application of the lecture instruction. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 572 DENTPC 573 Orthodontics 1: Growth and Development of the Face and Dentition (2) Explores principles of facial growth, occlusal development, and diagnosis of the different types of malocclusion. The overall goal is for the student to gain knowledge and skills necessary for the analysis and treatment of malocclusion. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 573 DENTPC 574 Oral Pathology 2 (4) Taught in a clinical-pathological conference (CPC) format, with cases directly building on and supplementing the lecture material covered in DENTPC 534 and DENTPC 554. Each class will start with a short lecture/review of the specific topic, followed by an in-depth discussion of ten clinical cases. Students participate in formulating a differential diagnosis, rendering a final diagnosis based on histology, and offering treatment and prognosis Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 574 DENTPC 575 Removable Partial Denture Technique (2) Prepares the pre-doctoral dental students to evaluate, design, prepare, fabricate and provide maintenance for a removable partial denture, when treating partially edentulous patients during their clinical training. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 575 DENTPC 576 Clinical Oral Radiology (2) Intraoral radiographic techniques (periapical, bitewing, occlusal and oblique occlusal radiography). Includes a virtual reality module (QBION) to practice periapical radiography skills. Students perform a quality assessment and a radiographic interpretation report on panoramic radiographs. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 576 DENTPC 577 Periodontics 2: Prevention/Periodontics (2) Introduction to prevention in dentistry. Topics covered include examination of the dentition and periodontium, dental disease indices, scaling and root planning instruments and instrumentation, sharpening, and oral hygiene chemotherapeutics. Students prepare for providing patient care in the next course, DENTPC 587-Periodontics 3. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 577 DENTPC 580 Operative Dentistry 5 (3) Explores applied dental materials, advanced concepts of tooth restoration, understanding of etiology and preventive aspects of caries, understanding of caries management by risk assessment. Students learn and develop the surgical skills for the restoration of multi-surface pathologic lesions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 580 DENTPC 581 Fixed Prosthodontics 3 (2) Explores indications, materials selection, fabrication of esthetic veneer restorations for fixed prostheses and the science of color application to esthetic restorations. The rationale is learned for resin-bonded ultraconservative fixed prostheses and resin or ceramic veneered prostheses. The student will plan and wax an anterior esthetics case. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 581 DENTPC 582 Implant Dentistry (2) Explores the basic science of osseointegration, and be able to manage the restorative phase of the partially and completely edentulous patient. Students will learn to use implant components, computer software for the planning and placement of the implants and to restore a single tooth implant in the laboratory. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 582 DENTPC 583 Orthodontics 2 (2) Explores the development of the occlusion, diagnosis of different types of malocclusion, and basic principles of biomechanics during orthodontic treatment. The goal is for the student to be able to analyze malocclusions and make appropriate treatment decisions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 583 DENTPC 584 Introduction to Endodontics (4) This introductory course in Endodontics includes both didactic and laboratory components. The didactic component covers the biology, pathology, diagnosis, and treatment of pulpal and periapical pathosis. The preclinical laboratory component covers endodontic treatment techniques using extracted and artifical teeth. The course prepares students for the third-year Endodontic Clerkship. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 584 DENTPC 585 Removable Partial Denture Technique (4) Describes those procedures that a dentist must perform to fabricate a removable partial denture. The projects will prepare the pre-doctoral students to evaluate, design, prepare, fabricate, and provide maintenance for the prosthesis when treating partially edentulous patients during their clinical training. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 585 DENTPC 586 Introduction to Pediatric Dentistry (2) Introduction to clinical pediatric dentistry, including behavior management, oral diagnosis, preventive dentistry, dental anomalies, radiography, anesthesia, restorative procedures, pulpal therapy, space maintenance and traumatic dental injuries in the primary and permanent dentitions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 586 DENTPC 587 Periodontics 3: Prevention/Periodontics II (2) This course is the clinical application of topics covered the prior quarter. Students will see patients for preventive maintenance appointments and will apply knowledge in caries detection and treatment planning, identification of periodontal predisposing factors, dentinal hypersensitivity, and advanced instrumentation. Students will provide patient care in the weekly clinical sessions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTPC 587 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022