Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Geosciences Menu Search TTU Department of Geosciences Department of Geosciences Department News and Announcements Welcome from the Department Chair. Congratulations to Nicholas Clark (Nick) who earned the Third Place Award in TTU 3-Minute Thesis Competition organized by TTU Graduate School. After interviewing several candidates, Dr. Michael San Francisco has selected Dr. Callum Hetherington to serve as Interim Department Chair effective September 1, 2021. Dr. Hetherington has broad service experience in the department, college and university making for a strong background to manage the department. Congratulations to Dr. George Asquith, Dr. Cal Barnes, Dr. Tom Lehman and Dr. Kevin Mulligan on their recent retirements. These faculty gave a combined 113 year of service to the university. Some plan to continue to pursue academic endeavors and others to enjoy retirement and travel. These faculty members have influenced an entire generation of students and will leave big shoes to fill. We wish each one a very happy retirement! Congratulations to Dr. Tarek Kandakji (TTU Ph.D. 2020) who has accepted a position as a Remote Sensing Specialist at Yale Univeristy. Geology faculty Dr. Aaron Yoshinobu and Dr. Cal Barnes received funding from NSF ($368,003) in collaboration with Dr. Kathleen Surpless ($160,000) (Trinity University, San Antonio) titled: Testing models for the Late Jurassic Nevadan Orogeny: Age, provenance, and structural evolution of the Galice and Mariposa basins, Oregon and California. This collaborative project will involve TTU graduate and undergraduate students along with undergraduate students from Trinity University Geography faculty Jen Henderson recently received a grant from the 2021 NOAA-WPO-SBES ($422,603) to continue research with her co-PI Erik Nielsen (TAMU) on public vulnerability to overlapping weather hazards during landfalling tropical cyclones. She also received a stipend from the Natural Hazards Center at the University of Colorado, Boulder, to publish previously collected Twitter data from a NOAA Vortex Southeast grant on overlapping hazards during Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Florence. Atmospheric science faculty Dr. Sandip Pal recently received two grants: One within the 2021-NOAA-OAR program ($335,981) and another within the 2021-NASA-SBIR Phase I program ($17,096). Pal will be also working for the development of Phase II project within the NASA SBIR/STTR program in 2021. Congratulations to Dr. Jen Henderson who has been recently named Chair of the Board on Societal Impacts for the American Meteorological Society as well as Associate Editor for the journal Weather, Climate and Society Dr. Sandip Pal named Associate Editor for Frontiers in Remote Sensing (Lidar Sensing) Dr. Sandip Pal has been awarded the 2020 International Research and Development Seed Grant awarded by the TTU Office of International Affairs; please see attached the PDF. Project: Exploring the complexities in atmospheric boundary layer dynamics over mountainous regions using lidar and in-situ observations. We are proud to announce that Dr. Harold Gurrola, Associate Professor Geosciences, will be awarded the 2020 Professing Excellence Award! Each year, Texas Tech students are given the opportunity to nominate faculty members and present awards to those who have demonstrated exceptional educational skills. Congratulations to Dr. Gurrola for winning this award and representing the Department of Geosciences! More news... We are hiring!! Four Assistant Professors for Fall 2022 Human Geography and Climate Physical Geography and Climate Shallow Crustal Geophysics Strategic Mineral and Metal Resources in Igneous Systems Tweets by ttugeosciences Research Day Department of Geosciences Like Department of Geosciences on FacebookLike Department of Geosciences on Facebook Follow Department of Geosciences on twitterFollow Department of Geosciences on twitter Connect with Department of Geosciences on LinkedInConnect with Department of Geosciences on LinkedIn Address Department of Geosciences, 1200 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409-1053 Phone 806.742.3102 Email geosciences@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 26, 2022 4:41 PM Department of Geosciences Academics Department of Geosciences Academics Back Programs Department of Geosciences Academics Programs Back Atmospheric Science Geography and GIScience Geology and Geophysics Scholarships Department of Geosciences Academics Scholarships Back Apply for scholarships Giving Scholarship Recipients Scholarship News Prospective Students Department of Geosciences Academics Prospective Students Back Graduate Department of Geosciences Academics Prospective Students Graduate Back Atmospheric Science Geography and GIScience Geology and Geophysics Undergraduate Department of Geosciences Academics Prospective Students Undergraduate Back Geography and GIScience Geoscience (Geology, Geophysics, Environmental Geology) Student Societies Degree Programs Prospective Student Projects 2021-2022 International Opportunities Department of Geosciences Academics International Opportunities Back South Africa Bahamas Youthmappers News and Alumni Connections Department of Geosciences News and Alumni Connections Back About Geosciences Department of Geosciences News and Alumni Connections About Geosciences Back Department History Faculty History Strategic Plan Find Us On Map From the Chair Colloquium Speakers News Department of Geosciences News and Alumni Connections News Back Newsletter Faculty/Student News Student Society News Student Spotlights Alumni Spotlights Science Reports Outreach Alumni Department of Geosciences News and Alumni Connections Alumni Back Giving Scholarship Recipients Contact Update Form Research Department of Geosciences Research Back Research Department of Geosciences Research Research Back Research Groups Research Day Facilities Department of Geosciences Research Facilities Back Aqueous Geochemistry Geo Analytical Lab Measurement and Analysis Lab BOLT GIS Computer Lab Remote Sensing Lab Stable Isotope Geochem Microscopy Partners Department of Geosciences Research Partners Back National Wind Institute West Texas Mesonet Center Geospatial Technology Climate Center USA ARS CRL Lubbock COE Water Resources Center TTU Museum: Palentology High Performance Center Lubbock National Weather Service People Department of Geosciences People Back People Department of Geosciences People People Back Directory Graduate Students Colloquium Speakers Giving Safety Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index