Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries DoubleTree Hotel You are here Home About Faculty & Staff Resources Business Services University-approved Hotels DoubleTree Hotel Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Hotel Information 237 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19107 (Broad & Locust streets) Temple University's agreement with the DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Philadelphia Center City covers the contract period from Jan. 1, 2022 to Dec. 31, 2023. The rates listed below are subject to applicable taxes of 0.75% Philadelphia levy tax and 15.5% sales tax. Please contact the DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Philadelphia Center City as far in advance as possible to book rooms, hold rooms or schedule events. If you have any questions, contact the Office of Business Services at 215-204-3121. Temple University Rates 2022–2023* Standard Guest Room Direct Bill Rates (Reservations Paid for by Temple University) The guest room rates below apply to functions, group bookings or individual reservations when made by an authorized Temple University representative, and when charges are paid by Temple University via direct billing. In addition, these rates apply to those reservations in which attendees have valid, current Temple University identification which must be presented upon check-in. Date Range Cost Jan. 1–Feb. 28, 2022 $139 March 1–June 30, 2022 $155 July 1–Aug. 31, 2022 $145 Sept. 1–Nov. 19, 2022 $159 Nov. 20, 2022–Feb. 28, 2023 $145 March 1–June 30, 2023 $162 July 1–Aug. 31, 2023 $149 Sept. 1–Nov. 18, 2023 $164 Nov. 19–Dec. 30, 2023 $149 To make a reservation by Direct Bill, contact Reservations at 215-893-1674 to check for availability. Once availability has been confirmed, submit a fully completed Temple University Direct Bill Form via email to Shavonne Briggs at shavonne.briggs@hilton.com for processing. Please note: Reservations will not be made unless the form is completed in full. When the reservation is made, an auto-generated confirmation from the hotel’s reservation system, followed by the Direct Bill Request Form with confirmation, will be sent to the requestor by email no later than two business days after receipt of request. You may also call 215-893-1600 and indicate that you want the Temple University room rate. After the reservation has been made by telephone, confirm your reservation with the hotel by submitting a completed Temple University Direct Bill Form (for use only when charges are to be paid by Temple) via email to shavonne.briggs@hilton.com. Please note that if the clerk does not receive the direct bill form, your reservation may be canceled. Standard Guest Room Affiliate Rates (Reservations Not Paid by Temple University) The preferred rates below apply to functions, group bookings and/or individual reservations that may be scheduled by a Temple University affiliate who is responsible for their own hotel and related charges. The preferred rate will also be extended to Temple University faculty, staff, students and prospective students when staying at the hotel on personal or Temple-related business. Date Range Cost Jan. 1–Feb. 28, 2022 $149 March 1–June 30, 2022 $165 July 1–Aug. 31, 2022 $155 Sept. 1–Nov. 19, 2022 $169 Nov. 20, 2022–Feb. 28, 2023 $155 March 1–June 30, 2023 $172 July 1–Aug. 31, 2023 $159 Sept. 1–Nov. 18, 2023 $174 Nov. 19–Dec. 30, 2023 $159 Reservations for Temple University associates can be made by calling 215-893-1600 and requesting the Temple University rate using booking code 560001148 or by using this reservation link. Reservations must be guaranteed with a valid credit card. * Note: If there are no standard guest rooms available at the contracted prices above for direct bill or associate rates, premium guest rooms (PURE, executive level or suites) may be available at a 10% discount off the daily rate. Group Reservations/Meeting Space Requests Rates for groups reserving 10+ rooms will be negotiated based on hotel availability. The rate will be negotiated at a 20% or greater discount of the best available rate. All group reservations made by authorized Temple University representatives will be arranged through the hotel's group sales department. Please contact Michelle Mercier at 215-893-1683 or by email at michelle.mercier@hilton.com. For catering functions (banquets or one-day meetings) that do not require sleeping rooms, contact Robin Rizzo, catering manager, at 215-893-1689 or by email to robin.rizzo@hilton.com. Cancellation Policy The hotel will assess no penalty charge for cancellations made at least 24 hours in advance of scheduled check-in. A cancellation number should be provided from a reservation agent for reference and tracking purposes. Parking Self-parking is available at the Park America garage adjacent to the hotel. Current rates are $35 per night. Park America is not owned or operated by the hotel and the rates are subject to change without prior notice. Internal Billing Instructions/Payment Policy Upon receipt of the invoice from DoubleTree, please be sure to sign the invoice and code it with the account and center number and forward it to accounts payable for processing. This charge will appear on your cost center report the following month. For functions or group bookings that are not billed to Temple University, payment must be made in advance unless credit has been established with the DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Philadelphia Center City Credit Office. Contact Carol Borner at 215-893-1686 for more information. Go back to AboutMore in University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.