Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Bassler receives 2015 Shaw Prize in life science and medicine by Morgan Kelly, Office of Communications June 3, 2015, 3:45 p.m. Bonnie Bassler Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Bonnie Bassler, Princeton University's Squibb Professor in Molecular Biology and chair of the Department of Molecular Biology, was named a 2015 Shaw Laureate in life science and medicine June 1. Awarded by the Hong Kong-based Shaw Foundation, the Shaw Prize honors recent breakthroughs by active researchers in the fields of mathematics, astronomy and life and medical sciences. Bassler was recognized for her well-known work in quorum sensing, a widespread process that bacteria use for cell-to-cell communication. Understanding quorum sensing "offers innovative ways to interfere with bacterial pathogens or to modulate the microbiome for health applications," according to the prize citation. Bassler will share the $1 million prize with E. Peter Greenberg, a University of Washington professor of microbiology. The 2015 prizes will be awarded during a Sept. 24 ceremony in Hong Kong. Since joining the Princeton faculty in 1994, Bassler has received numerous honors, including a MacArthur "Genius Grant" Fellowship in 2002, election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007, and the 2012 L'Oréal-UNESCO For Women in Science Award, which recognizes women whose work promotes the advancement of science. Bassler received her doctorate in biochemistry from Johns Hopkins University in 1990, and her bachelor's degree in biochemistry from the University of California-Davis in 1984. In addition to Bassler, past Princeton faculty member Gerd Faltings, now the managing director of the Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in Germany, shared the Shaw Prize in mathematical sciences for his work in number theory. Faltings was a Princeton professor of mathematics from 1985 to 1994, during which time he received the 1986 Fields Medal, one of the most prestigious awards in mathematics. Media mogul and philanthropist Run Run Shaw founded the Shaw Prize in 2002. The 2010 Shaw Prize in astronomy went to Princeton faculty members Lyman Page, the Henry De Wolf Smyth Professor of Physics, and David Spergel, the Charles A. Young Professor of Astronomy on the Class of 1897 Foundation, for their leadership of the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) experiment. Princeton Class of 1978 alumnus David Donoho, now a professor of statistics at Stanford University, received the 2013 Shaw Prize in mathematics for his work to get a more detailed analysis out of large numerical data sets. Related Stories Alumnus Donoho receives Shaw Prize in mathematics Read more Kollár receives 2017 Shaw Prize in mathematics Read more Princeton scientists win Shaw Prize for helping map the universe Read more Bonnie Bassler has been awarded the 2022 Microbiology Society Prize Medal Read more FACULTY AWARD: Princeton researchers among recipients of 2012 Gruber Cosmology Prize Read more Bassler, Diller and alumnus Lustzig win Wolf Prizes in chemistry, architecture and math Read more Bassler receives Gruber Genetics Prize for discoveries on how bacteria communicate Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice