Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Political Science Undergraduate Graduate BA/MA JD/MA Advising Internships People News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Internship Resources Requirements Legislative Representative/Senator Intern Positions Washington Urban Fellows Caissa Public Strategy Take Action Alumni and Friends Make a Gift to Political Science Registered Student Organizations / Clubs Contact Follow Us Online Facebook Home Political Science Internships Internships Requirements for 3 Credit Internships: Students seeking academic internship credit in Political Science must have both a minimum 2.0 GPA and have completed 60 credit hours (junior status) at the time of application for credit. Students seeking internship credit must email Prof. Ebony Dawkins at endawkns@memphis.edu to request an application for internship credit. At a minimum, students must work 150 working hours during the semester to be eligible for 3 academic credit hours in POLS 4231. Students may earn 6 credit hours in one semester for POLS 4231, based on the working hours to be completed. Students granted a permit to register for the academic internship course will receive notification via their university email including the CRN for which the student may register and an internship packet with all documents for which the student is responsible to submit to successfully complete the internship course. To be eligible to receive academic credit for an internship experience, students must register for the internship course, POLS 4231, and pay tuition for the credit hours. Students receiving academic internship credits in Political Science should be aware that the grades earned for the course are “S” for Satisfactory or “U” for Unsatisfactory. For information on how these grades may affect your GPA, please view the Registrar’s website. At the end of the semester in which you are registered for academic internship credit, all of the documents in the internship packet must be submitted via eCourseware. *It is the student’s responsibility to submit all documents by the appropriate due date to receive academic credit for their internship experience.* Legislative Internship: Every Spring semester, the University of Memphis sends approximately twenty students to Nashville to serve as interns in the Tennessee General Assembly. Students live and work in Nashville where they are assigned to work for a representative, senator, or legislative committee responsible for lawmaking in our State. Interns will be assigned to legislative leadership offices and committees and will be expected to devote full time to their legislative duties during the term of their appointments, adapting to the legislative schedule. Duties will vary from office to office, but will include bill analysis, constituent work, research and general office work. This is a great opportunity to view the process of State politics first-hand! Student interns will earn a minimum of 12 college-credit hours at the 4000 level for approximately 600 working hours over the course of the Spring semester. To help defray the costs of living in Nashville, students earn approximately $400/week. Eligible students will have a minimum of 60 credit hours earned by the end of the Fall semester to apply for the following Spring legislative session, with a minimum 3.0 GPA. Students in all majors are encouraged to apply for this opportunity. Application materials for the Spring 2022 legislative session are available below. Application Instructions: Students will need to submit their application materials via email to Prof. Ebony Dawkins at legislativeinternship@memphis.edu, by October 29, 2021 at 5 p.m. Internship Application 2022 Autobiography (Brief, 1-page to 3-page autobiographical statement) Transcript – Please be sure these files are not password protected. Intern Appraisal Questionnaire 2022 #1 Intern Appraisal Questionnaire 2022 #2 Résumé TLIP Uniform Policies 2022 NOTE: All documents should be submitted as PDF files. Please send all documents in one email. File names should include the applicants full name. (Example: TonyTigerAutobiography.pdf) You can learn more about the internship via the Tennessee General Assembly’s website. Or download the brochure. You can also request further information by emailing the Faculty Representative, Prof. Ebony Dawkins, at legislativeinternship@memphis.edu. Representative/Senator Intern Positions: Interns working in any of these three offices will handle constituent service, fielding opinions from constituents, research as well as other office duties. To apply for any of these positions send a resume, transcript (unofficial), and writing sample to Ebony Dawkins. Representative Steve Cohen The Clifford Davis/Odell Horton Federal Building 167 North Main Street, Suite 369 Memphis, TN 38103 Representative Stephen Fincher 5384 Poplar Avenue, Suite 410 Memphis, TN 38119 Senator Bob Corker 100 Peabody Place, Suite 1125 Memphis, TN 38103 Washington Center: The Washington Center (TWC) for Internships and Academic Seminars is a highly competitive internship program in Washington, DC that includes an internship, academic coursework and real-life experiences in the nation's capital. Through the Tennessee of Board Regents (TBR), up to five (5) University of Memphis students are eligible to receive up to $5,000 in scholarships. An additional $1,250is contingent upon students staying in TWC housing and comes directly from The Washington Center. Visit http://www.twc.edu/ to learn more about the program. For scholarship and application information, contact the Campus Liaison, Yolanda Dillard, at (901) 678-5634 or e-mail ydillard@memphis.edu. Urban Fellows Program: The UFP is a year-round initiative that offers local college students the opportunity to intern with various divisions of the City of Memphis Government. The program serves primarily to enhance the interaction of area college students with the City, advancing the purpose of getting students to consider employment after graduation. Departments could include Human Resources, Executive Division (Governor's Office), Public Works, Law, and Police. This is an unpaid internship. The enrolled fellows will intern or work with the City of Memphis for ten (10) hours or more per week for one (1) semester. Fellows will also have regularly scheduled mentoring sessions throughout the semester and present a final report on their particular project covered. All fellows may receive college credit for their program participation if this is agreed upon with the educational agency. Interested students should apply online at www.memphistn.gov. You must select "Career Opportunities" and follow the prompts to "Register" to proceed with the Urban Fellows application. Feel free to view the Urban Fellows video on YouTube to hear from past participants. For questions, you may contact Linda Delaney by email. Caissa Public Strategy: Caissa Public Strategy works with non-profit agencies, government entities, and corporations to ensure that they are pursuing the best possible plan for achieving success. Caissa focuses on developing relationships between organizations and their key targets and stakeholders. Caissa conducts research, creates action plans, and solves problems for organizations that are seeking strategic change. The student will learn how to interact with non-profits, government agencies, and legislative bodies on the local, state and federal levels. Intern responsibilities may include but are not limited to: maintaining and creating blog content; researching potential blog topics and content; maintaining Caissa's social media sites; coordinating social media campaigns; working on press releases and earned media pieces; supportive services for everyday tasks; and coordinating volunteer and community outreach for special projects. This is a paid opportunity. Stipends will be commensurate with experience and activities assigned. To apply, students should send resumes and writing samples to Brandy Sims. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.