Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students Apply Now People SMU Guildhall: A Network of Game Changers Every member of the SMU Guildhall family contributes to our story. We're proud of the successful past we've had as a program, watching our students and alumni grow into stellar careers, and are excited to see the bright future that's ahead. We're also proud of the cycle of success we maintain. The SMU Guildhall faculty of industry leaders teach our students to be skillful game developers. Those alumni go on to become pros, leading teams of their own and publishing top tiles. And they return to give back to the next generation, imparting wisdom in a multitude of ways and hiring our talent. This cycle makes the SMU Guildhall family strong and connected, and it's one of the many reasons our community continues to evolve and expand in both impact and size. Our students Our diverse student body comes from a variety of backgrounds and perspectives. They have represented 48 states and 13 countries. Learn more Our alumni We have graduated more then 770 alumni who have gone on to work at over 270 game studios and tech companies around the world. Many have gone on to occupy senior or lead positions within 4-7 years after graduation. Learn more Our Faculty Our full-time faculty are industry veterans, who have worked on more than 290 professional games across three decades at over 40 leading game studios. Our adjunct faculty are leading game developers that make games by day and teach here in the evenings. Learn more about our faculty Our Staff Our staff members have a wide range of experience in higher education and 90 years of cumulative experience at SMU. They are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our program. Learn more about our staff Featured Faculty Elizabeth Stringer Director, Academics; Faculty, AT&T Virtualization Center View Details Featured Alumni Daniel Rivin Lead Software Engineer at Bungie View Details Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x