Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedIn Home Computer Science Giving Supporting the Department The Department has been fortunate to receive several generous gifts from donors. Gifts can endow professorships, scholarships, fellowships, classrooms, and labs for our students. They can also be used to help defray travel expenses for conferences to present research papers, as well as many other activities that are extremely meaningful to our students and the Memphis community. If you are interested in making a tax-deductible donation, please visit the University of Memphis Giving site. Select "All CAS Funds" Select "Computer Science Discretionary Fund" (for general support) or "Diversity in Computer Science Scholarship" (to support that specific award). Your support is greatly appreciated! Major Donors Peter I. Neathery (1942-2000) An alumnus of Hendrix College and the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Peter I. Neathery was a doctoral candidate in computer science at the University of Memphis, where he distinguished himself in several classes and coauthored papers with faculty of the Department. Mr. Neathery's generous gift to the Department has made possible the endowment of the Peter I. Neathery Scholarship and Fellowship Fund. The fund will award scholarships and graduate fellowships to deserving undergraduate and graduate students in computer science for generations to come. Additionally, Mr. Neathery's gift supports the Peter I. Neathery Colloquium Fund, which allows us to hold our Colloquium Series each Spring and Fall semester. C. E. and S. Foundation, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Smith The C. E. and S. Foundation and Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Smith provided funding to establish an endowment to honor the memory of Matt Smith. The fund allowed the Department to award the Matt Smith Memorial Scholarship for a number of years, with preference given to incoming freshmen from Collierville High School with plans to major in Computer Science. Intel Corp. Intel generously supports ten of our Diversity in Computer Science scholarships, in addition to providing funding for the Creative Game Design Camp. Computer Science Discretionary Fund Donors Steve Ash Robert Jackson Phani D. Vajha Lan Wang Jarek Wilkiewicz Parya Zareie Diversity in Computer Science Scholarship Donors Lei Pi Lan Wang Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.