Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Alumni & Friends Alumni Parents Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Senior Legacy Challenge Donate Back Back Close Committee Application FAQ FLIGHT Pass FAQ Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Donate Donate via Eagle Bucks Follow us on Instagram for campaign and event updates We’re not just leaving the Heights; we’re leaving a legacy! As seniors, together we can unite to leave our legacy at the Heights. Let’s celebrate our time at Boston College by paying it forward for the generations of Eagles who will follow in our footsteps. Honor your friends, memories, and achievements at BC by giving to what you love on campus. Join us to secure our legacy at the Heights for years to come. Why should I give? There are a ton of reasons to give. Here are two big ones: To join my classmates in honoring what we love about BC. Now is our chance to pay tribute to that professor, that class, that student activity that changed our lives forever. To lead the way for future Eagles. We can help ensure that their experiences at the Heights will be just as great as ours. Hear From Our Committee Members "I supported the Student Financial Aid Fund, so future Eagles can get to enjoy the school that l love! As a recipient of financial aid, I know that giving means that students from all socio-economic backgrounds can receive a top-notch education, and not be limited because of their circumstances. As a senior, I was happy to pay it forward--and I hope you choose to do so too!" -Czar Sepe ‘ 21 "As a first generation college student I chose to support Montserrat. I wanted my gift to demonstrate gratitude for the education I received, friendships and memories made in my four years and to contribute to the continuation of the same programs and resources for future classes." -Xiao Yan Liu ‘21 "I donated to the Flynn Fund because ever since I was a kid I grew up going to the Boston College football games. Tailgates started as a family tradition and then I continued that school spirit when I was a student, and I look forward to continuing as an alumni by going back to sporting events. I admire the hard work of student athletes and think it’s important to give back to the Flynn Fund so teams, players and coaches get the resources they need to succeed as Eagles!" -Cameron Stonehouse ‘21 Why do our gifts matter at a big school like BC? Many of us don't realize that tuition doesn't cover all of the BC experience. If you look at the big picture, you'd find that a lot of the stuff that makes BC great—the stellar academics, the student resources, the top-ranked athletics, and the service programs—is only possible through the support of our alumni donors. Now is our first chance to join them for BC. What can I give to? You can support what you love. By giving to what matters most you on the Heights, your gift can be as unique as you are. Perhaps you relied on financial aid to attend BC and want to pay it forward by supporting student scholarships. Maybe the PULSE program inspired your worldview. Or a student organization introduced you to your closest friends. Many Students Choose to Support General Scholarship Fund The Class of 2023 Legacy Fund Athletics through the Flynn Fund OR A student organization close to their heart! You can support the programs and initiatives that are most personally meaningful—the choice is yours. Not sure where to give? Email us at seniorgift@bc.edu to tell us what you’re passionate about and we’ll help you find the right fund to support! Donate Donate via Eagle Bucks Your BC email address will expire in October, please update your contact information here. Have a great idea on how to engage the Class of 2023? Want to suggest an event? Eager to share why you gave? Email us at seniorgift@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok