Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Graduate School Menu Search TTU Graduate School Admissions International Prospective Students For students who are not citizens/permanent residents of the U.S. Texas Tech fosters an environment of inclusion and engagement and encourages original critical and creative thinking in a personalized setting. Along the way, you'll have access to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment, an internationally renowned faculty, comprehensive professional and career development activities, and numerous internship and other opportunities to enhance your experience as a graduate student at Texas Tech University. Recommended Deadlines for International Students Recommended deadlines for international students are as follows: January 15 for Fall and Summer semesters June 15 for Spring semesters International applicants may apply after these preferred deadlines. However, the Office of Graduate Admissions cannot guarantee there will be sufficient time for late applications to be evaluated and make any necessary visa/travel arrangements if admitted. Certain departments have more specific and strict deadlines for applications to be considered for admission and funding. We recommend that you contact the department that houses your intended program and confirm the deadline to ensure you submit your application on time. Submitting incorrect information on your application or failing to include important details can delay the admissions process. Nonrefundable Application Fee $75 initial application fee (non-refundable) $25 for each subsequent application, including readmits and program/level/entry date changes (non-refundable) The fee will be paid online with a credit card as part of the application process. Full-time and at least half-time employees (staff or faculty) of TTU/TTUHSC may qualify for an application fee waiver. Please complete this form and email it to graduate.admissions@ttu.edu before submitting your application. Transcripts & Required Documents All applicants must provide transcripts for each degree-awarding post-secondary college or university attended. Transcripts must contain a record of all courses taken and all grades received - This includes mark sheets, examination results, etc. All applicants must have earned a bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited post-secondary institution in the United States or its equivalent from a foreign institution. Non-US institutions must be recognized by their government/government ministry or department to award undergraduate and/or post-graduate degrees. For more specified information on required transcripts, see the "Country-Specific Document Information" section below. If the transcripts are NOT provided in English or the institution does NOT issue transcripts in English, an official English translation of all transcripts and/or all mark sheets is required. The Office of Graduate Admissions will not accept a public notary certification. All English translations must be done by an American Translators Association-certified translator. For a list of translation companies we accept, visit the Translation Information page on our FAQ site. A list of ATA-certified translators is available online at www.atanet.org/onlinedirectories. All documents submitted with the application are considered to be unofficial. If admitted, the applicant will be required to submit official transcripts, diplomas/degree certificates, English translations, and test scores by the 12th class day of the term to which the applicant is admitted. All international applicants must be in good academic standing at any school they are currently attending. All international applicants must have been in good standing in all schools they previously attended at their final matriculation. If the degree is not complete when the application is made, six semesters or three years of course work are required. Country-Specific Document Information Academic credentials from India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan: Applicants must submit all individual marksheets or grade cards indicating all subjects taken and all marks obtained for all years of post-secondary study. These marksheets or grade cards must be issued by the institution responsible for conducting the examinations. Consolidated marksheets or grade cards sent without the individual marksheets may not be acceptable. If your school only provides consolidated marksheets, you must also include documentation from your school on school letterhead signed by the school official responsible for issuing academic records. The document must state that the school does not issue individual or semester marksheets or grade cards. Academic credentials from Nigeria: Texas Tech University Graduate School does not consider National Diplomas and Higher National Diplomas as equivalent to a US bachelor's degree, whether alone or in combination with each other. Therefore, applicants with an ND/HND that do not have any additional academic credentials are not eligible for graduate study at Texas Tech University Graduate School. Academic credentials from China: Applicants can submit one of the following sets of documents - Official Transcripts, Degree Certificates/Graduation Certificates, and Diplomas in Chinese, PLUS English translations of each OR Official Verifications from the China Academic Degrees and Graduate Education Development Center (CDGDC) AND/OR China Higher Education Student Information and Career Center (CHESICC). CDGDC and/or CHESICC verifications must contain Chinese and English translations of the transcripts, degree certificates/graduation certificates, and diplomas. Academic credentials from Iran: While we accept translation packets that include both the English translation and a copy of the original language transcript for application evaluation purposes, if you are admitted you must provide separate, final, and official documents in the original language in addition to your official English translations. All supporting documents must be academic records issued in Farsi/Persian unless the language of the original/official transcript or diploma is English. In addition to your academic records in Farsi/Persian, we must have English translations. English translations should be stamped and approved by the Ministry of Justice of Iran or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. English translations are not required for Iranian students who have official English transcripts from the following institutions ONLY: Sharif University of Technology Shiraz University Isfahan University Tabriz University Amir Kabir University University of Tehran NOTE: These English transcripts must be formally stamped and signed by the university administration the university registrar. We will also accept formal translation packets for these universities signed by the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. English transcripts from universities other than those listed above may not be accepted. Official Proof of English Proficiency All international applicants must provide proof of English proficiency before their applications can be considered for admission. Only your most recent measure of English proficiency is considered for admission purposes. This test is waived only for graduates of U.S. universities or universities in English proficiency-exempt countries. Applicants who have completed at least two consecutive years at a college or university in the U.S. or in an English proficiency-exempt country, are also exempt from the English proficiency requirement. If you believe you may be exempt, please download and complete this form and email it to graduate.admissions@ttu.edu. Applicants may submit one of the following English proficiency measures: Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) – We accept the TOEFL iBT test or the TOEFL Essentials test. The minimum TOEFL iBT score required is 79. The minimum TOEFL Essentials score required is 8.5. The TOEFL score must be received directly from the Educational Testing Service. Texas Tech University's institutional code is 6827. TOEFL scores are valid for only two years. International English Language Testing Service (IELTS) – The minimum IELTS required score is an overall band score of 6.5 on the Academic version. IELTS General Training results are not acceptable. There is no IELTS institution code for Texas Tech University. IELTS scores are valid for only two years. Duolingo English Test (Online examination) - The minimum required Duolingo score is 100. There is no institutional code for Duolingo, but applicants will need to select "Texas Tech Graduate School" as the institution to send scores to. Duolingo scores are reported within 48 hours and are valid for two years. Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic) – The minimum required PTE Academic score is 60. PTE General and PTE Young Learners results are not acceptable. There is no PTE Academic institution code for Texas Tech University. PTE Academic scores are valid for only two years. Cambridge C2 Proficiency Test (Cambridge CPE) – The minimum required Cambridge CPE grade is a score of 180 or above There is no institutional code for the Cambridge CPE. The Cambridge CPE is valid for life. Cambridge C1 Advanced Proficiency Test (Cambridge CAE) – The minimum required Cambridge CAE grade is a score of 175 or above. There is no institutional code for the Cambridge CAE. The Cambridge CAE is valid for life. Completion of ELS Level 112 – transcript and certificate required. Conditional admission for English proficiency may be available for prospective students who do not meet the minimum required English proficiency standard. More information. Proof of Financial Support (Optional) Applicants may provide proof of financial support as part of their application materials, or they may provide proof upon learning of their admission decision. This document is not necessary for application evaluation purposes. The Graduate School offers a limited number of fellowships. However, most financial assistance for new students is awarded by departments and not by the Graduate School. All correspondence regarding financial assistance should be conducted with the department to which the applicant is applying. Residency Questionnaire Information for Tuition International applicants do not complete the core residency questions as part of the ApplyTexas application because there are few visa categories eligible to establish a domicile for residency for tuition purposes. You may view a list of visas eligible to establish a domicile for residency for tuition purposes here. If your visa category allows you to establish a domicile for residency for tuition purposes, please submit the Residency Questionnaire to graduate.admissions@ttu.edu, in-person in Administration Building Room 328, or by mail. Requests for reclassification must be submitted by the tenth class day (the second class day for summer terms) of the semester for the term for which you are trying to establish residency. This is because your residency status must be updated by the twelfth class day (the fourth class day for summer terms) in order for the change to take effect for that term, and we must have time to review each set of questions. Questionnaires received after that date will still be reviewed, but any updates to your residency status will not take effect until the following term. Restricted IP Addresses Texas Tech Graduate School's chosen application system, in accordance with U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations, does not support users accessing online applications from Cuba, Iran, North Korea, or the region of Crimea without prior approval from the U.S. government. If you are a student who has created an application account and you cannot access your application due to a restricted IP error, please email graduate.admissions@ttu.edu for more information on how Texas Tech Graduate School can adjust the admissions process for you. Return of Documents All submitted documents become the property of Texas Tech University and will not be returned. Questions? Comments? Contact us at graduate.admissions@ttu.edu. More Information See a list of Required Bachelor Degree Equivalents See a list of English proficiency-exempt countries. Conditional admission for English proficiency may be available for prospective students who do not meet the minimum required English proficiency standard through ELS Educational Services. If you have any other questions, please email us at graduate.admissions@ttu.edu. From Here, It's Possible Texas Tech has a place ready for you. Double TDouble T Apply HeartHeart Give Contact Contact UsContact Contact Us Contact Us Graduate School Like Graduate School on FacebookLike Graduate School on Facebook Follow Graduate School on twitterFollow Graduate School on twitter Subscribe to Graduate School on YouTubeSubscribe to Graduate School on YouTube Address Administration Building 328, Texas Tech University, 2625 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409-1030 Phone 806.742.2787 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 7, 2022 11:52 AM Graduate School About Graduate School About Back Office of the Dean Graduate School About Office of the Dean Back Leadership & Staff Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Dean's Advisory Council Graduate Council Graduate School About Back About Graduate Council Members Minutes Archive Initiatives/ Reports Graduate School About Back 18 Characteristics of Doctoral Programs Strategic Plan Year in Review Graduate Program Review Coalition of Next Generation Life Sciences Rankings Admissions Graduate School Admissions Back Prospective Students Graduate School Admissions Back How to Apply Apply Now Join Mailing List Admissions Information Graduate School Admissions Back Help Center & FAQ Residency Information Tuition & Fees Newly Admitted Students Graduate School Admissions Back Admitted Checklist New Graduate Student Orientation Admissions Team Graduate Programs Graduate School Graduate Programs Back All Graduate Programs Accelerated Bachelor to Master's Programs Graduate Certificates Interdisciplinary Degrees Graduate School Graduate Programs Back About Self-designed Programs Arid Land Studies Biotechnology Heritage and Museum Sciences, MA Interdisciplinary Master of Science - Energy Land-Use Planning, Management, and Design, Ph.D. Wind Science and Engineering, Ph.D. Professional Science Masters Graduate School Graduate Programs Back Program Overview Admission Requirements Application Process & Deadlines Contact Us Financial Support Graduate School Financial Support Back Funding Your Education Graduate School Financial Support Back About Financial Aid Assistantships Tuition & Fees Student Employment Office of Graduate & Postdoctoral Fellowships Graduate School Financial Support Back About Staff & Contact Information Graduate School Fellowships & Assistantships Graduate School Financial Support Back About Recruitment Opportunities General Fellowships Doctoral Fellowships Student Requirements External Fellowships & Grants Graduate School Financial Support Back About Resources Search For Opportunities Submit & Followup Student Support/Recognition Graduate School Financial Support Back Student Travel Graduate Student Research Support Awards Raider Relief Fund Academic Progress Graduate School Academic Progress Back About & Contact Current Students Graduate School Academic Progress Back Responsible Academic Conduct Training Doctoral Students Master's Thesis Students Master's Non-Thesis Students Non-Degree Students Current Student Links Thesis & Dissertation Graduate School Academic Progress Back What You Need To Know Format Defend & Submit Your Document Thesis & Dissertation Forms ETD Checklist Graduation Deadlines Graduate School Academic Progress Back Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Commencement Information Student Services Graduate School Academic Progress Back Forms & Resources Graduate Center Graduate Writing Center Career Services Professional Development Graduate School Professional Development Back Professional Development Graduate School Professional Development Back About Graduate Center Graduate Writing Center Groundwork Program TEACH Program Workshops & Training Career Services Distance Education Resources The Versatile Ph.D. Alumni & Friends Graduate School Back Alumni & Friends Graduate School Back Giving Priorities Career Services Stay Connected Contact Us Student Spotlight Graduate School Student Spotlight Back Student Appreciation Alumni Newsletter Graduate School Back Summer 2021 Alumni Survey Graduate School Back Spring 2021 Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index