Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate DegreesABA Undergrad MinorK-12 Education Undergrad MinorYouth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban Education IDT Literacy Leadership & Coaching Autism Studies School Library Information Specialist STEM Teacher Leadership Special Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs SPED-Autism Online Cert Autism Online Certificate The online Autism Certificate Program at The University of Memphis is designed to equip students with the tools necessary to successfully work with children with autism and deal with the unique challenges and rewards associated with the disorder. This four course certificate can be completed over one summer (two first term classes; two second term classes) and will present an introduction to autism spectrum disorder, discuss working in a variety of settings and with a variety of parents and professionals, identify strategies for effectively managing a classroom with students with autism, and cover a variety of evidence-based methods for providing both academic and behavioral instruction. Specific focus will be placed upon dealing with inappropriate behaviors and teaching functional communication skills. Program Admission To be admitted students should apply to the Graduate School as a Master's Degree seeking applicant. Under 'Planned Course of Study' the student should select 'Autism Studies CERT'. There is not a separate application for applying to the Autism Certificate Program. This is the only application the applicant needs to complete and submit. Program Requirements The following courses will be part of the certificate. SPED 7600 - Intro to Aut Spec Dis This course will provide an overview of autism spectrum disorders from the diagnosis and early intervention phase to working with families, therapists, and staff in both educational and community settings. The course will be grounded in research-based theory and will assist with the learner with evidence-based decision making from a practical standpoint. Legal and ethical issues will be discussed related to diagnosis, treatment selections, and working effectively with families. SPED 7601 - ASD: Class Mgmt and Design This course will introduce evidence based methods of instruction specific to teaching academic and social skills to children with autism. Additionally, this course will focus on distinguishing between evidence-based and unsupported but common strategies in treatment of autism. Common unsupported strategies will be discussed. SPED 7602 - ASD: Instruct Methods I This course will introduce methods of instruction specific to facilitating communication for students with autism. Additionally, this course will focus on assistive technologies related to the academic instruction, communication (AAC) and behavior modification of students with autism. Course content will emphasis data driven instructional practice, manual and technology-based data acquisition practices, data presentation and using data to drive instructional practice. SPED 7603 - ASD: Instruct Methods II This course will introduce common behavior management strategies shown to be effective for children with autism. These strategies will focus on both individual and group contingencies. Further, this course will discuss functional behavior assessment interpretation and treatment design, as well as data collection methods. Contact Us Graduate Office: 901-678-4861 icl-graduate-studies@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.