Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Career Closet Home Events and Programs Career Closet Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Access to Free Professional Attire The Boston College Career Closet provides all students access to new and gently used professional attire for interviews, career fairs, networking events, and the workplace. The goal of the Career Closet is to remove financial barriers that may prevent students with the highest need from looking and feeling their best during the internship and job search process. How It Works: The Boston College Career Closet is open to all Boston College students. Any items taken from the closet are 100% free of charge and yours to keep. No returns are necessary. You may take and keep up to three items in an academic year. There are two options to access the closet: visit our office in person to browse our selection or browse items online and pick them up at our office. You can find detailed steps below. Visit the Closet In Person Browse Items Online & Pick Up at Office Follow the steps below: View our Available Inventory prior to visiting to ensure we will have items that meet your needs (inventory is always changing). Visit the Career Closet at the Career Center at 38 Commonwealth Avenue. The closet is first-come, first served, no appointment is necessary. One of our staff members will accompany you to answer questions, offer advice, and assist you with checking out. While your privacy will be respected, we want to make sure you have the best shopping experience possible to meet your goals. Once you find your items, you are free to take them. Any items taken from the closet are free of charge and yours to keep. No returns are necessary. You may take and keep up to three items in an academic year. Spring 2022 Hours Days Hours Monday–Friday 11 a.m.–4 p.m. Weekends & Holidays Closed Follow the steps below: View our Available Inventory. Call the Career Center at 617-552-3644 to request items to be set aside. Items will remain set aside for 24 hours. Pickup your requested item from the front desk at the Career Center at 38 Commonwealth Avenue. Any items taken from the closet are free of charge and yours to keep. No returns are necessary. You may take and keep up to three items in an academic year. We strive to include all shapes, sizes, and orientations, however we cannot guarantee the availability of all sizes and styles to meet your preferences due to limited resources. We invite you to email or call our office if you experience difficulties with the available online inventory, as we may be able to offer an alternative to accommodate you based on available resources. Help the Career Closet Initiative If you are interested in supporting our students, we welcome business formal and business casual donations to our closet from members of the Boston College community. Quality is our top priority. All donations must be new or gently worn, in wearable condition, and cleaned. Please contact our office at career.center@bc.edu and a member of our team will respond. Any unusable items will be donated to a charitable organization or elsewhere on campus. Items we are looking for: Business professional full-suit attire Dress shirts and blouses Blazers, professional jackets, and vests Dress slacks, khakis, and skirts Dress shoes New dress socks and tights Accessories (ties, belts, scarves) Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College