Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Pamela Hovland Yale School of Art The Yale School of Art is a graduate school that confers MFAs in Graphic Design, Painting/Printmaking, Photography, and Sculpture; and offers undergraduate-level art courses to Yale College students. Our website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. It functions as a wiki—all members of the School of Art community have the ability to add new, and edit most existing content. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Quick Links Current Students > Faculty & Staff > SoA Facilities > School of Art Knowledgebase > Wiki Sitemap > School of Art in the World > Spring 2022 Courses > Opportunities > year-round open-calls for current, incoming, & outgoing Yale School of Art students Resources > an active listing of resources available to School of Art students and at Yale Sign up for School of Art newsletters > CALENDARS Community Calendar > Containing only those events open to the SoA community. 2021-22 Academic Calendar > Public Calendar > Containing those events open to the public. SoA in the World Calendar > Containing events and exhibitions featuring MFA alums. Official School of Art COVID-19 Updates: For up-to-date information from the university, visit Yale’s COVID-19 website >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody On this page Happening at SoA Green Hall Gallery School News Community Bulletin Board Calendars & Newsletters Happening at SoA (opens in a new window) Poster design by Kathryn-Kay Johnson, Graphic Design MFA ‘22, and Kyle Richardson, Graphic Design MFA '23. Brought It Home: A Continuum Opening Thursday, March 17, 6–8PM EST, open through April 21, 2022 AFAM, 211 Park Street The House Open Hours: Sunday – Thursday: 4-10PM; Friday: 4-8PM; Saturday: 1-5PM For the past 50 years, the Yale Afro-American Cultural Center has served as an axis of political, cultural, and social exchange between Black Yale students and community members. “Brought it Home: A Continuum” is a cross-disciplinary collaboration organized by Yale School of Art MFA Students. Full information on the calendar > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody On the calendar: Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Green Hall Gallery (opens in a new window) Exhibition identity by Han Gao and Miguel Gaydosh, Graphic Design MFAs ‘22. Next Day Soup 2022 MFA Thesis Exhibition in Sculpture Mar. 28 – Apr. 5, 2022 Green Hall Gallery, 1156 Chapel Street Next Day Soup, the 2022 Sculpture Graduate Thesis Show, will be open from March 28 - April 5 and features the work of Jannick Deslauriers, Riley Duncan, Pap Souleye Fall, Cristóbal Gracia, Erik Nilson and Lucas Yasunaga. Spring 2022 exhibitions are open only to the Yale community. Full information at art.yale.edu/exhibitions > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Spring 2022 exhibition schedule ⇢ Green Hall Gallery: Painting/Printmaking Group 1: Jan 31 – Feb 10, 2022 Painting/Printmaking Group 2: Feb 22 – Mar 4, 2022 Sculpture: Mar 26 – Apr 5, 2022 Undergraduate Thesis: Apr 11 – 16, 2022 Photography: Apr 26 – May 1, 2022 Graphic Design: May 11 – 23, 2022 32 Edgewood Ave.: Inaugural Yale School of Art Annual: no white walls — March 28 – April 10, 2022 Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody School News Seven Yale School of Art Alums Named 2022 Guggenheim Fellows Read here > Editor details Last edited by: Sarah Stevens-Morling Edit access: Everybody News from New Haven: February 2022 Community workshops tackle the job of a working artist Save the date for Virtual Open Studios 2022: April 9 & 10 First in-person lectures now on YouTube Alums gather in Los Angeles to celebrate Sam Messer (opens in a new window) February 2022 header image by Mike Tully, Graphic Design MFA ‘22. Read here > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) The Venice Biennale’s visual identity for the 2022 edition is based on works by Felipe Baeza. Courtesy of the Venice Biennale. Yale School of Art Alumni and Faculty to Participate in Prestigious Venice Biennale Read more > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Photo: Lisa Kereszi, Senior Critic in Photography and Director of Undergraduate Studies Yale School of Art seeks Director / Tenure-Track Faculty Member in Graphic Design Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody All Yale School of Art news >> Editor details Last edited by: Ana Lobo Edit access: Everybody Community Bulletin Board Faculty/Alumni: Post Your Art Apprenticeship/Internship Opportunities for Undergraduates The Yale Arts Apprenticeship Program is an initiative that connects Yale undergraduates, particularly those on financial aid, with professional arts practitioners of any discipline. As an option within Yale’s Summer Experience Award (SEA) funding model, the Arts Apprenticeship must fulfill the same basic requirements. Additional details, as well as those specific to the Arts Apprenticeship are included below. Yale faculty, alumni, or other arts practitioners interested in featuring positions through the program should contact Yale’s Creative Careers advisor. Which Opportunities are Eligible? Must be at least 30 hours/week, for at least 8-weeks over the summer months. Those 8-weeks do not have to be continuous if the mentoring Arts Practitioner agrees on a different schedule. The time commitment need not all be in direct contact with the Arts Practitioner. Independent projects, tasks, research, etc. can comprise much of the experience, as long as the Arts Practitioner is checking in regularly with the student to provide oversight and career-based context. The opportunity cannot be with a for-profit organization. The engagement for an Arts Apprenticeship should be directly with an individual Arts Practitioner and not with a company. The only exception to this would be if the company overseeing the apprenticeship were a registered non-profit organization. For more information: https://ocs.yale.edu/channels/arts-apprenticeship/ To post a job, contact: https://ocs.yale.edu/staff-list/#derek-i-webster Editor details Last edited by: Lisa Kereszi Edit access: Everybody MAPPING PUBLIC ART IN NEW HAVEN Hey everyone! I’ve been mapping public art in New Haven as part of my nonprofit project ArtAround and I’d love to invite you to join me, or just check it out and see what you think. New Haven map > ArtAround homepage > <3 Lindsey Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Change the homepage background >> Editor details Last edited by: Ana Lobo Edit access: Everybody Add your project, work, thoughts, etc. here! >> Editor details Last edited by: Ana Lobo Edit access: Everybody A message from Communications: All members of the SoA community are invited to edit the majority of the wiki however they like, but we ask that any non-curricular projects or initiatives that you would like to share be added to this section of the homepage. Students are also invited to reach out to Assistant Director of Communications Lindsey Mancini if they would like additional support from the School in bringing attention to their work and endeavors. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Calendars & Newsletters NEW CALENDARS BEGINNING SUMMER 2020 Public Calendar >> Containing those events open to the public. School of Art in the World >> Containing events and exhibitions hosted by, led by, or featuring members of the School of Art community. Community Calendar >> Containing those events open only to the SoA community. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Get news from the Yale School of Art in your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters >> We publish two newsletters during the academic year: News From New Haven — A public monthly newsletter about news and events happening on campus. Week at SoA — A weekly community-only email listing SoA events as well as public and university events in New Haven. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Background graphic: 2021 Happy Holidays image, created by Gabriela Rassi, Painting/Printmaking MFA ’23. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Pamela Hovland