President - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to President Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search President About Renu Khator Boards and Committees Communications Leadership and Staff UH Home President Greetings From President Khator Welcome to the University of Houston, where our students acquire the abilities and intellect that an increasingly global environment demands. Their success is our success, and nothing takes greater priority. As a Tier One public research institution and one of the country’s most vibrant and ethnically diverse universities, UH prepares the skilled workforce, accomplished leaders and innovative problem-solvers that are now essential for an enlightened and engaged community. Our University – Houston’s University – takes pride in its deep local roots and celebrates its transformation into a nationally competitive institution where energy, health care and the arts flourish and support our city’s reliance on those key enterprises. — Renu Khator Communications Update: $50 Million Gift, Accolades and Provost Search Congratulations and thank you on another successful academic year! Last week, we graduated nearly 6,000 students in multiple ceremonies thanks to you! These graduates are special because in order to graduate they had to climb over the COVID-19 mountain and deal with enormous unpredictability. Needless to say, they could not have made it to the finish line without your guiding hand. Once again, thank you for everything you do every day for our students and our university. May 20, 2022 Journey to the Top 50 Last year, we announced the University of Houston’s bold, new vision to become a Top 50 public university. We knew that achieving this goal would not be easy. No. It would challenge us to stretch to a higher level … to think in ways that we’ve never thought before – and that’s exactly why we made it our vision. March 29, 2022 Provost Search Committee Announcement I am pleased to announce that I am appointing a 16-member search committee co-chaired by Drs. Catherine Horn and Ramanan Krishnamoorti to begin our national search for the next Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs/Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost for the UH System/UH. The Search Committee will be assisted by SP&A Executive Search and will complete its work during the spring semester with the hope of filling the position by summer 2022. I thank the committee members for undertaking this very important task. February 2, 2022 Tweets Follow @uhpres President's 2021 Fall Address Previous Fall Addresses > President's 2021 Fall Address Previous Fall Addresses > Contact the Office of the President President Khator welcomes your ideas, suggestions and comments. Please share your input by using the form below. Full name Email Affiliation Student Staff Faculty Alumni Other Comments I’m not a robot Submit Mail University of Houston 4302 University Drive, Room 212 Houston, Texas 77204-2018 Phone (713) 743-8820 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies