Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Health Professions Departments Academics Research Career Paths About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Department of Dietetics and Nutrition Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Department of Dietetics and Nutrition Academics Academics Dietetic Internship Graduate Certificate Dietetics and Integrative Medicine Graduate Certificate Master of Science in Dietetics and Nutrition Online Master's Program Doctor of Clinical Nutrition Ph.D. in Medical Nutrition Science Which Degree is Right for Me? Student Resources Non-degree-seeking Students Research Research Christifano Research Laboratory Hull Body Composition Laboratory Maternal and Child Nutrition and Development Laboratory Nutrition Education and Literacy Sullivan Nutrition Assessment Laboratory Taylor Nutrition and Brain Health Lab Career Paths Career Paths What is a Dietitian? Which Degree is Right for Me? About About History Faculty Make a Gift Contact Us Our dietetics and nutrition certificate and degree programs prepare practitioners to prevent and treat illness and promote general dietary health. Explore Our Programs Which Degree is Right For Me? Meet Our Faculty "I chose KU’s dietetics and nutrition program to be pushed as a learner and a professional. The opportunity to learn at an academic medical center enticed me, and since the beginning, I have been challenged and supported by the most incredible educators and mentors. I knew that continuing my education at KU would not just expand my learning, but also prepare me with the skills and experiences for a successful career in dietetics." - Bridget Cavuoti, Dietetic Internship Graduate Certificate '20, M.S. in Dietetics and Nutrition '21 Active Research Efforts Our faculty are leaders in their fields. Their research is making an impact on areas from child development to nutrition literacy to food insecurity—and an array of areas in between. Learn more School of Health Professions Dietetics and Nutrition KU Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Mailstop 4013 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5355 • 711 TTY Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.