Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>International Student and Scholar Services>International Scholars>J-1 Scholar Guidelines J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining J-1 Status Maintaining status is the responsibility of the scholar. By signing your immigration documents, you have indicated that you agree to comply with the terms and conditions of your admission and any extensions of stay. You also certify that all information provided on your immigration documents are true and correct to the best of your knowledge. You certify that you seek to enter or remain in the United States temporarily, solely for the purpose of completing the program at the institution indicated on your immigration documents. Two Year Residency Exchange Visitors subject to the Two-Year Home Residence requirement must "reside and be physically present" in their "home" country for an aggregate of two years before being eligible for certain immigration benefits. The requirement also makes the J-1 visa holders and their J-2 dependents ineligible to change to any other visa status within the United States while they are subject to it. 12 & 24 Month Bars Limitations for J-1 Professor and Research Scholar Categories Travel Procedures All scholars traveling abroad must check the validity dates on their immigration documents to ensure all documents are valid. If you have any questions, please see an IS3 advisor. When traveling outside the U.S., J-1 scholars must have in their possession the proper documents to return to the U.S. to resume their activities. Extensions If the sponsoring department wishes to extend the J-1 scholar's appointment/affiliation with Baylor University, they must complete a new Visiting Scientist/Scholar Agreement in the Office of the Vice Provost for Research for any scholar with outside funding or receiving some Baylor funding. Program Transfer Information about transferring into or out of the Baylor Program. 212e Waiver J-1 visa holders subject to the two-year home residence requirement and do not wish to fulfill the requirement of returning to their home countries for two years, may apply for a waiver. J-2 Dependents The spouse and dependent children of the J-1 Exchange Visitor may be eligible for J-2 status to accompany the J-1 individual to the U.S. with the proper financial documentation and Baylor's insurance. Children must be under 21; no other family members are eligible. Lecture Requests and Consultations Professors and Research Scholars may give occasional lectures and short-term consultations in conjunction with their primary activities, if approved by OIP-ISSS in advance. Avoiding Frauds and Scams Be aware of phone calls and emails from individuals posing as law enforcement (such as the Waco Police Department, Department of Homeland Security, or the IRS). It is important to remember that it is very unusual for the IRS and other federal agents to reach out via phone and even email. Often, the callers/emailers will demand money or threaten imprisonment or deportation.  Signs the Call is a Fraud/Scam The individual does the following: claims to be law enforcement or a federal official (for example, the police, Department of Homeland Security, or the IRS) and demands payment or threatens imprisonment or deportation.  Federal and/or law enforcement officials are not likely to make these types of phone calls, and never demand money over the phone. Demands payment or request personal information There was no mail sent to you from an official agency Calls from unknown numbers (fraudsters can mask the numbers to appear as if they are coming from somewhere else, so it is important to call an agency or police department back directly rather than responding to the call back number) The caller may have your personal information (name, address, school, etc...), likely gathered from online sources (like social media).  Just because they know information does not mean it is a legitimate call. What Should You Do? To ensure your safety, please keep in mind the following if you receive a phone call demanding money and/or threatening a legal action: Unsolicited requests for personal or financial information are highly suspect. Government officers do not call asking for money or personal information. Treat it as suspicious! Do not provide any personal information (address, degree information, contact information, Social Security Number, Credit Card Number, birth date, etc.) or payment information over the phone or in response to a fraudulent email. Call the agency (be it the police or IRS) directly. Fraudsters can mask their number to appear as if the call is coming from the police department or another agency. Check for the agency’s actual number online or contact our office for information and call the direct line.  Do not meet anyone at any location to make a payment unless you have initiated the process and are meeting at a verified business address. You may choose to file a police report if you receive a fraudulent call or email, especially if the person calling has your personal information. Be careful about sharing any personal information online, such as through social media. The person calling may know information about you, but they have likely gathered that information through internet sources. Just because someone knows your information does not mean the call is legitimate. Financial Frauds/Scams Related to Tuition Payment E-Bill is the official University system for tuition payments.  If someone contacts you offering you an alternative payment method (such as paying through a "consultant" or "contractor" first, before having your bill paid) this is likely a fraud/scam.  Please Student Financial Services and ISSS immediately for assistance. Examples of Past Frauds/Scams Students have received calls from individuals posing as the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) and claiming a student is behind on their taxes and either needs to pay immediately or risk being deported.  This is a scam.  The IRS does not make phone calls demanding money. Students have received calls from individuals posing as DHS (ICE, CBP, or USCIS) claiming the student has violated status and risks deportation unless they pay a "fine."  This is a scam.  DHS does not make phone calls demanding money. Students have received calls appearing to be from the Police Department and demanding money.  Police agencies will not demand your money over the phone. Read ITS' guidance on how to avoid "phishing" attacks online (where hackers gather your personal data):  https://www.baylor.edu/its/news.php?action=story&story=213703 There is an Academic Misconduct Scam targeting Chinese students. The scammer sends a fake warning about an academic misconduct incident and then requests payment to cover the costs of the investigation. If you have any questions or receive a phone call like one outlined above, please do not hesitate to contact ISSS with questions or concerns. Report Fraud The U.S. Department of Justice website to report fraud: https://www.justice.gov/criminal-fraud/report-fraud International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information Getting To Waco Living in Waco Banking and Money Baylor Welcome Weekend Food Stores Getting a Cell Phone Getting a Driver's License Health Services Housing Transportation Weather in Waco Working on Campus Global Bears Week F-1 Degree-Seeking Students F-1 Student Guidelines SEVIS Registration for Fall and Spring Terms Suspension and Expulsion Termination of SEVIS Record Document Management Academic Program Completion Insufficient Funds Deferment Post Baccalaureate Study F-1 Visa Renewal Changing to F-1 Status Online Programs and Courses Health Services and Insurance Avoiding Fraud and Scams F1 Students and Summer Enrollment Student Requests Replace or Update I-20 Request Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Post Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) Pre-Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) STEM OPT Extension CAP-GAP Extension Leave of Absence Letter Requests On-Campus Employment Reduced Course Load Change of Level Reinstatement of Status Transfer In and Out Travel Authorization Dependents Extend or Shorten Your Program Social Security Number Severe Economic Hardship J-1 Exchange Students Application Process Costs Room and Board Course Selection Health Services and Insurance - Exchange Students Paying Taxes Process Forms and Documents Frequently Asked Questions International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining J-1 Status Two Year Residency 12 & 24 Month Bars Travel Procedures Extensions Program Transfer 212e Waiver J-2 Dependents Lecture Requests and Consultations Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors 2020-2021 CGE Ambassadors 2019-2020 CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give