skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Experience Nevada life. Get involved. Get connected. Find your Pack. Fun. Friendly. Beautiful. Innovative. Engaging. These are the words of our students when asked to describe campus life at the University of Nevada, Reno. What else do they say? We are diverse, welcoming, close-knit, affordable, spirited and dynamic. Are you ready to write your own story? Join the Wolf Pack family today. Tour residence halls Visit campus Find your admissions rep When you live on campus, you learn more. 10 residence halls. On-campus dining — from Starbucks to Habit Burger. A 290-acre park-like campus. Life at Nevada is designed to maximize your success by providing space for collaboration and community. If you crave a real college experience, find yourself in the thick of things by living on our gorgeous residential campus — and make great memories to last a lifetime. Residence halls Dining options Housing and meal plan rates Get in where you fit in. As a member of the Wolf Pack, you get to shape your experiences at the University. Do you have a passion for the performing arts or computing? Faith-based activities or diversity and cultural initiatives? We host more than 254 student organizations and groups on campus. Whether it is joining a fraternity or sorority, gaming club or student political group, there is something here for everyone. Student clubs & orgs Greek life Fitness and intramural sports We welcome the world with open arms. Whether you are the first in your family to attend college or you are a fifth-generation member of the Wolf Pack, an international student representing one of 63 countries on campus or a returning student with years of professional experience under your belt, we believe in opening opportunity to all students. First-Gen students International students Transfer students We put the Wolf Pack to work. Everything we do centers around student success. 460+ academic programs. 5,000+ graduating students each year. A network of 80K+ alumni. A Career Studio where you can learn your way to a dream job. That's why 93% of our grads are employed, in graduate school or in the military within a year of commencement. Find a major Career services Student employment The world is your classroom. As a top Carnegie® research university, we offer students real-world learning experiences in and out of the classroom. From cross-cultural travel experiences in Singapore with Microsoft through the Nevada Global Business Program to undergrad research opportunities with the Pack Research Experience Program, you can push learning boundaries at Nevada. Study abroad Undergraduate research Graduate research Join the Blue Crew. Champions are born on the campus of the University of Nevada, Reno. With a full range of men’s and women’s athletic programs and a community of fans across Nevada and the nation, our academically talented and hard-working student-athletes are the pride of the Pack. Join the team or join your friends to watch the Wolf Pack in action – at home, away and on national TV. Nevada Athletics Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX