Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC hosts Campus Services Showcase on May 5 The return of the annual Campus Services Showcase in Tangeman University Center’s Great Hall By Cathy Barnes Email CathyEmail Cathy April 19, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Event Information (passed) Date: May 5, 2022 11:00 AM - 1:30 PM Location: Great Hall, Tangeman University Center Ticketing: RSVP by April 28 Campus Services are the essential services that assist you and your colleagues both personally and professionally. The Campus Services Showcase provides an opportunity for faculty and staff to interact with department personnel, and campus and community vendors who deliver the quality products and services that support the University of Cincinnati community experience. Enjoy the catering showcase, office supply samples, and pose with your friends in the 360-degree photo booth. When you come, bring your ID to verify your RSVP, and bring your business cards for the vendors! Learn more about Showcase! Coming from another campus? For complimentary parking, use the CCM Garage, and pick up your complimentary exit voucher from the Parking Services table. Bring some spending money to benefit student scholarships! A silent auction* will be held to raise funds to benefit the Larry Elsasser Memorial Scholarship. Below are just several of many auction items: One of two (2) annual Uptown Parking permits One of three (3) Campus Dining Pass 36 — includes 36 dining center meal swipes and $45 for your Bearcat Card Four (4) club seat tickets in Nippert West Pavilion for the 2022 Bearcats home football game Campus Recreation Annual Membership Football signed by Luke Fickell While you're there, tell representatives from all our service units how we can better serve you. * The auction ends at 1 p.m. Auction item pickup is 1-1:30 p.m. Credit card payment only. Additional Contacts Tags Housing Campus Recreation Bookstore Campus Services Bearcat Card Conference & Events Parking Dining Printing & Duplication Related Stories New parking rates, options for University of Cincinnati employees May 18, 2022 A new parking permit rate increase will go into effect Friday, July 1, 2022 for UC employees who purchase parking permits. The rate increase, which will help the university meet its capital needs and allow for new customer technology improvements, can be found on the UC Parking Services website. UC residence tower rises in high style May 9, 2022 Known as the southern gateway to campus, where almost 3,000 students pass through on their way to U-square every day, the more than $80 million facelift on the University of Cincinnati's Calhoun residence hall now shines a light on the positive, modern features adorning the 16-story tower overlooking UC’s Uptown campus and surrounding city. Pay UC parking fines for a good cause March 29, 2022 Event: April 1, 2022 11:54 AM "Food for Fines” is going virtual April 1-29. To participate, UC parking citation holders should pay their violation fee(s) online by logging into their parking portal’s account, and choosing the “Food for Fines” option. In turn, Parking Services will make a St. George Interfaith Food Pantry donation that equals the citation’s total amount. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top