Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Parking Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Parking admitted students home Parking is not available on campus, however, students can rent spaces from local landlords. Students are asked to use Brown shuttle transportation or RIPTA, both services are free with a Brown ID. Brown Transportation Office 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 (401) 863-3157 [email protected] Parking on and near campus is tight; after 9 a.m. it can be difficult to find a spot that is closer than a five-minute walk away. Most of the convenient blocks are metered. Overtime meter tickets are $25 or more. A Providence city ordinance prohibits parking on the street between the hours of 2 a.m. and 5 a.m. Many apartments and houses also include parking spaces, but not always. If parking is not available with a rental, it is often possible to rent space nearby. Typical rents for a parking space are between $50–$150 per month. Overnight parking permits may also be purchased from Brown and the City of Providence. However, Brown overnight parking is only available to graduate students who either live on campus or in Brown owned housing through Brown. If you are interested in a Providence overnight city parking permit please register for a permit at Providence City Hall, Traffic Engineering or the Municipal Court. Because of the scarcity of parking spaces around Brown, graduate students (along with University faculty and staff) are encouraged to find alternate means of commuting to and from campus. The Office of Transportation’s website describes a number of alternatives, including free RIPTA bus service. A Brown ID is required at all times when using any of the Brown transportation services. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants