Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Applied Statistics Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Current Grants Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Research Research The Department of Mathematical Sciences was one of the first on campus to make research a priority. In 1969, a new Ph.D. program was approved. In 1970 and 1971, six new faculty members were hired including Ralph Faudree, John Haddock, James Jamison, Cecil Rousseau, and Richard Schelp. This was perhaps the first group on campus for which research became an important component and expectation of their faculty responsibilities. With the hiring of Stan Franklin as Chair in 1972, research in the Department of Mathematics (now Mathematical Sciences) received an additional boost. As part of the Department’s journey in becoming established as a research leader at the University of Memphis and in the State, another significant boost occurred in the mid-1970s, when Paul Erdős of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences first set foot on campus (1974). Erdős, who arguably was the most famous living mathematician in the world until his death in 1996, was a regular visitor (2–3 times per year) and held the position of a University of Memphis Distinguished Adjunct faculty member for almost 20 years. He helped pave the way for the Department to hire excellent faculty members in graph theory and combinatorics, including the Hardin Chair of Excellence, Béla Bollobás. It should be noted that Erdős's original interest in the Department resulted from three of our then early career faculty members (Faudree, Rousseau, Schelp) having solved a problem and written a paper that captured his attention. Currently the Department has strong research groups in Applied Statistics, Analysis, Combinatorics & Graph Theory, Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics, and Ergodic Theory. The menu links provide more information about these individual research groups. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.