Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Leadership Commitment>Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion As a leading Christian institution with a strong Baptist heritage and impact that extends throughout Texas and internationally, Baylor University seeks to “educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community.” In line with this mission, we seek to embody Christ’s teachings of love and inclusivity across boundaries of racial, ethnic, gender, socio-economic, religious, and other expressions of human difference. Because, at Baylor, “Love thy neighbor” are not just words…they are a way of life. Living out the calling and mission of Christ means living within diversity. It means embracing that diversity by practicing inclusion. We know that diversity and difference enhance and challenge us all in creative ways. We can begin to understand all types of differences in new ways when we foster a community of inclusion. That is why we do not simply offer an accommodating space of toleration. We seek to practice reconciliation. At Baylor, we celebrate our distinctive place in higher education - where research, scholarship, and faith guide the mind in understanding the complex diversity of God’s creation and prepare the whole person for service and leadership. Baylor is committed to developing critical thinkers and active citizens for full participation in our global community. We will develop the whole person within the context of God’s creation - a rich, complexity of life and diversity. We are a university with diversity. The Baylor community is fully committed to nurturing an environment for knowing, being, and doing across the campus where people of all backgrounds can come together and reason together, live together, believe together, create together, learn together, work together, and grow together. We know that we are stronger together. Together we can sharpen our intellect, broaden our worldviews, deepen our capacity for compassion, enliven our passion for learning, and expand our ability to experience and to offer the grace and peace of Christ to each other and to the world. Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!