Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan Faculty and Staff Help Desk Call: 657-278-7777 Email: ITHelpDesk@fullerton.edu Student IT Help Desk Call: 657-278-8888 Email: StudentITHelpDesk@fullerton.edu IT Disaster Recovery ***The Disaster Recovery Site Test is scheduled for May 28, 2022, 8:00AM-8:00PM In the event of a catastrophic disaster where campus services are distrupted, California State University, Fullerton's Division of Information Technology wants to ensure that critical campus applications are available. We have partnered with California State University, Sacramento to provide an alternative location to host our critical services. Once the test concludes, all critical services are expected to be up and running within 48 hours. IT Disaster recovery Site testing information The Division of Information Technology will be conducting the annual IT Disaster Recovery (DR) testing of critical services which will involve the following: Disconnecting the campus connectivity to internet and critical services to simulate a disaster interruption. Failover the following critical services to the DR site: Campus Website (home page) Campus Portal TitanOnline Single Sign-on service (Shibboleth, ADFS) Cloud-based applications will continue to function during the DR test: O365 (Email, MS Teams, OneDrive) Canvas (Learning Management System) Dropbox Zoom Changes to the following phone services (desk phone, softphone) Incoming calls to campus will go to voicemail Outbound and internal extension calls will be operational 911 calls will go to local emergency line (Fullerton Police Department) Code Blue and elevator emergency phones will go to UPD Dispatch Test the functionality of the DR site applications Restore Internet connectivity to the campus Test functionality of the campus critical services You may experience service interruptions during the testing period on or off campus. What to expect if on campus during the testing period? Access to workstations and local services like printing may be available No internet access for the duration of the test Wi-Fi connections will be down Campus phones can be used to dial to another extension or outside number, including 911 Emergency Blue Phones will still function as normal Calls from an outside number into the campus phone will go to voicemail Mobile Print will not be available The Faculty, Staff and Student IT Help Desks will be available during the site testing period. When? Saturday, May 28, 2022, 8:00AM – 8:00PM This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.