Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Emergency Medical Services Fellowship Fellowship ACGME Fellow Dr. Heather Rybasack-Smith, EMS Fellow Dr. Rybasack-Smith completed her Emergency Medicine Residency at Rhode Island Hospital. She earned her MPH in International Health from Boston University in 2009. Heather is our first EMS fellow since our program became ACGME accrediation in 2014. Dr. Erin Ciummo: Brown EMS Fellow 2018-2019Dr. Erin Ciummo completed her Emergency Medicine Residency at Lincoln Hospital, Bronx, NY, where she served as Chief Resident during her final year. Dr. Ciummo earned her medical degree at St. George's University, Grenada, West Indies. The Division of EMS offers several Fellowship experiences: A 1-year ACGME approved EMS Fellowship Rhode Island offers an ideal setting for an EMS Fellowship. With a rich variety of EMS agencies all easily accessible and access to a centralized statewide system regulated by the Depoartment of Health Center for EMS, Fellows learn the breadth of EMS, from volunteer Basic EMS through third-service paid Paramedic EMS and Critical Care Transport. The Fellowship offers comprehensive experiences in EMS Medical Direction through agreeements with numerous local EMS agencies where fellows are immersed as medical directors/EMS physicians. For example: LifePACT Critical Care Transport Service: Clinical shifts with the only 24/7/365 physician-staffed critical care team in New England. Cumberland EMS: Suburban Paramedic-level system with a physician reponse vehicle. Pascoag Fire Department: Rural system with a physician response vehicle integrated into the response of 6 agencies. Jamestown Fire Department: Rural system with an ALS response vehicle. With multiple other rotation agreements, the EMS Fellowship offers field experience in many settings relevant to EMS system operation, including: Several 911 response agencies (with a focus on fire-based EMS) and including HAZMAT, Technical Rescue, Tactical and Dive reponse training Rhode Island Disaster Medical Assistance Team/Medical Reserve Corps, including mass event, sporting events, and other major local incident and disaster coordination for the Providence area Cuttyhunk VolunteerFire & Rescue, offering an austere island EMS experience USCG Station Castle Hill, coordinating and responding to marine incidents and mass events TG Green Airport Crash Rescue Team RI Department of Health Center for EMS for statewide regulation and protocol supervision of the EMS system Area Helicopter EMS systems Clinical shifts at Rhode Island Hospital and the LifePACT Critical Care Transport service, with options to moonlight at other Lifespan Hospitals and on LifePACT Attendance at the NAESEMSO and NAEMSP annual meetings, FDNY Medical Special Operations Course, and the NAEMSP Medical Director's Course supported Generous benefit package and salary by PGY level Open to residency-trained emergency physicians qualified for ABEM/AOBEM board certification or equivalent, full licensure in Rhode Island, Brown Emergency Medicine employment, and clinical privileges at Rhode Island Hospital and other Lifespan Medicine Hospitals A combined ACGME EMS and Disaster Fellowship over 2 years, with an option for an MPH (or equivalent graduate program) at Brown. This two-year option combines the above ACGME EMS Fellowhsip with our acclaimed Disaster Medicine Fellowship directed by Dr. Selim Suner Tuition support for an MPH or equivalent degree at Brown is optional A variety of emergency fellowships, includeing EMS and Disaster, through our Brown Academies in Emergency Medicine. Typically sought by international applicants, this option allows flexible training following the relevant Fellowship curriculum culminating in a Fellowship Certificate from Brown Emergency Medicine To apply, please email the following to ">[email protected]: Personal Statement Curriculum Vitae Three letters of reference Medical School transcripts Picture NRMP Match Information RI COVID-19 EMS Resources Fellowship EMS Brochure Faculty and Staff About Education Research Rhode Island Disaster Initiative (RIDI) Pictures Print this Page Share this Page EMS / Emergency Medicine Brown University 55 Claverick St. 2nd Fl Providence, RI 02903 Phone 401-444-2739 Fax 401-444-2583 [email protected] The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift