Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Students Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Students Parking Services provides convenient and safe options to students on the Uptown, Blue Ash and Clermont campuses. There are over 11,000 parking spaces in garages and lots on the Uptown campuses, and the walkable, pedestrian-friendly campus and surrounding businesses give students a number of options for budget and convenience. Ample parking at Blue Ash and Clermont assures students with permits have a space when they need it. Student Permits When to Purchase/Register Student permits are issued by semester. There are no annual permits. Semester permits will be available for purchase/registration online on the following schedule: July 1 - Fall Semester Dec. 1 - Spring Semester (Blue Ash & Clermont, Nov. 1) April 1 - Summer Semester Uptown Uptown students must purchase their permit at the beginning of each semester. The cost of the permit parking is added to the student bill through the Office of the Bursar. The cost varies depending on the facility. Evening-only and remote parking options are also available at lower rates. Students without a permit may park in an available visitor facility at the daily rate, and pay by cash, Bearcat Card or credit card. uptown student parking Blue Ash Permits are required for all vehicles parking on the UC Blue Ash (UCBA) campus. The parking hangtag must be displayed in full view from the rearview mirror. Only UCBA students are permitted to register for a UCBA permit. UCBA students who live on the Uptown West campus and require parking must purchase a West Campus permit. blue ash student parking Mobile Pay How-to-Video Clermont Permits are required for all vehicles parking on the UC Clermont campus. The parking hangtag must be displayed in full view from the rearview mirror. Only UC Clermont students are permitted to register for a UC Clermont student parking permit. Clermont student parking Mobile Pay How-to-Video Preventing Theft from Auto / Auto Theft Thefts from auto and auto thefts are often preventable. Please see the safety tips below for more information on how you can reduce your risk. Lock your doors and close your windows. Criminals look for opportunity, and unlocked doors and open windows are easy opportunities. Do not leave your keys or key fobs in your car. It may be convenient, especially for those with a push-button ignition, but it leaves your car vulnerable to auto theft. Do not leave your valuables laying out. Take them with you, or hide them in your vehicle before you arrive at your destination. Do not leave items, such as phone chargers and change, in a visible place. Park in well-lit and well-populated areas, preferably a parking garage. Never leave your car running unattended. If you are parking your vehicle for several days, check on it periodically. Have your keys ready to use, but concealed, as you approach your car. If someone approaches your car, do not roll your window down low enough that they could reach into your car. A messy car is not a deterrent, and tinted windows will not prevent thieves from seeing your belongings. Keep a copy of your registration and insurance in safe (local) place. Back up your documents on a service such as Google Drive or Dropbox. That way, if your laptop is ever stolen, you will not lose your work. If you see any suspicious activity, contact UCPD immediately when you feel safe to do so by calling 9-1-1 or, if you cannot make a call, using the tip feature on the Bearcat Guardian app. more safety tips find out about the bearcat guardian app Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top