Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Positive Psychology Center SearchSearch Positive Psychology Center Home About Us Our Mission Our People Center Reports Learn PERMA Theory of Well-Being and PERMA Workshops Readings and Videos Measuring Well-Being of Nations Press Authentic Happiness Website Frequently Asked Questions Book: The Hope Circuit Book: Flourish Book: Learned Optimism Book: Grit Book: Character Strengths & Virtues Book: Happy Together Book: Resilience Factor Book: Coddling of the American Mind Our Research Humanities and Human Flourishing World Well Being Project Primal World Beliefs Imagination Institute Grit and Self Control Positive Health Prospective Psychology Positive Neuroscience Transcendence Research Resilience in Children Resilience in College Students Positive Psychology Research Attributional Style in Adults Attributional Style in Children Learned Helplessness Effectiveness of Treatments CAVE Technique Education Penn Master of Applied Positive Psychology Penn Certificate in Applied Positive Psychology (Online) Coursera Foundations of Positive Psychology Specialization (Online) Penn Program for Mindfulness Faculty at Universities Resilience Programs Penn Resilience Program and PERMA Workshops Resilience Skill Set Resilience Services Resilience Clients Resilience Research Contact Us Opportunities Primals Research RFP Online Positive Psychology Course Conferences Conference Archives Participate in Research Research Assistant Application Resources Pandemic Wellness Resources Therapy Speech Request Interview Request Optimism Assessment World Database of Happiness Researcher Database Course Syllabi for Teachers Questionnaires for Researchers Scholar Directory Faculty at Universities Positive Psychology Associations Penn Program for Mindfulness Conference Archives Wellness at Penn Good Links SearchSearch NEW! FOUNDATIONS OF POSITIVE PSYCHOLOGY Earn an online certificate—taught by Dr. Martin E.P. Seligman and his colleagues at the University of Pennsylvania—in Foundations of Positive Psychology. The Hope Circuit: A Psychologist's Journey from Helplessness to Optimism New Book by Dr. Martin Seligman Master of Applied Positive Psychology (MAPP) Program at the University of Pennsylvania SeeingHappy.org SeeingHappy encourages people to take and share photos of what makes them happy The World Well-Being Project Analyzing and predicting well-being through social media Authentic Happiness Website Learn about Positive Psychology Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance New Book by Dr. Angela Duckworth Happy Together: Using the Science of Positive Psychology to Build Love That Lasts New Book by Suzann Pileggi Pawelski and Dr. James O. Pawelski Participate in Research Study Help Researchers Understand the Connection between Positive Psychology and COVID-19 ‹ › Welcome The mission of the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania is to promote research, training, education, and the dissemination of Positive Psychology, resilience and grit. Positive Psychology is the scientific study of the strengths that enable individuals and communities to thrive. The field is founded on the belief that people want to lead meaningful and fulfilling lives, to cultivate what is best within themselves, and to enhance their experiences of love, work, and play. Spotlight Primals Research RFP Online Certificate in Applied Positive Psych Master of Applied Positive Psychology Online Positive Psychology Course Online Resilience Course Pandemic Wellness Resources HBR Article: A Sense of Wonder Podcast: Bolster Your Resilience Podcast: Building Resilience & Well-Being Podcast: Positive Psych in Pandemic Book: Hope Circuit Book: Happy Together Book: Grit Book: Character Strengths & Virtues Book: Resilience Factor Quick Links Authentic Happiness Website SeeingHappy.org Profile on Dr. Martin Seligman Profile on Dr. Karen Reivich Profile on Dr. James Pawelski PERMA Theory of Well-Being Learn Positive Psych Theory & Research Video Lectures by Leading Scholars Primal World Beliefs Project Penn World Well-Being Project Course Syllabi for Teachers Internatl Positive Psych Assoc. Internatl Positive Education Network World Happiness Report World Database of Happiness © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Facebook Twitter Penn WebLogin