Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Student Life »Getting Involved Student Guide to Help and Resources: One Stop Shop Home Academics Majors and Programs Academic Support See all of Academics Paying for College Financial Resources Jobs See all of Paying for College Student Life Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond See all of Student Life Health and Safety Health Safety See all of Health and Safety Technology Designated Access See all of Technology Student Life home Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu Get involved K-State offers more than 500 student-run organizations to ensure you have what you need to succeed. At K-State, we're dedicated to a customized college experience. Leadership opportunities Take time to build your leadership skills and serve your community. Make a difference one student at a time by leading one of K-State's many organizations or tutoring a fellow student. Lead your campus and beyond by participating in the Student Governing Association, helping the Union Program Council plan local events or choosing a minor in leadership studies. Volunteer experiences Opportunities to give back are endless. Try HandsOn Kansas State, which services campus in the community and abroad. Join one of the many student sustainability groups. Thinking about joining a fraternity or sorority? Greeks at K-State rack up over 60,000 hours of service and raise more than $300,000 for charity each year. Research opportunities Undergraduate students: Challenge yourselves with programs like the Developing Scholars Program and University Honors Program. For more information on undergraduate research opportunities, visit the Office of Undergraduate Research & Creative Inquiry website. Graduate students: Work with your major professor to select your program of study and dive into research in the subject that you love. Student clubs and campus activities Out-of-classroom activities are often just as important as in-class experiences. Check out K-State's student clubs and organizations, as well as opportunities to explore arts and culture on our campuses. Student activities Manhattan campus Academic and professional clubs Honorary societies International activities Multicultural organizations Religious groups Sports and recreation Salina campus Student clubs and organizations Arts and culture Beach Museum of Art Campus Galleries K-State Music, Theatre and Dance K-State Student Union McCain Performance Series Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs We are committed to promoting diversity in every sector of Kansas State University by providing vision and leadership in diversifying all university functions as well as students, faculty, staff and the curriculum. Organize and manage your organization Centralize your organization using OrgSync, a tool available for students to collaborate, promote, and manage their organization online through a system made specifically for student organizations. Find help Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 10/19/21