Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education MA in School Leadership Menu About MA in School Leadership MA Program Distinctives Curriculum Faculty Adjunct Professional Faculty Schedule by Cohort At a Glance Texas Certification Information What is School Leadership? Admissions How to Apply MA Leadership Summer Intensive - Housing MA in School Leadership Leading for Flourishing Wherever you are being called to be a school leader, take your leadership to the next level. Grounded in Christ, this hybrid program’s flexibility will catalyze your leadership for human flourishing. We will form cohorts of Christian leaders with two tracks—Texas principal certification or school leadership in other states or independent schools. We are better together and united in our calling. Request Information Submit Explore Our Program This dual-track master’s program in school leadership brings together emerging Christian leaders in public and independent schools in a hybrid model that combines the best of face-to-face and virtual learning that will allow you to complete your coursework in one year while working. Curriculum Convenience This hybrid MA program is designed for working K-12 educators. Through a combination of two short on-campus experiences and online course delivery, both synchronous and asynchronous, you will complete the MA coursework in one year, followed by a Capstone project. Criteria Faculty in the Department of Educational Leadership take a holistic approach to admission into the MA. Baylor is looking for emerging Christian leaders with at least two year of experience in public and/or independent schools. No GRE required. Cost Baylor has reduced tuition by nearly 50% for the initial cohort, with additional scholarships available for the first 24 accepted students. The MA in School Leadership can be completed in only 30 course hours, reducing per-hour costs. Grounded in Christ Diverse Schools Hybrid Classes Courses Done in 1 Year +1 semester Capstone Research Baylor University MA in School Leadership School of Education Marrs McLean Science Building One Bear Place #97312, Waco, TX 76798-7312 Jon_Eckert@baylor.edu Request Information Submit School of EducationDepartment of Educational LeadershipBaylor Center for School LeadershipGraduate School General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About MA in School Leadership MA Program Distinctives Curriculum Faculty Adjunct Professional Faculty Schedule by Cohort At a Glance Texas Certification Information What is School Leadership? Admissions How to Apply MA Leadership Summer Intensive - Housing