Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content December Commencement President's Message Events Speaker Candidates Faculty Guests Parking and Access Contact Us ☰ Academic Ceremonies December Commencement Description of Events Description of Events December Commencement Weekend is on December 16th (Rotunda Recessional) and 17th (Commencement), 2022. The information below was for 2021. The University is in the process of finalizing details for the December 2022 weekend. Please check back on October 1st for updates. Rotunda Recessional for Undergraduate Candidates Friday, December 16, 2022 Time: TBD Location: Historic Main Quadrangle and Dallas Hall Gathering: Undergraduate Candidates meet at the flagpole area in the historic Main Quadrangle in academic regalia starting at TBD One of the University's most symbolic traditions is Rotunda Passage, which includes both a processional and a recessional. The processional welcomes new undergraduate students to the University, and is held the day before classes start. During the recessional, candidates in their regalia walk through the front doors of Dallas Hall, through the Rotunda and exit out the back of Dallas Hall. This is a symbolic departure from campus and serves as a welcome to the newest members of the SMU alumni family. There is no need to RSVP for this event. Family and friends are welcome to watch the candidates walk to Dallas Hall from the flagpole in the historic Main Quadrangle. Parking is available in the Airline and Daniel Parking Centers. December Commencement Saturday, December 17, 2022 Time: TBD Location: Moody Coliseum 6024 Airline Road Dallas, TX 75205 Doors Open: TBD On Saturday morning, the All-University Commencement will assemble degree candidates from all of SMU's schools and professional programs. Commencement speakers will offer their congratulations to our newest class of graduates and President Turner will confer degrees. Candidates will cross the stage and have their names announced. At the conclusion of the ceremony, "Varsity" is played and a prayer is said for the new alumni. Guest tickets are not required for this event. Seating is general admission. If the venue reaches capacity, guests will be directed to a simulcast location. Security screening is in place. For guests who are unable to attend, the ceremony will be live streamed at smu.edu/live. December Commencement Message from President Turner Description of Events Candidate Information Candidate Tickets Guest Information Parking and Security Faculty Information Commencement Speaker Graduation Checklist Important Contacts #SMUgrad Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share