Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Prehealth Menu About Us Meet the Staff Events News Current Students Prehealth Advising Prehealth Mentors Meet the Officers Meet a Mentor REACH Service Festival Newsletters Committee Letter Process Advisory Committee Baylor Premedical/Predental Committee Evaluation Student Request for Submittal of Evaluations Faculty Evaluation Report Form Prehealth Student Organizations Alpha Epsilon Delta (AED) American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) Association of Pre-Pharmacy Students (APPS) American Student Dental Association (ASDA) Bears Medical Student Association (BMSA) Baylor Pre-Vet Medical Association (BPVMA) Baylor University Research in Science and Technology (BURST) Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Multicultural Association of Prehealth Students (MAPS) Medical Ethics Discussion Society (MEDS) Medical Service Organization (MSO) Music & Memory (M&M) Pre-Physician Assistant Society (PAS) Pre-Optometry Professional Society (POPS) Student Physical and Occupational Therapy Association (SPOTA) Prehealth Scholarships JAMP Workshops NSTM Summer Institute Baylor Pre-Med in Dublin Frequently Asked Questions Minor in Leadership in Medicine Hillis Scholars Program Bear Tracks Our Partnerships Eligibility/Requirements Apply Bear Tracks Officers Prospective Students Virtual Visit Appointments Now Available! Requirements to Enter as a Premedical or Predental Student Why Baylor University? Baylor2 Medical Track Science and Health LLC How College Differs from High School Frequently Asked Questions Programs Pre-Medicine Pre-Dentistry Pre-Occupational Therapy Pre-Optometry Pre-Pharmacy Pre-Physician Assistant Pre-Physical Therapy Pre-Veterinary Medicine Baylor Bridges Research All Research Internship Applications TDRIP - Tropical Disease Research Internship Program VA Center of Excellence Research Program (VA-CERP) Required Application Materials (BU@CERP) Information Flier (BU@CERP) Resources MCAT Resources Prehealth Reading List PHM Videos Baylor>Prehealth>Current Students>Hillis Scholars Program The William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Science Program Bill and Argye Hillis Background Dr. William Hillis (1933-2018) represents fully the majesty of scholarship, the servanthood of great teaching, and the commitment to Christ’s directives that characterize Baylor University’s highest goals as reaffirmed in the University’s Pro Futuris strategic plan. He has made a profound difference in the surrounding prehealth studies at Baylor, and his efforts have empowered countless students interested in this field to realize their full potential. Dr. Hillis’s mentorship has produced generations of conscientious young scholars -- scholars who have gone forth seeking to improve the world through intentional action in research and global service. As a consequence, Baylor has become a haven for students who desire extraordinary mentorship as they prepare for careers in the health professions and biomedical sciences. Dr. Hillis announced his retirement in the spring of 2012, after more than 30 years spent at Baylor as a teacher and administrator. At that time, officials from the College of Arts & Sciences approached him about their desire to develop a scholars program in his honor. Such a program would support and enrich undergraduates in the field that most fully represents Dr. Hillis’s academic and professional passion -- biomedical research. Why create the Hillis Scholars program? While Baylor University’s prehealth students take advantage of a superior academic program that prepares them for distinguished careers in the health sciences, intensive research experiences are not readily available to most Baylor prehealth students. We need to be able to provide these experiences to our students because they have become a vital component of the medical and educational training and professional expectations of America’s future physicians and biomedical researchers. Through specialized research experiences, high-achieving students who plan either to become medical practitioners or enter other medical professions can distinguish themselves and become highly competitive for positions in top graduate programs and medical schools. Research experience will also make Baylor students even more competitive for prestigious national and international academic awards. Dr. Hillis made certain that every student he mentored was able to maximize this aspect of their prehealth education. One case in point is the undergraduate experience of Taylor Kohn, a May 2013 Baylor prehealth graduate. During his time at Baylor, Taylor was mentored by Dr. Hillis, and was chosen as both a 2012 Goldwater Scholar and a 2013 Fulbright Scholar. His Fulbright research degree was taken at the University of Manchester, England, and Taylor soon began his medical studies at Baylor College of Medicine. Some of the inaugural group of Hillis Scholars What does the Hillis Scholars Program include? The William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Science Program, created by the Baylor College of Arts & Sciences, includes the following key features: Mentorship, scholarship and resources for select undergraduates in biomedical sciences *Undergraduate students are selected to receive scholarship support for as long as they are participating in the program -- with a maximum participation period of four years. *Student interest in biomedical research is cultivated through hands-on research opportunities and mentoring by faculty, who help guide students into excellent internships and summer research programs. *Applications are encouraged from and preference considered for those Baylor applicants who have financial need, or who are first-generation college students. *Students are integrated into a scholarly community and have opportunities to enjoy enriched mentorship from Baylor faculty, as well as interaction with guest speakers and fellow Hillis Scholars. The goal is for students to learn clinical and bench research strategies, library systems and other research techniques that will support clinical and biomedical research projects. *Hillis Scholars receive student access to medical electronic databases, searchable archives and the vast resources of the Internet. This allows them to develop cutting-edge skills in formulating and addressing important biomedical research questions. Specific research support includes a combination of annual scholarship aid and the following: *Programming funds to support travel to conferences and special off-campus events *Exposure to a broad understanding of summer research opportunities *An expert advocate to connect students to meaningful and optimal research opportunities at Baylor *Connections with constituents on and off campus who support undergraduate biomedical research *Specialized advising to ensure that students are taking appropriate curriculum for biomedical research Oversight of the Hillis Scholars Program A committee of faculty representatives from selected Baylor academic departments, as well as from the Office of Prehealth Studies and the College of Arts & Sciences Dean’s Office, oversees the development and implementation of the program. The committee works with a faculty coordinator to ensure that the goals and objectives of the program are satisfied and sustainable. The Hillis Endowed Chair for the Sciences To ensure there is an outstanding teacher/scholar intently working for the success of the program and students in it, the University simultaneously is seeking funding support for a faculty position named the William Hillis Endowed Chair for the Sciences. Dr. Hillis’ life as a scholar and humanitarian is emblematic of the values we hope to be embodied in this professorship. In addition to closely mentoring the Hillis Scholars, the Hillis chairholder will champion undergraduate research across the sciences and will direct the Office of Undergraduate Research therein, so that more opportunities and curriculum at the freshman and sophomore level will be generated, and more upper-division students will have an advocate and expert to help them connect to a wide array of research opportunities on campus and beyond. Therefore, this endowed position will ensure that the appropriate curriculum and mentoring is available to support the research and scholastic development of the students within the Hillis Scholars program. The Hillis Chair will also have wide influence beyond the Hillis Scholars program that will impact undergraduate research in the sciences at Baylor. Take the next steps To find out more about the William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Science Program, including how to apply, please contact the program director: WALTER M. “SPARKY” MATTHEWS, MD, MS, MPH, FAsMA Sparky_Matthews@baylor.edu t: (254) 710-2248 I m: (509) 944-5689 To provide financial support for the William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Science Program today, visit our secure online giving site or contact the following Baylor College of Arts & Sciences development officer: Kelli Edmond Kelli_Edmond@baylor.edu (254) 709-9872 Other Hillis Scholars resources Baylor announces inaugural class of 12 Hillis Scholars William Hillis: Man on a Mission Baylor Line Foundation interview with Bill Hillis Mark Osler's tribute to Argye Hillis (1933-2017) Baylor mourns passing of Bill Hillis (1933-2018) Current Students Prehealth Advising Prehealth Mentors Meet the Officers Meet a Mentor REACH Service Festival Newsletters Committee Letter Process Advisory Committee Baylor Premedical/Predental Committee Evaluation Student Request for Submittal of Evaluations Faculty Evaluation Report Form Prehealth Student Organizations Alpha Epsilon Delta (AED) American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) Association of Pre-Pharmacy Students (APPS) American Student Dental Association (ASDA) Bears Medical Student Association (BMSA) Baylor Pre-Vet Medical Association (BPVMA) Baylor University Research in Science and Technology (BURST) Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Multicultural Association of Prehealth Students (MAPS) Medical Ethics Discussion Society (MEDS) Medical Service Organization (MSO) Music & Memory (M&M) Pre-Physician Assistant Society (PAS) Pre-Optometry Professional Society (POPS) Student Physical and Occupational Therapy Association (SPOTA) Prehealth Scholarships JAMP Workshops NSTM Summer Institute Baylor Pre-Med in Dublin Frequently Asked Questions Minor in Leadership in Medicine Hillis Scholars Program Bear Tracks Our Partnerships Eligibility/Requirements Apply Bear Tracks Officers Prehealth Programs (254) 710-3659 Mailing Address One Bear Place #97341 Waco, TX 76798-7108 Office Location BSB B111 Prehealth@baylor.edu Prehealth MentorsWorkshopsMedical TrackYouTubeBear Tracks General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Meet the Staff Events News Current Students Prehealth Advising Prehealth Mentors Meet the Officers Meet a Mentor REACH Service Festival Newsletters Committee Letter Process Advisory Committee Student Request for Submittal of Evaluations Faculty Evaluation Report Form Prehealth Student Organizations Alpha Epsilon Delta (AED) American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) Association of Pre-Pharmacy Students (APPS) American Student Dental Association (ASDA) Bears Medical Student Association (BMSA) Baylor Pre-Vet Medical Association (BPVMA) Baylor University Research in Science and Technology (BURST) Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Multicultural Association of Prehealth Students (MAPS) Medical Ethics Discussion Society (MEDS) Medical Service Organization (MSO) Music & Memory (M&M) Pre-Physician Assistant Society (PAS) Pre-Optometry Professional Society (POPS) Student Physical and Occupational Therapy Association (SPOTA) Prehealth Scholarships JAMP Workshops NSTM Summer Institute Baylor Pre-Med in Dublin Frequently Asked Questions Minor in Leadership in Medicine Hillis Scholars Program Bear Tracks Our Partnerships Eligibility/Requirements Apply Bear Tracks Officers Prospective Students Virtual Visit Appointments Now Available! Requirements to Enter as a Premedical or Predental Student Why Baylor University? Baylor2 Medical Track Science and Health LLC How College Differs from High School Frequently Asked Questions Programs Pre-Medicine Pre-Dentistry Pre-Occupational Therapy Pre-Optometry Pre-Pharmacy Pre-Physician Assistant Pre-Physical Therapy Pre-Veterinary Medicine Baylor Bridges Research All Research Internship Applications TDRIP - Tropical Disease Research Internship Program VA Center of Excellence Research Program (VA-CERP) Required Application Materials (BU@CERP) Information Flier (BU@CERP) Resources MCAT Resources Prehealth Reading List PHM Videos