Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Services Current Projects Data Library Institute for Survey Research Directory Resources Temple University College of Liberal Arts Labs, Centers and Institutes News Events Sites Center for Sustainable Communities Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society Center for the Humanities at Temple Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Feinstein Center for American Jewish History Institute for Survey Research Public Policy Lab Temple University Brain Research & Imaging Center / Institute for Survey Research Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Institute for Survey Research One of the oldest and most prestigious academic survey research centers in the U.S. Founded in 1967, Temple University Institute for Survey Research (ISR) is one of the oldest and most prestigious academic survey research centers in the U.S., with now more than 50 years of experience conducting national, state and local surveys; statistical research; focus group research; needs assessments; and program evaluations. ISR occupies 12,000 feet of newly renovated space in the ECEC building on Cecil B. Moore Avenue that includes a 35-seat call center. We are known for the consistently high quality of our work, our high response rates, and our expertise and success in tracing longitudinal study participants. We have much experience working with communities of color, data collection in underresourced neighborhoods and transient populations. BeHeardPhilly Do you live in Philadelphia? Join BeHeardPhilly. Are you studying Philadelphians? Use BeHeardPhilly. Share your voice about the issues you are most interested in, such as current events, healthcare, art/culture initiatives and more. Earn gift cards and prizes when you take our surveys! Visit our BeHeardPhilly website! Go back to ResearchMore in Institute for Survey Research Services Current Projects Data Library Institute for Survey Research Directory Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Institute for Survey Research 865 Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19121 USA (215) 204-8355 isr@temple.edu CLA Facebook CLA Twitter CLA Instagram Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.