Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Special Collections Department Forms Policies Reading Room Policy Copyright Usage Policy Reproduction Policy Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries Special Collections Dept. Policy Reproduction Policy The University Libraries Special Collections Department offers high-quality digital surrogates of archival materials for private study and scholarly use. The department regulates the reproduction of archival materials to reduce the amount of handling an object receives to ensure its preservation. On-site digitization by researchers is not available in the Special Collections Department reading room. Archives staff will assist users who wish to obtain copies of archival materials and endeavor to provide those copies in a timely manner. Students, faculty, and staff doing business on behalf of the University of Memphis (e.g. assignments, promotional activities, departmental use) will not be assessed fees for reproductions created by the Special Collections Department. Non-university affiliated individuals and entities will be assessed fees based on organization and use type. The department will provide archival surrogates of materials that are within its collections but will not grant rights of use or evaluate copyright of archival materials that are not owned by the University of Memphis or the copyright for which has not been transferred to the University of Memphis. For more information regarding copyright, please refer to the department’s policy on copyright and usage. Image Processing Fees The fees for providing copies of photographs, documents, publications and microfilm will be based on organizational status. For organizations that carry a non-profit status or have a 501 (c) (3), there is a processing fee of $15.00 for ten (10) or fewer digital images. For-profit organizations will pay $50.00 per five (5) or fewer digital images. For more information please refer to the processing fees form for images. Audio Processing Fees Where audio recordings can be digitized in-house, there is a processing fee of $25.00 per audio recording request. Oral histories or other audio recordings that comprise more than one recording will be assessed per recording. For more information please refer to the processing fees form for audio. Video Processing Fees The fees for providing video clips from existing digitized film or video will be based on organizational status. For organizations that carry a non-profit status or have a 501 (c) (3) there is a processing fee of $75.00 per hour. For-profit organizations will pay $150.00 per hour. For more information please refer to the processing fees forms for video. All questions regarding reproduction should be directed to the department's e-mail address: specialcollections@memphis.edu. Special Collections Department University of Memphis Libraries 901-678-2210 | specialcollections@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.