Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Commencement 2022 Commencement 2022 Highlights from Public Health Research Day 2022 Highlights from Public Health Research Day 2022 Humans in Public Health: New episodes streaming now Humans in Public Health: New episodes streaming now Continue your education with Brown’s Online MPH program Continue your education with Brown’s Online MPH program Brown is at the forefront of the future of public health Brown is at the forefront of the future of public health Brown is at the forefront of the future of public health Why Brown Public Health? Learn more Learn Public Health by Doing Public Health Through teaching and research, the Brown University School of Public Health trains future public health leaders, advances knowledge on pressing health challenges, and enhances population health and well-being for all. Our students learn public health by doing public health. Why Brown Public Health? Inform your decision with a snapshot of what makes Brown's graduate programs different. Read More Research News Cutting edge scholarship that improves the health of the world's populations. Read More Service & Community Engagement Building ever stronger ties between the Brown School of Public Health and the greater Providence community. Read More Diversity & Inclusion Bringing together a diverse community to advance public health innovation and equity. Read More Coronavirus News & Resources Listen to our podcasts Request Information Learn more about graduate admissions at Brown Public Health Read More Support our work Your gift makes a difference Read More Apply! Apply to our degree programs through SOPHAS Read More Sign up for our newsletter Public Health Events Jun 1 9:00am Common Grounds 121 South Main Street Jun 1 11:00am - 12:30pm DPHB Academic Grand Rounds: Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Virtual Jun 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm SPH Teaching Brown Bag Virtual Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Zoom View Full Calendar News Laura Keohane Ph.D. ’16 Named 2022 Alumni Impact Awardee May 23, 2022 Read More At the Brown School of Public Health: Dynamic Change to Expand Impact May 12, 2022 Read More Congratulations to the Winners of the 2022 Dean’s Staff Awards May 4, 2022 Read More See all News Continuum Magazine: Winter 2022 Learn how Brown faculty are applying harm reduction approaches to address public health crises like the epidemics of overdose and gun violence. And how innovative dementia research at Brown is impacting care. Read the Winter 2022 issue for these stories along with student and alumni features, news, and more! Read More Top 5 School of Public Health for NIH Funding Low Student-to-Faculty Ratio Top 10% US News & World Report 2022 ranking Social Media Directory School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top