Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office for Institutional Diversity Menu Main Nav Latinos/as @ Boston College Join Back Back Close Mission History Directory Get Involved Join Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Please join us as we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month! Join us at our event on September 28 from 12 PM -1 PM. Edgardo Miranda-Rodriguez is a graphic novelist most notably recognized as the writer and creator of the critically acclaimed and bestselling superhero series La Borinqueña that is part of the permanent collection at the Smithsonian Museums! Here is the link for registration BC Events La Borinqueña Latino/as at Boston College is an association of faculty, administrators and staff committed to promoting the interests and advocating for the advancement of the Latino community of Boston College. We honor and celebrate the diversity of our culture(s) and actively contribute to the enrichment of the University. L@BC Meeting Calendar Academic Year 2021-2022 L@BC holds meetings once a month, from 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM. If you have an interest in learning about our organization, we encourage you to attend our meetings or contact Ximena Soto at ximena.soto@bc.edu or latbc@bc.edu Please see below our meeting schedule. We hope to see you there! Date Location Tuesday, November 9 Online Tuesday, December 14 Online Tuesday, January 11 Online Tuesday, February 8 TBD Tuesday, March 8 TBD Monday, April 12 TBD May TBD (Annual Retreat) RSVP to our meetings via email at latbc@bc.edu Join Us! All are welcome Everyone in the Boston College community is welcome to join our organization. If you would like to become a member please email us. latbc@bc.edu Follow us on Facebook Back To Top Back To Top Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street, Room 211 Brighton Campus 617-552-2323 About Thrive @ BC Programs Policies & Compliance Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College