Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of ‘22 (Photo/Trevor Cokley) By Ray Bowden, U.S. Air Force Academy Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. – Nearly 1,000 Air Force and Space Force officers graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy in a ceremony at Falcon Stadium May 25. In all, 863 class of ’22 cadets were commissioned into the Air Force and 94 were commissioned into the Space Force as second lieutenants. Sixteen international cadets graduated with their U.S. classmates. The Breakdown This information is based on data from the Academy’s operations and analysis office released May 23. — 1,434 men and women received appointments into the Class of 2022 and 1,182 were inducted — 75% of the graduating class are men and 25% are women — 33.3% are racial and ethnic minorities — 44.3% are potentially qualified to become pilots — The average high school GPA for the class of 2022 was 3.78; the average SAT score was 664 evidence based reading, writing and 694 math; the average ACT score was 31.3 English, 31.3 reading, 30.0 math and 30.6 science reasoning Scheduled to Graduate Scheduled to graduate May 25 were 973 cadets: 713 men and 260 women and 16 international cadets from Cameroon, Gambia, Georgia, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mongolia, Niger, Romania, Rwanda, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. The Class of 2022 includes 326 minorities: 99 Hispanics, 91 African Americans, 108 Asians, 10 Native Americans and 18 Pacific Islanders with some cadets listed as minorities counted in more than one racial category. — 673 cadets in the Class of 2022 are not minorities — 144 Class of 2022 graduates attended the U.S Air Force Academy Preparatory School and 51 graduates were enlisted Airmen. — The attrition rate for the graduating class was 15.5% — 54 cadets have one parent who graduated from the Academy and 15 cadets have two parents who graduated. Forty one cadets are the second child in their family to graduate, and four are the third child in their family to graduate. The Class of 2022 contains one set of twins. Service Commitment Four-hundred-seventeen graduates are scheduled to attend pilot training; 11 are scheduled for combat systems operator training; nine are scheduled for air battle manager training; and 24 are scheduled to be remotely piloted aircraft officers. In all, 461 will enter rated career fields and 382 nonrated career fields. Graduates incur a five-year service commitment and an additional concurrent service commitment, depending on the training, schooling or scholarships they receive. Graduates attending pilot training have an active duty service commitment of 10 years after receiving their pilot’s wings. Combat systems operators, remotely piloted aircraft sensor operators and airborne battle managers incur a six-year commitment. Graduates completing airborne battle manager training incur two concurrent service commitments, a five-year service academy graduate commitment and a six-year airborne battle manager commitment. With the Class of 2022, 53,198 men and women have commissioned into the Air Force and 293 men and women have commissioned into Space Force. Older 'Two services, one Academy': AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make innovation history Share Newer ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s Class of 2022 General Audience Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international... Continue Reading this article General Audience ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Space The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of... Continue Reading this article Graduates, Space ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Parents, Prep School 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school Continue Reading this article Research, Space Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike Continue Reading this article General Audience, Graduates, Parents, Research Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for... Continue Reading this article General Audience Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM Continue Reading this article ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.