Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Knights Do That Podcast Produced by UCF, the Knights Do That podcast features students, faculty, staff and alumni who continue to push the needle forward as innovators, entrepreneurs and creators making an impact on the world. The podcast debuted in May 2021 and new episodes post every other Monday. Audiences can keep up with the Knights Do That podcast through UCF’s Instagram, Facebook and Twitter accounts and by joining the conversation on all social media platforms using #KnightsDoThat. If you are a student, graduate, or faculty or staff member who is doing something cool, please let us know what you’re up to by submitting details to Suggest a Story. Subscribe Episodes Adrian R’Mante ’96: Advice for Young Actors May 16, 2022 Hollywood actor Adrian R’Mante ’96 discusses his journey from UCF to landing his hit role as Esteban Julio Ricardo Montoya de la Rosa Ramírez on The Suite Life of Zack and Cody. Desiree Diaz: The Future of Nursing May 2, 2022 Desiree Diaz, associate professor and undergraduate simulation coordinator in the UCF College of Nursing, shares how UCF is leading the charge in virtual reality education, how teaching students about cultural congruence can remove preconceived notions in patients, and how simulation technology is paving the way for the future of nursing. Michael Chiang ’20M: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect April 18, 2022 Michael Chiang ’20MS, who is specializing in emergency medicine and is the first UCF student to graduate with a dual-degree M.D. and master’s in hospitality,shares what drew him into these fields, how he plans to use both degrees in the future and the adversity he’s faced along the way. Here is an inspiring episode of how education and life experiences can guide you. Chung Park: How Music Enhances Your Life April 4, 2022 Chung Park, director of UCF’s Symphony and Chamber Orchestras and a professor in the College of Arts and Humanities, shares his breadth of knowledge and deep passion for the arts, music and happiness — yes happiness. He also discusses his gift and passion for teaching, shares insight on UCF Celebrates the Arts and how you can learn to purposefully integrate music into your life. Mindy Shoss: Cultivating Positive Workplace Well-being March 21, 2022 Associate Professor of Psychology Mindy Shoss shares her research and expertise when it comes to workplace well-being and advice on how we can improve our communication in the workplace, what companies can do to have the most satisfied employees and common misconceptions about burnout. Terry Mohajir:The Role of Athletics in Higher Ed March 7, 2022 UCF Athletics Director Terry Mohajir shares how college athletics plays a role in higher education.From student experiences to the roles that faculty, staff, alumni and fans play in creating an engaged culture, he speaks about how all of these key stakeholders push UCF towards excellence. In this episode, you’ll learn what drives Mohajir’s passion for UCF and athletics, his journey to becoming an athletics director and his hopes for the future of UCF. Brandon Nightingale ’16 ’19MA: The Importance of Preserving Black History Feb. 21, 2022 Brandon Nightingale ’16 ’19MA, a UCF 30 Under 30 alumni and the archivist at Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach, Florida shares how his journey starting at UCF as an electrical engineering major has led him to now working to preserve Black history, and how slowing down to study the past is the best way to look forward. Sejal Barden:Relationship Advice from an Expert Feb. 7, 2022 Sejal Barden, associate professor of counselor education and executive director of UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute, shares her expertise when it comes to couples and individualistic relationships, and her insights and advice on small steps we can all take to improve those relationships most important to us. Gerald Hector: Leadership Through Empowerment Jan. 24, 2022 Gerald Hector, UCF’s senior vice president for Administration and Finance, shares his story of personal triumphs, his journey through higher education, how he empowers and motivates people around him through leadership, and how we can all find where our values and passions intersect to live a fulfilled life. Michele Gill: The Psychology of Creating Change Jan. 10, 2022 Michele Gill, a professor of educational psychology in the College of Community Innovation and Education, shares her research in conceptual change and implicit beliefs, which play a role in what we value and how we create change in what we believe. In this episode, Gill shares her insights on how we can create new habits and resolutions, how we can stick to these resolutions and her expertise in educational psychology. Albert Manero ’12 ’14MS ’16PhD: Engineering Hope Through 3D-printed Robotics Dec. 13, 2021 Albert Manero ’12 ’14MS ’16PhD is a three-time UCF graduate and the founder and president of Limbitless Solutions, a nonprofit organization that serves kids with limb differences in an affordable and innovative way. Manero shares what ignited his passion to start Limbitless, where it’s at now and how his team continues to push the needle forward to create an impact on this world. Phil Metzger ’00MS’05PhD: The Future of Space Exploration Nov. 29, 2021 Phil Metzger ’00MS’05PhD, a planetary scientist with nearly 30 years of experience at NASA, shares stories from working on the space shuttle missions, his controversial research on whether Pluto is a planet, and what the future of space exploration will look like. Elena Cyrus: Expertise on Infectious Diseases and Vaccines Nov. 15, 2021 Elena Cyrus, an infectious disease epidemiologist at UCF’s College of Medicine, discusses her expertise and research in infectious diseases, public health and COVID-19 vaccines. Deborah Beidel: PTSD Treatment That Works for Veterans, First Responders Nov. 1, 2021 Deborah Beidel serves as the executive director of UCF RESTORES. The Pegasus Professor and Trustee Chair of Clinical Psychology and Medical Education shares her experience and expertise in PTSD treatment, innovative treatments happening at UCF RESTORES, and how we can better acknowledge and support veterans. Martha Brenckle: Fostering Inclusion through Arts and LGBTQ+ History Oct. 18, 2021 Martha Brenckle, a writing and rhetoric professor in the College of Arts and Humanities. Brenckle shares her expertise and love for writing, her involvement within the Orlando arts community, her role as treasurer for the LGBTQ+ History Museum of Central Florida and more. Annette Khaled: Expertise from a Breast Cancer Researcher Oct. 4, 2021 Annette Khaled, a UCF College of Medicine professor and the head of the Division of Cancer Research at UCF, joins Knights Do That host Alex Cumming to discuss her expertise in breast cancer research — specifically in breast cancer metastases. Khaled shares her personal experiences that drive the passion for her work, the collaborative culture of teamwork, optimism, and humanity at UCF, and some of the biggest mysteries of breast cancer that we’re still trying to solve. Cyndia Muñiz ’13EdD: Opening Doors for the Latino Community Sept. 20, 2021 Cyndia Muñiz ’13EdD, director of HSI culture and partnerships at UCF, shares how her work strengthens the sense of belonging for the Latino community, how UCF continues to uphold its HSI designation serving students, faculty and staff, and how her education as a first-generation student herself plays a role in her work. Reina Castellanos ’16MFA: Using Culture to Create Sept. 6, 2021 A Venezuelan artist featured in Target’s Latino Heritage Month line this year, Reina Castellanos ’16MFA shares how her culture and experiences as an immigrant influence her work, the joys and struggles of being an artist and the importance of staying authentic in your work. Marc Daniels: An Insider Scoop on UCF Athletics Aug. 23, 2021 One of the area’s most recognized and respected media personalities, UCF Athletics Director of Broadcasting Marc Daniels reminisces on his experiences and favorite memories of the last three decades, gives an insider look into some coaches and players, shares his expertise as a broadcaster and previews this season of UCF Football under new head coach Gus Malzahn. Kate Mansfield: Turtle Research and Marine Biology Aug. 9, 2021 Kate Mansfield is a Davis-Schein Endowed Professor of Conservation Biology, lab director for the UCF Marine Turtle Research Group and graduate coordinator for UCF’s Department of Biology in the College of Sciences. She discusses why sea turtles are such important and interesting animals to study, how she got into this field, some of the coolest things that she’s discovered over the years, and what hands-on experiences for her students look like. Daniel West: What Computer Programming Has Taught Me July 26, 2021 Daniel West is a third year computer science student in the Burnett Honors College and is a member of the UCF programming team, along with teammates Sharon Barak and Seba Villalobos, which is well known around the world for consistently placing in the North America championships and world finals. This August UCF will be hosting the North America Championship of the 2021 International Collegiate Programming Contest, the oldest and most prestigious collegiate programming competition. In this episode, we talk about how West originally got into programming, what it means to have the championship hosted at UCF and what makes a good team able to compete at this national stage. ﻿ ﻿ Darin Edwards ’97 ’10MS ’11PhD: Developing the Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine July 12, 2021 Darin Edwards is a UCF alum and the director of immunology at Moderna. Darin earned his bachelor’s degree in biology, master’s degree in molecular biology and doctorate in biomedical sciences with a focus on neuroscience at UCF in 2011 and has an impressive resume from computer programming to, of course, most recently leading the research for the COVID-19 vaccine and a deep love for all things UCF – especially Knights football. Hear what it was like working on the COVID-19 vaccine, the moment it was released and what he looks forward to most as we approach a return to pre-pandemic work and life. ﻿ ﻿ S. Kent Butler: How to be a Better Listener and Mentor June 28, 2021 S. Kent Butler is a professor of counselor education in the College of Community Innovation and Education and a champion for diversity, equity and inclusion at UCF. He’s conducted extensive research into mentoring among diverse groups and led successful initiatives for African-American male students. Kent joins Knights Do That Host Alex Cumming to discuss how we can all be better listeners, the dynamics of mentorship and how we can cultivate a space where everyone feels like they belong. Claire Connolly Knox: Crisis and Emergency Management in our Environment June 14, 2021 Associate Professor Claire Connolly Knox, who is an expert in crisis and emergency management, discusses hurricane season, impact of coastal wetlands and learning from crises, such as Marjory Stoneman Douglas, and Pulse Nightclub. Alexander Cartwright: Servant Leadership in Higher Education May 31, 2021 As the podcast’s first guest, President Alexander Cartwright talks with host Alex Cumming about his experience as a first-generation college student, what it was like becoming a university president during a pandemic, how higher education has impacted his life, and how he believes servant leadership is key to moving the university forward. Introducing: Knights Do That May 17, 2021 What is it that Knights do? They discover. They create. They inspire. They build. They achieve. That’s what Knights do. And that’s who has inspired this podcast – the innovators, entrepreneurs and creators. Hosted By Alex Cumming Alex Cumming is an Orlando native, the son of a three-time UCF alumna and a second-year BFA theatre acting student. Before enrolling at UCF, he spent a year as a full-time actor in Chicago and took classes with renowned improvisation comedy group, The Second City. In addition to his studies, he performs with Playback UCF and also writes for a student-run fashion and lifestyle publication, Strike Magazine UCF. (Photo by Rhiana Raymundo ’19) University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida