Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close FAQ Home BC Police Department About FAQ About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Frequently Asked Questions How do I report a crime or emergency? There are several ways in which victims or witnesses can report crimes. For crimes in progress or crimes that just occurred, or for an emergency, the best way is to dial 911 or (617-552-4444). Dialing 911, will connect you to the Massachusetts State Police, while dialing (617)-552-4444 (or 2-4444 from a campus phone) will connect you directly to the University Police dispatcher. You may also use the Emergency Phones located at various locations throughout the Boston College Campus. Pushing the emergency button will connect you directly to a University Police dispatcher. People may also report a crime in person at Boston College Police Headquarters located on the ground level of Maloney Hall (next to Hillside Bookstore). Where do the Boston College Police get their police powers from? Boston College Police derive their legal authority from Chapter 22C, Section 63, of the Massachusetts General Laws. This statute gives them the same policing authority, including the power of arrest, as Newton, Boston, and the State Police. It is how we exercise that authority, within a Jesuit Catholic setting, that makes the difference. In order to better assist our off campus population, each officer is also sworn in as Deputy Sheriff's within Norfolk, Suffolk and Middlesex Counties, which border our campuses. While you will not typically see the BC Police patrolling city streets, it does enable them to legally respond beyond the strict confines of the campus, as needed. The Boston College Police wear several hats, while assisting the community and/or enforcing its rules and regulations as well as any local, state, or federal law that is applicable Can I get a copy of a police report? University Police cannot release police reports, with the exception of traffic crash reports. If you were involved in a traffic crash you may receive a copy of the official police report. You may only make the request in person at police headquarters. How can I go about obtaining a personal Criminal Records Check? Univeristy Police cannor release these types or records. Requests for information related to your own criminal record can be found at the Department of Criminal Justice Information Services (DCJIS) website (link> http://www.mass.gov/eopss/crime-prev-personal-sfty/bkgd-check/cori/) and by submitting the Adult Criminal Record Request Form to DCJIS. Your request can also be completed by calling the DCJIS at 617-660-4600 (for TTY, call 617-660-4606) and ask them to mail the form to you. What types of security are in place for the residence halls? The residence halls on campus have a card access system in operation 24 hours a day and seven days a week. A student’s Eagle ID will only access their appropriate doors. In addition, police officers patrol the commons and the exterior of the residence halls. Officers check for propped doors and monitor activities around the residence halls. BC Police also ask students to do their part in keeping the residence halls safe. Students can do this by not allowing persons to enter a residence hall unless they live in the building or are being escorted by a resident of the building and by keeping their room door locked. What are the parking regulations on campus? All parking lots on campus are controlled and restricted. Signs are posted at the entrance to every parking lot advising you of the appropriate parking permit required for the parking lot and what hours and days the parking lot is restricted. You can find out more information at the Boston College Parking & Transportation Services web site. What resources are available to victims of crime? BC Police is not only committed to serving the Community, but more importantly we are committed to serving and supporting victims of crimes. There are many services available to victims of crime both on and off campus. On campus, there are many support groups and assistance programs available through University Health Services, as well as the Women's Resource Center and University Counseling Services. Are there any rules or regulations about weapons on University grounds? Yes. Possessing or carrying a firearm, loaded or unloaded, in any building or on the grounds of Boston College without the authorization of the Chief of the Boston College Police is prohibited. All implements characterized by Massachusetts state law as "Dangerous Weapons" (e.g., switchblade knives) are also prohibited. The possession of Mace, pepper spray, or their derivatives on the Boston College campus is permissible only if the student has a Firearms Identification Card (FID) and receives written permission from the Boston College Police. Improper use of laser beam instruments is also prohibited. Possession without appropriate authorization and/or misuse of the weapons will result in serious disciplinary action by the University. What types of fingerprinting services does the BC Police offer? The Boston College Police Department offers free fingerprinting service to all current Boston College faculty, staff and students. Please follow this link to be directed to the Services page. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College