UW Home Home Stories Menu Home Stories Make your gift today Give Pause BREAKING BARRIERS Professor Cecilia Aragon vanquished fear to become the first Latina pilot on the U.S. Aerobatic Team — and the first Latina full professor in the UW College of Engineering. Launch video Play video: How one UW professor defeated fear to become an aerobatics champ× How does someone afraid of taking an elevator end up strapped upside down in a tiny plane thousands of feet above the ground? For UW Professor Cecilia Aragon, that transformation began when she said yes to a friend who took her flying — and led to her becoming the first Latina pilot on the U.S. Unlimited Aerobatic Team, “the Olympics of aviation.” This short film explores her life-changing journey from being a novice pilot with an intense fear of heights to becoming an aerobatics champion flying complicated loops, rolls and spins. Emboldened by her success in the sky, Aragon completed her doctorate and embarked on a teaching career, eventually becoming the first Latina full professor in the UW College of Engineering. Aragon, a faculty member in the Department of Human Centered Design & Engineering, chronicled her experiences in her 2020 memoir, “Flying Free.” M0RE STORIES NATIVE KNOWLEDGE ISchool assistant professor Miranda Belarde-Lewis, ’07, ’11, ’13, combines research, teaching and curating to help reclaim how Native art is presented — and bring Native voices to the forefront. OPENING UP A NEW WORLD ‘Hip Hop M.D.’ Maynard Okereke, ’06, fuses science and hip-hop to increase access to STEM for kids of color. Discoveries in dino country On a pivotal excavation in Montana, UW paleontologists, students and volunteers uncovered clues that shine light on the age of the dinosaurs. Browse stories Originally published May 2022 What you care about can change the world When you support the University of Washington Fund, you can help students, faculty and staff across all three campuses discover new passions and soar to new heights. Give Now Give Now Connect with us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn UW Current Newsletter Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA