Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Criminal Justice MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Criminal Justice MA Apply Request More Info Criminal Justice MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Criminal Justice Expand your knowledge and build upon your academic foundation in the criminal justice system with the Master of Arts in Criminal Justice in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Temple’s Criminal Justice MA is ideal for students who already work in the criminal justice field, for those who seek to sharpen critical skills in a criminal justice-related field and for those who seek an entry point for a competitive job in the area of criminal justice. Students entering the program have experience in a variety of areas related to criminal justice, including counseling, geography, political science, psychology social work and sociology. Other students pursue their master’s degree with an interest in continuing their education and research in a doctoral program. Department of Criminal Justice students and faculty are highly involved in local and national research activities. Learn more about the Department of Criminal Justice and their faculty. The Criminal Justice MA program allows students to take electives and pursue research in several different areas, based on their personal and professional interests. Examples of these areas of interest include corrections, crime and the physical/social environment, criminal justice reform and policymaking, criminal law, cybercrime, crime mapping, drug policy/substance use and misuse law enforcement, juvenile justice, gun violence and community crime reduction, prisoner reentry, public health and criminal justice, socialization and deviant behavior, and terrorism and violent extremism. The interdisciplinary 30-credit master’s program is structured around a set of core requirements that provide a strong grounding in decision-making and operational aspects of the criminal justice system, and a legal, methodological, policy and theoretical foundation for understanding crime and society. Students have three years to satisfy their program requirements on a part- or full-time basis. Classes are completed at Temple’s Main Campus. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Criminal Justice MA students choose a thesis or non-thesis track, which have different requirements. Students choose a track based on their professional goals. For students interested in pursuing further graduate education, the thesis track is an ideal opportunity to develop research skills and form expertise in a specific area of interest. For students interested in refining skill sets to enter or return to the workforce, the non-thesis option has no culminating requirements. All students, regardless of which track they select, will take the following courses. Decision-Making in Criminal Justice Research Methods in Criminal Justice Theories of Crime and Deviance Learn more about course requirements for the Criminal Justice MA program. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Criminal Justice PhD Decision Neuroscience PhD Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Psychology PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Criminal Justice MA, contact the following staff member. Jenise Ly is the graduate coordinator in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-9028 Email: jenise.ly@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Criminal Justice Department. Cathy Rosen is the chair of the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1089 Email: crosen@temple.edu Jeffrey Ward is the graduate chair in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-5267 Email: jeffrey.ward@temple.edu Joseph DelMastro is the program administrator in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1376 Email: joseph.delmastro@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Criminal Justice MA students. The Criminal Justice Graduate Student Association (CJGSA) represents all graduate students in Temple's Department of Criminal Justice, which includes PhD students, master’s students and 4+1 students. The association promotes communication between faculty and graduate students and encourages participation in a variety of academic and professional opportunities. Additionally, the CJGSA invites critical thinkers to share their justice-related ideas and experiences with Temple University and Philadelphia each spring. The Temple University Criminal Justice Society provides a platform for students to explore career opportunities within the criminal justice field through group trips, informational sessions, guest speakers, career fairs and more. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Students in the Criminal Justice MA program have the unique opportunity to complete courses and pursue research opportunities at Temple’s Rome campus. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CJ-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Criminal Justice MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info