Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Essential Resources » Transportation Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Transportation Find easy ways around campus, Cincinnati and the US. The University of Cincinnati's individual campuses—the main West campus, East (Medical) campus, Blue Ash campus in northern Cincinnati, and Clermont County campus (regional campus 25 miles east of Cincinnati)—are each self-contained within the area of a few blocks. Most of them are situated in city or suburban neighborhoods. Depending on your personal situation and where you live, you may or may not need public transportation daily, and you may or may not want to have a car. UC International and student groups often hold popular shopping trips (to IKEA, outlet malls and international markets) and other group trips that will help you get around, get what you need and get to know each other. Here are some other ways to reach the places you will go most often. Getting to campus Your pre-arrival checklist from UC International will include information about signing up for shuttle service from the Greater Cincinnati Airport (CVG) across the river in northern Kentucky directly to the University of Cincinnati. Getting around campus On-campus transport options include shuttle services and bike rentals; scooter rentals are currently suspended. UC Shuttle right arrow down arrow The UC shuttle loops the West and East campuses and surrounding neighborhoods and connects to the 1819 Hub and the Blue Ash Campus. Learn more about the shuttle View the live shuttle map NightRide right arrow down arrow The NightRide service provides safe evening transportation on demand within a mile of campus for UC students, staff, faculty and one guest. You only need your Bearcat card to ride. Service hours are 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday through Wednesday and 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. Thursday through Saturday. (Waits may be longer after midnight.) Visit UC Public Safety's site to learn how to request a ride by phone, app, or web form. Bikes & scooters right arrow down arrow Bikes A free bike-share program is available through the UC Bike Kitchen, created by the Office of Sustainability. The City of Cincinnati's Red Bike Share program also has rental stations on UC's campus. Scooters The Lime and Bird scooter rental programs at UC are currently suspended for lack of demand. Getting around the city Cincinnati has no subway system (ask a local the story), but there are two bus systems and a small streetcar system downtown. Cincinnati & Northern Kentucky buses right arrow down arrow METRO Bus Greater Cincinnati’s public transportation system, the Metro, offers bus service in Hamilton County and portions of Clermont County every day of the year. Fares are subject to change. For complete route, schedule and fare information, check the Metro website, or call the Metro Center at 513-621-4455, weekdays 6:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and weekends 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Through UC*Metro, you can get a bus pass TANK Tank (Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky) is the public transportation system across the Ohio River. Some of its routes connect to METRO. Cincinnati streetcar right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's new electric streetcar system is a fun way to see the sights or bar- and restaurant hop in the downtown and Over-the-Rhine neighborhoods of the city. Taxis and ride share services right arrow down arrow Taxis There are many taxicab companies in Cincinnati. The Yellow Cab Company (513-241-2100) is one of the oldest, but there are many other taxicab companies to choose from. You must call to be picked up unless you are near a taxi stand downtown; taxis do not cruise around town like in many other big cities. Ride share services Uber and Lyft are the most familiar transportation services whose mobile phone apps connect you with a ride. Payment is automatic through the app, and fares are typically cheaper than a taxi. Driving Typically (and stereotypically) Americans rely on cars to get around most parts of the country, including Cincinnati. But owning a car is a big added expense and may not be convenient on campus if the cheapest parking garage isn't near your dorm or college buildings. If you need a car, there are things you need to know. Driver's license (Ohio) right arrow down arrow If you have a valid International Drivers License or a valid drivers license from another U.S. state, you may drive a car in Ohio for up to one year from the date when you arrived in the U.S. However, if you buy a car and register it in your name and you do not have a valid driver’s license from Ohio, you must have an Ohio drivers license. For you to get an Ohio driver's license, your I-20 or DS-2019 must have been issued for more than one year. Get a copy of the Digest of Ohio Motor Vehicle Laws from any Bureau of Motor Vehicles or from the UC International office. Visit an Ohio Deputy Registrar Office to get a temporary permit application packet. You must bring identification with you and will have to pay a fee. Go to the nearest drivers license exam station to take a vision test and a written test on Ohio motor vehicle laws and traffic signs. After you pass the written test, you will receive a temporary instruction permit, which authorizes you to practice for your road test only when you have a licensed driver with you in the front seat of the car. When you have practiced driving, contact the nearest exam station for a road test. (Note: Some stations are closed for testing because of COVID-19.) In order to be issued a license, you must present: Valid passport U.S. visa I-94 card One of the following: An I-20, or a DS-2019 along with original letter from a recognized Ohio business or institution stating that you are affiliated with (employed by or attending) or a dependent of the institution or business Note: UC Students and scholars should submit the appropriate Driver's License Letter Request Form in iBearcatsGlobal Proof that you will reside or have resided in Ohio for 12 months (usually the above documents) Your permanent Social Security number if you were assigned one (you don't need one if not) More detailed information about getting an Ohio driver’s license and license plates can be found in the Digest of Ohio Motor Vehicle Laws. You must carry your license with you when you drive. Driver's license / ID card (Kentucky) right arrow down arrow If you live in Kentucky, the rules to obtain a driver's license are a little different than for those who live in Ohio. For full details, refer to the Kentucky DMV website. If you currently have a foreign driver’s license as listed on the website, you can drive for up to one year before you need a Kentucky driver's license. If you are an F-1 student who would like a Kentucky Driver’s license, you need to bring the following documents to a regional office: Visa, Passport with Homeland Security stamp and/or I-94 (bring everything) Social Security Card or Ineligibility Letter If you do not have an SSN, UC International can provide the ineligibility letter for you Current I-20 INS School Compliance Form, dated within the past 30 days UC International can provide this for you Proof of address within the last year Bring postmarked envelopes from reliable institutions, such as utility companies Currently, the closest office is in Burlington, Kentucky. You can schedule an appointment online. According to the Kentucky DMV website, you will possibly perform a driving test and written exam along with a vision test. Please review the website for the most up-to-date information. ID Card If you do not plan to drive in the United States, you may want to apply for a state ID card. Having a state issued ID card is more convenient than carrying your passport and it’s easier to replace if lost. Applying for the ID card requires the same documentation as the driver's license, but you won’t need to perform any of the testing for driving. See the Kentucky DMV website for more details. Required insurance right arrow down arrow When you buy and register a car, you must also insure it to drive it. You will not be able to purchase license plates for your car unless you can show proof of insurance. You must carry proof of insurance with you when you drive, whether you own or rent/lease the car. It is illegal to drive without insurance. Insurance is available through agents or online. Campus parking right arrow down arrow Limited on-street parking is available near campus. Parking in campus garages is available hourly/daily or by month or semester for faculty, staff and students. Visit Parking Services for maps, permit information and more. Car rental / car sharing right arrow down arrow The Zipcar car-sharing service is available for UC students with valid driver's licenses, who can book cars at an hourly rate through an annual membership plan that includes insurance. Long-distance travel The classic American roadtrip is the way to see the US if you have the time and a car. Train service is limited outside major urban corridors. Buses right arrow down arrow The Greyhound bus station is located at 1005 Gilbert Avenue, downtown Cincinnati. Call 1-800-231-2222 (out of town) or 352-6012 (local) for schedule and fare information. Bus fares are reasonable and riding the bus is a great way to see the United States. The Megabus has a bus stop on campus at West University Avenue and Commons Way. Megabus tickets are availble to and from several U.S. cities. Trains right arrow down arrow The Amtrak train station is located at 1301 Western Avenue, Queensgate. Routes are limited. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top