Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Toreador Media Menu Search TTU Toreador Media Welcome to Toreador Media About: The Daily Toreador | La Ventana | Digital Media About Toreador Media At Texas Tech University, Toreador Media produces the student newspaper, The Daily Toreador, web content at www.dailytoreador.com, and the campus yearbook, La Ventana. Content also is available via smartphones, tablets and on social media. All publications, productions and videos within the department are non-academic, experience-based learning opportunities and considered student activities. Toreador Media operates as an independent collegiate news-gathering organization. While most of our students are Media & Communications majors, other majors are represented and welcomed on staff. Toreador Media provides employment opportunities for students to use academic knowledge in journalism, broadcast, design and business in the practical settings of publishing the student newspaper, campus yearbook and digital media. Toreador Media employs 40 to 60 students each semester as editors, reporters, photographers, videographers, anchors, graphic designers, print and multimedia advertising account executives and members of the delivery staff. Operating philosophy Texas Tech University recognizes and affirms the editorial independence and press freedom of all student-edited campus media. Student editors have the authority to make all content decisions; consequently, they bear the responsibility for the decisions they make. Texas Tech University believes an independent, robust student press is a basic right in a free and democratic society and necessary for a full and vigorous freedom of expression as well as proper growth and development of students as socially responsible journalists and individuals. It also believes such a student press serves the campus community best. Student journalists should pursue their vitally important tasks within an environment conducive to growth and development and, to that end, the university has assigned responsibility for creating such an environment to Toreador Media through the Toreador Media Committee. Within this context, the Toreador Media Committee and Toreador Media develop policies and programs to assure adequate financial support for The Daily Toreador, La Ventana and dailytoreador.com to relieve student editors of many non-editorial/non-production business matters; to provide student editors readily available, competent advice and counsel concerning their ethical and legal responsibilities and other professional matters; and to promote on campus an understanding and continuing commitment to student freedom of the press. Organization Toreador Media, under College of Media & Communication, is advised by the Toreador Media Committee. The committee operates under authority granted by the president of the university and is responsible for advising the COMC Dean on matters related to Toreador Media. In the capacity of advisement to Toreador Media, the Toreador Media Committee exists to support and protect a vigorous, socially responsible Toreador Media at Texas Tech University. The committee brings together various elements of the campus community in an appropriate forum to discuss Toreador Media issues as they relate to the campus and to advise the COMC Dean and the Toreador Media staffs accordingly. Toreador Media Address Room 180, Media and Communications Rotunda Phone 806-742-3388 Email studentmedia@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2020 4:24 PM Toreador Media Our Staff History The Daily Toreador La Ventana Digital Media Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index