Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Actuarial Science MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Actuarial Science MS Apply Events Request More Info Actuarial Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Actuarial Science Prepare for a career analyzing and evaluating financial risk with the Master of Science in Actuarial Science in the Fox School of Business at Temple University. Build competency around statistical analysis and financial theory with this master’s degree program, acquiring the knowledge to pass the many professional exams needed to become a credentialed associate or fellow. Develop the business acumen and the quantitative and qualitative skills to elevate your candidacy for positions at organizations including consulting firms, government regulatory organizations, insurance companies and investment banks. This Master's program is housed in the Department of Risk, Insurance, and Healthcare Management, which is designated as both a Center of Actuarial Excellence and a Global Center of Insurance Excellence. The program introduces and explores the full breadth of core actuarial concepts, including valuation of certain and probabilistic cash flows (including life contingencies, financial derivatives and loss models); actuarial modeling techniques; insurance pricing and reserving (for both life/health/benefits and P&C insurance); data analytics and predictive modeling; business acumen, such as corporate finance, economics and accounting; and enterprise risk management. The Actuarial Science MS can be completed full time or part time on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. Faculty members within the master’s program maintain close relationships with leaders in Philadelphia’s robust insurance and actuarial communities. Weekly campus visits from these professionals present invaluable networking and career development opportunities for master’s students, often leading to internships or full-time work. Request Information Discover more about the Actuarial Science MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Careers Using complex statistical analysis, actuaries measure potential financial risks for an array of organizations, including health insurance, life insurance and property insurance companies. After determining the probability of undesirable events such as financial risk, actuaries recommend methods of avoiding or reducing the impact of those events. The actuarial arm of a company is essential to organizational growth and sustainability in any dynamic industry. Learn more about actuarial science as a career path. Discover career and internship opportunities for Fox Actuarial Science MS students. Who should apply? Current and prospective Temple students most qualified to pursue a Master of Science in Actuarial Science typically hold a bachelor’s degree in the following areas. Economics Engineering English Finance Mathematics Natural sciences Risk management and insurance Statistical science and data analysis A strong mathematics background (including multivariable calculus and probability) is essential for academic success in this program. Other skills and knowledge that can provide value for an actuarial career include business acumen, communication and interpersonal skills, industry knowledge and statistics. Classes & Curriculum The Master of Science in Actuarial Science is a 30-credit program that can be completed in three to four semesters of full-time studies. Classes take place at Temple's Main Campus in Philadelphia, providing students access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. Courses offered in this program include the following. Theory of Interest Actuarial Modeling I, II, III (life contingencies and loss modeling) Actuarial Analytics Advanced Theory of Interest (derivative valuation) Managing Human Capital Risk The Role of Property and Casualty Insurance Sector in Enterprise Risk Management. Learn more about Actuarial Science MS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration PhD with a concentration in Risk Management and Insurance Statistics PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Actuarial Science MS degree program, contact the following staff member. Chris Lind is the senior associate director of admissions. Email: christopher.lind@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. The Fox School of Business offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in the Fox School of Business. Sigma Chapter of Gamma Iota Sigma is an award-winning professional student organization that seeks to encourage, establish and enhance the professionalism of students in the actuarial science program. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Fox Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Toastmasters, or the Fox Professional Speakers organization, invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of students clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-AS-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Actuarial Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info