Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Performance MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Performance MM Apply Request More Info Performance MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Performance Expand on your musical achievements or gain advanced skills to teach in the performing arts with a Master of Music in Performance in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. The program offers an in-depth study of the history and theory of music and performance across 17 specialized concentrations. Over the course of this multiyear degree, available on a full- or part-time basis, you’ll develop the expertise to execute or teach effective musical performance as a soloist or part of an ensemble. Much of the learning in this program is hands-on, as students are immersed in a host of ensembles and orchestral repertoires. Students in this degree program receive individual instruction from Boyer’s award-winning faculty, comprising members of the The Philadelphia Orchestra and major metropolitan performing organizations, as well as artists who have performed as soloists or with ensembles from the around the world. Faculty members have performed with the Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia, Delaware Symphony Orchestra, Opera Philadelphia and Pennsylvania Ballet. Through this connection, there are opportunities for students to learn directly from top international artists in real-world environments. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Classes & Curriculum Instruction varies depending on your chosen instrument. Learn more about required and elective courses for each concentration. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Music Technology MS Music Therapy MMT Opera MM Performance DMA Vocal Arts MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Charles Abramovic is the chair of Keyboard Studies. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Christine Anderson is the coordinator of Voice and Opera. Phone: 215-204-8375 Email: christine.anderson@temple.edu Patricia Cornett is director of bands (winds and brass). Phone: 215-204-8335 Email: patricia.cornett@temple.edu Phillip O'Banion is the artistic director for percussion. Phone: 215-204-8329 Email: obanion@temple.edu Eduard Schmieder is the artistic director for strings. Phone: 215-204-8071 Email: eduard.schmieder@temple.edu Program Contacts Charles Abramovic is the chair of Keyboard Studies and coordinator of the DMA in Performance. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Paul Rardin is the chair of Vocal Arts. Phone: 215-204-4742 Email: rardin@temple.edu Terell Stafford is the chair of Instrumental Studies and director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Performance or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Specialize in the study of the bassoon and take courses that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Cello Specialize in the study of the cello and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Clarinet Specialize in the study of the clarinet and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Classical Guitar Specialize in the study of the cello and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Double Bass Specialize in the study of the double bass and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Flute Specialize in the study of the flute and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details French Horn Specialize in the study of the french horn and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Harp Specialize in the study of the harp and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Harpsichord Specialize in the study of the harpsichord and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Oboe Specialize in the study of the oboe and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Percussion Receive the finest instrumental training in the context of a comprehensive university: Specialize in the study of percussion and take other courses that support advanced musical and academic development. In this program, students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Piano Specialize in the study of piano and take other courses that support advanced musical and academic development. In this program, students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in solo recitals, as well as in large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Saxophone Specialize in the study of the saxophone and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Trombone Specialize in the study of the trombone and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Trumpet Specialize in the study of the trumpet and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Tuba Specialize in the study of the tuba and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Viola Specialize in the study of the viola and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Violin Specialize in the study of the violin and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details Voice Specialize in the study of vocal performance and take courses outside your area that support advanced musical and academic development. Students study privately with professional artist-teachers and enjoy opportunities for performance in numerous large and chamber music ensembles. View Concentration Details BC-PERF-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Performance MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info