Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geology MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geology MS Apply Request More Info Geology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Geology Master of Science In the Geology Master of Science in Temple’s College of Science and Technology, you will gain a broad understanding of the geological cycles while completing research in your selected field of study. Research & Field Experience Advanced courses and research areas in the program include geochemistry, including nanomineralogy, planetary geology, soil contamination, and weathering and diagenesis; sedimentary geology and paleontology, including coastal and aeolian dynamics, ichnology, paleontology-fossil provenance, paleopedology and modern soils, and Precambrian geology; structural geology, including geothermal energy and geomechanics; and urban geoscience, environmental science and sustainability, including ecohydrology, energy and land degradation, ice sheet stability and climate change, urban hydrology and more. Classes & Curriculum Master’s students are expected to study full time. The program includes advanced courses in geology, weekly graduate seminars, qualifying exams and research. Each student completes an original research thesis as a culmination of the program. Geology MS students take seven courses, which may include Coastal Processes, Environmental Nanogeoscience, Low-Temperature Geochemistry, Vertebrate Paleontology and Taphonomy, and more. Explore the full curriculum for the Geology MS. Related Graduate Degrees Geoscience PhD Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Dennis Terry is the graduate faculty advisor for Geology graduate programs. Phone: 215-204-8226 Email: eesgrad@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Geology degree include the Geological Society of Temple University, which encourages students to explore geological and environmental topics in social experiences with peers. Sigma Gamma Epsilon, a society that was established to recognize scholarship and professionalism in the Earth Sciences. Members can connect through social and research events. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-GEOL-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info