Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Resources Why support SMU Why support SMU Annual gifts to SMU make an immediate difference. Tuition only covers 70% of what it takes to power the SMU experience. SMU donors who make current-use gifts help fund many pressing needs from scholarships and pioneering research to elevated student activities and hands-on work opportunities. The collaborative generosity of SMU’s dedicated donors made the following inspiring stories possible. Student Affairs Disorienting times have a stellar ending The Mustang experience is like no other. From orientation to graduation, gifts to Student Affairs pave the way for students to be true to red and blue every step of the way. Jillian shares how being an Orientation Leader during the pandemic taught her valuable leadership skills far beyond performing skits and knowing facts about SMU. Read her story here. Support Student Affairs Athletics Student-athletes lead with heart SMU student-athletes learn more than how to hone their athletic abilities. SMU Athletics programs instill leadership skills and the value of giving back. Learn how SMU’s Student-Athlete Advisory Council set out brighten the day of children affected by cancer. Read the story. Support Athletics Meadows Thriving in a company of dancers Meadows School of the Arts empower young artists to launch careers. One young dancer attributes her growth as an artist and subsequent invitation to join a professional dance company during her sophomore year at SMU to the platforms, programs and people at Meadows. Read her story. Support Meadows Dedman College Innovations in the defense of dignity Gifts to the Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences support cutting-edge research and innovative programs like SMU’s human rights program. One of only seven of its kind in the nation, the SMU Human Rights Program is preparing the next generation of visionaries to defend human dignity around the globe. Read more. Support Dedman Cox School of Business Opportunities for high achievers Providing scholarships for underrepresented undergraduate and graduate students is just one of the many important ways annual gifts can make a life-altering difference. Learn how the Cox School of Business is expanding opportunities. Support Cox Perkins Scholarships for the calling Five individuals who were called to a life ministry started their Perkins School of Theology education in 2020 thanks to the generosity of several donors. Read more about how donors help current and future students prepare for a life of ministry. Support Perkins Simmons Future teachers excel as community partners The School Zone partnership is a collaboration with local schools and nonprofits. It provides hands-on experience to future teachers and meets the extraordinary needs of children in poverty. Learn how gifts to the Simmons School of Education and Human Development drive positive change on the Hilltop and beyond. Support Simmons Lyle School of Engineering Nimble science with relevant results Innovations such as the “lab on a chip” are made possible with gifts to the Lyle School of Engineering. Learn how a new antibody test being developed at SMU has the potential to detect COVID-19 antibodies faster and more accurately than current antibody testing. Support Lyle Libraries Safe spaces for students Creating safe spaces for students to learn and grow means being prepared for the unexpected. In order to keep students learning when the pandemic hit, SMU Libraries implemented a myriad of changes. Contactless Locker Pick Up was one solution. To find out about other ways SMU Libraries support and enrich the Mustang community, read the latest Library Newsletter. Support Libraries Dedman Law Clinics make lasting legal impressions Legal clinics that offer hands-on litigation experience are just one way that gifts to the Dedman School of Law give aspiring lawyers a leg up. Katie Davis ’19 recalls her quick pivot from law student to student attorney while trying a criminal case from start to finish. Read about her experience as a volunteer in an SMU legal clinic on page nine of Dedman School of Law’s Legal Clinic online magazine. Support Dedman Law Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search