Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Major Fellowships Office of Major Fellowships Have you ever thought about traveling to a foreign country to learn something about yourself? Pursuing a research project over the summer? Working to serve a community in need or to gain practical experience? Continuing your studies after you graduate? Whatever path you are considering, there are nationally competitive programs available to help you accomplish all these goals. The challenge of competing for these scholarships is substantial. Whether or not they eventually win, students who seriously undertake the process of preparing and applying for a major fellowship, or placement, are in for a life-changing experience. Because you will be competing against the very best college students from across the nation, it's natural to think that the odds are against you. As you read through foundation websites, the tone at times may seem a bit uninviting, perhaps even discouraging. The staff of the Office of Major Fellowships is here to assist students in strategically developing robust careers throughout their time at Clemson, as well as helping them to prepare the strongest applications possible for major fellowship opportunities such as the Truman, Marshall, Goldwater, Rhodes and many others. The Office of Major Fellowships serves the entire university population: undergrads, grads and recent alumni. In the Headlines Frank A. Burtner award winner goes above and beyond for students Biosystems engineering student awarded Czech Republic Fulbright scholarship Camden student earns Fulbright scholarship in Slovak Republic CAAH celebrates two Fulbright Scholars Robyn Curtis Director, Office of Major Fellowships robync@clemson.edu 864-656-9704 191 Cribb Hall (Core Campus D) Zach Mueller Assistant Director, Office of Major Fellowships mzmuell@clemson.edu 864-656-9704 191 Cribb Hall (Core Campus D) Baylor Graham Graduate Assistant, Major Fellowships baylorg@g.clemson.edu 864-656-9704 191 Cribb Hall (Core Campus D) Cristina McKinnon Administrative Assistant, Major Fellowships ccmckin@clemson.edu 864-656-9704 191 Cribb Hall (Core Campus D) List of Fellowships Schedule an Appointment Referral Form Follow Us on Facebook Office of Major Fellowships List of Fellowships Appointments Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram