Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, BS Gain Broad Computational Thinking and Programming Skills to Develop Emerging Technologies Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Computer Science 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Combine Engineering, Science and Math to Create Software Solutions to Real-World Issues A BS in Computer Science degree emphasizes the mathematical and theoretical foundations of computing, rather than teaching specific technologies. It provides the foundation you need to break into some of the most exciting and profitable careers. Prepare for opportunities in a variety of fields, including robotics, computer gaming, virtual reality, computer vision, media convergence, digital, evolutionary computing, computer architecture and so much more. Housed in the L3Harris Engineering Center, the computer science program has classrooms and high-tech innovative lab spaces where cutting-edge research is performed covering a wide range of topics. These labs include the Siemens Digital Grid Laboratory and a planned 360-degree augmented-virtual reality lab space. Here, you’ll learn from faculty who have internationally recognized expertise in fundamental and application areas. Your coursework offers opportunities to study phenomena connected with computers and computation, including software (algorithms and data structures), hardware (design of computers) and many diverse applications of computational thinking and techniques. All computer science majors must pass the Computer Science Foundation Exam in order to advance to upper-level coursework. Nationally, only UCF’s computer science program uses a test this way to qualify its students. The exam covers problem solving techniques, algorithms, abstraction, proofs and language skills. Tests are held each semester, and the exam helps ensure the success of our students. It’s also a resume builder and a feature many industry partners highlight as a primary reason they want to hire our computer science graduates. Highlights CSRankings.org ranks UCF’s Department of Computer Science in the top 50 for publishing in the most selective computer science conferences. The UCF Programming Team is one of the best in the world. CS teams compete annually in the ACM’s International Programming Contest, and our CS team has an unmatched record — finishing in the Southeast region’s top three every year since 1982. The job outlook for computer science grads is expected to grow 12% over the next decade. The average annual salary of computer science grads is $103,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Computer Science I & II Explore problem solving techniques, order analysis and notation, abstract data types and recursion. Then in the second course, you’ll cover algorithm design and analysis for tree, list, set and graph data models; algorithmic strategies and applications, and algorithmic complexity analysis; sorting and searching; practical applications. Computer Logic and Organization Learn about logic design, computer arithmetic, Instruction Set Architecture (MIPS, SPIM simulator), performance, data path, control unit, memory hierarchy, I/O interface. Security in Computing Gain an understanding of security theory. Legal and human factors, Malware, Intrusion patterns and tools, Windows, Unix, TCP/IP, and applications vulnerabilities. Detection. Policies and enforcement. Protection and assurance. View All Computer Sciences Courses You’ll Take Computer Science Skills You’ll Learn Develop an understanding of algorithms and data structures, as well as coding skills in various languages — Java, C, C++, Python and Javascript. Learn about the concepts, principles, processes and methods for developing large software systems. Cover skills that encompass a wide range of areas such as AI and machine learning, graphics and games, algorithms and complexity, software engineering, cybersecurity, big data,vision and robotics, and computer networks. Gain first-hand knowledge of ethical standards related to the field of computer science, including considerations involving artificial intelligence and machine learning. Career Opportunities Software Engineer Software Developer Database Administrator Computer Systems Analyst Computer Hardware Engineer Information Security Analyst Computer and Information Systems Managers Network Architect College of Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Computer Science (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Foundation Examination: Prior to taking courses beyond basic core requirements, students must pass a foundation exam (COT 3960) which covers problem solving techniques, algorithms, abstraction, and programming language skills. Tests will be administered each semester. Refer to the computer science website for more information about the foundation exam. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students are required to consult with a departmental advisor and file a plan of study after passing the foundation exam Students must meet a Residency Requirement of at least 24 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-5000 level courses taken from the Computer Science Department at UCF 18 of the 24 Residency hours must be at the 4000-5000 level Students must earn at least a grade of "C" (2.0) in each course in sections 2-5. In addition, students must maintain at least a 2.5 GPA in all courses in section 4. Students in the Computer Science major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Computer Science who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Computer Science who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Computer Science major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 30 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 27 credits from the following: STA2023 - Statistical Methods I (3) COP3330 - Object Oriented Programming (3) COP3502C - Computer Science I (3) COP3503C - Computer Science II (3) CDA3103C - Computer Logic and Organization (3) COT3100C - Introduction to Discrete Structures (3) CIS3360 - Security in Computing (3) COP3402 - Systems Software (3) COT4210 - Discrete Structures II (3) COP4331C - Processes for Object-Oriented Software Development (3) COT3960 - Foundation Exam Complete at least 1 of the following: ENC3241 - Writing for the Technical Professional (3) ENC3250 - Professional Writing (3) Grand Total Credits: 30 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida