Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Campus Life SMU and Dallas Arts Arts SMU and Dallas Arts Business Popular Dallas Locations Research Vision “I wanted to choose a college that understood how important collaboration is in film. My ability to be creative is highly dependent on my environment.” – Mollie Mulvey ’20, outside the Angelika Film Center, Dallas B.F.A. in film and media arts Filmmaker, The Better Part, LLC At SMU, Mollie balanced creative expression with healthy competition. She and her classmates challenged one another as artists, and forged relationships they can count on in their future careers. Creative Connections Hear that applause? That's for you, as you unleash your creativity on campus and in Dallas, where the broad spectrum of resources for the arts will launch your career. We’re firebrands for imagining and bringing to life the best of the human spirit. Here, the bold, curious and creative do what they love and love what they do, inspired by a city that invites them to “Live Large. Think Big.” Our vibrant community is a valuable extension of the classroom. Awe-Inspiring Performance Venues in the Largest Contiguous Urban Arts District in the U.S. SMU students dance at the AT&T Performing Arts Center’s Winspear Opera House, act in hit productions at the Wyly Theatre and perform at other storied venues in the Dallas Arts District to gain a unique range of artistic experiences. High-Performance Results SMU is tied for No. 1 for the highest-paid music graduates, according to College Factual 2021. The Hollywood Reporter ranked SMU’s theatre program among its Top 25 list of best graduate acting programs in the world. Meadows offers 11 areas of study in the visual, performing and communication arts with an innovative curriculum that encourages preparation for the marketplace, entrepreneurship and community impact. smu.edu/meadows National Leader in Arts Research SMU DataArts is SMU’s investment in big data and research with impact to help arts and cultural leaders nationwide make smarter decisions with data insights. National Treasure of Blockbuster Exhibits and International Influence As home to one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of Spanish art in the world, SMU’s Meadows Museum is part of the creative capital on campus that prepares visionary artists and scholars. smu.edu/meadowsmuseum Learning on the Job Meet Andrew As a Meadows student, Andrew Oh ’18 wrote and directed The Book of Job, a student-produced high school coming-of-age comedy. Because of the importance Meadows places on being resourceful and having an enterprising spirit, Andrew, who earned a bachelor’s degree in film and media arts, and his team created a budget and raised funds for the film, managed finances and handled marketing and promotion. Currently, he works as a quality assurance tester at id Software, a game development firm in Richardson, Texas. Marching to His Own Beat Meet Jay Jay Appaji ’18 channeled his passion for rhythm and Indian percussion into research that focused on memory and how people’s brains process similarities and differences between separate passages of unfamiliar music. After helping faculty set up a music cognition lab, Jay, who earned a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering, worked on his research and presented his findings in London, California, Montreal and Paris. Now he works as an innovation engineer at Dolby Laboratories in San Francisco. Live Large on Culture Art After Dark The Dallas Museum of Art – thousands of artworks from around the world, concerts, film screenings, tours, free admission on selected nights. dma.org Nasher Sculpture Center – urban retreat for modern and contemporary sculpture, outdoor concerts and film screenings. nashersculpturecenter.org Meyerson Symphony Center – home to SMU’s Meadows at the Meyerson concert. dallasculture.org/meyerson Winspear Opera House – Riveting performances presented by the Dallas Opera. dallasopera.org Hang Out Klyde Warren Park – food trucks, live music and more. klydewarrenpark.org Bishop Arts District – eclectic mix of independent boutiques, restaurants, coffee shops and art galleries. bishopartsdistrict.com Sylvan Thirty – farmers markets, local retailers and more. sylvanthirty.com Game On Mustangs compete on 17 NCAA Division I athletic teams. Big D is home to six professional sports teams – the Texas Rangers, the Dallas Mavericks, the Dallas Cowboys, the Dallas Stars, the Dallas Wings and FC Dallas. View this in a larger map Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search