Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News Education Video: Alexes Harris draws attention to low representation of people of color in bone marrow registry Education | Health and medicine | Profiles | Public Health | UW and the community | UW Notebook | Video May 26, 2022 Video: Alexes Harris draws attention to low representation of people of color in bone marrow registry Kiyomi Taguchi UW News Journalists: download video assets here. In 2016, Alexes Harris was diagnosed with a rare blood cancer. The UW professor of sociology was told she had only 18 to 24 months to live if she didn’t have a bone marrow transplant. But the search for bone marrow donors turned up only five matches, and none ended up being a donor. One reason Harris had trouble finding a match is because people of color are underrepresented on the registry, and ancestry matters when finding a compatible bone marrow match. Harris’ mother is white and her father, Black and Filipino. According to Be The Match, the nation’s largest bone marrow registry, a person’s racial and ethnic background is important in predicting the likelihood of finding a match. For example, a white person has a 79% chance of finding a match. A Black person’s potential match is only 29%, and Asian and Latinx people both have about a 47% chance of matching. People of Native American ancestry have a 60% chance of finding a match. Harris was fortunate; her doctor was aware of a clinical trial that used cord blood stem cells to treat her blood cancer. The stem cell transplant saved her life. Harris works with Be The Match to raise awareness of the bone marrow registry, especially within communities of color. She calls those who register and commit to becoming potential donors “superheroes” whose actions can save a life. For more information, contact Harris at yharris@uw.edu. Tag(s): Alexes Harris UW Notebook Read more stories from UW Notebook Stories More video stories Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA