Skip to main content alert The Family Center is currently closed and will reopen for in person events and lactation space reservations beginning March 14, 2022. Visit the events page to access events and activities registration. Visit the lactation space reservation page to reserve space. Thank you for your patience as we develop a re-opening plan that is safe and in service to our mission. We will continue to provide updates and remain in open communication with our community and public health officials during this time. The Family Center will continue to provide resources and benefits virtually during the phased re-opening. Family Center staff are available to meet with and advise students, postdocs, and campus partners. Email familycenter@upenn.edu to contact staff. Visit www.familycenter.upenn.edu/virtual for more information and to access virtual resources for families. Utility Links Office of the Provost Penn VPE Penn Secondary Nav Penn FRC Visit Us Donate 10 Year Anniversary Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn FRC About Us Contact Us Resources & Support Event Registration Become a Member Drawer Menu Penn FRC About Us Explore Back to main menu Our Staff Our Family-Friendly Facilities Explore Back to main menu Guidelines Medical Policy Advisory Board Contact Us Family Fellows Contact Us Resources & Support Explore Back to main menu Child Care Care.com Schools & Housing Health & Wellness Lactation Resources Grants for PhD Students with Families Parenting Resources For Expecting Parents PennCard and Campus Services Family Friendly Philadelphia Virtual Resources for Families Title IX: Know Your Rights Event Registration Explore Back to main menu Opportunities in Philadelphia Become a Member Explore Back to main menu Parental Release Consent Form Visit Us Donate 10 Year Anniversary Search Group Created with Sketch. We support Student Parents at Penn Visit Our Space Learn More Join Our Activities Learn More Find Resources Learn More Become a Member Learn More Visit Us Family Center Hours Spring 2022: Closed, Open for Lactation Room Reservations and Events Academic Years Hours Monday-Friday: 9AM - 5PM Saturday and Sunday: Closed Summer Hours TBD Address 3615 Locust Walk, Lower Level University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia PA 19104-6221 215-746-2701 familycenter@upenn.edu Useful Resources Care.com Contact Us Virtual Programming Virtual Resources for Families Family Grants for PhD Students Penn COVID Information The Family Resource Center at Penn is a hub for information, resources, activities and advocacy for students and post-docs with children. @pennfamilycenter Follow Us Powered by Curator.io Family Resource Center 3615 Locust Walk, Lower Level Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-2701 Stay Connected with Updates from Penn Family Resource Center Sign Up For Our Newsletter Footer Menu Contact Us Site Credits ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104