Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini Community Calendar Welcome to the School of Art’s community calendar! Beginning in summer 2020, this calendar will contain information on all events open to School of Art staff, faculty, and students. Simplified calendar view available at yaleart.org/cal Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody EXHIBITIONS AT YALE Lux et Femina: Women in Graphic Design at Yale at the Haas Family Arts Library through February 2022 Full information > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Toggle between calendar, list, and grid views using the options in the top right ↓ Toggle between calendar, list, and grid views using the options in the top right: We changed the default view from calendar to list so that upcoming events show up first. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody External Event Resources Spring 2022 Online Artist Workshops hosted by MASS MoCA’s Assets for Artists Free Artist Financial & Business Online Workshops are coming up throughout Spring 2022 for MA, RI & CT-based artists. All workshops are FREE and held via Zoom, with pre-registration required to keep the cohorts at a size that maximizes participation and peer support. Upcoming events include: The Ultimate Guide to Artist Publicity w/ Ariel Hyatt & Maya Azucena Thursday, March 10, 2022 | 2-4 p.m. The Business of Writing: How to Successfully Research and Submit to Literary Journals, Publishers, and Agents w/ Kristina Marie Darling Wednesday, March 16, 2022 | 2-4 p.m. See all upcoming workshops here > Image: Clockwise from top left: Workshop trainers for our newest offerings: Anabel Vázquez Rodríquez, Nancy Marks, Catherine T. Morris, Maya Azucena, and Ariel Hyatt. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody How to access this calendar Bookmark Bookmark the simplified calendar view available at yaleart.org/cal, to your preferred browser Best for viewing on mobile devices Save the simplified calendar URL to your phone’s home screen for direct access Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Subscribe Subscribe this calendar to your own calendaring software to integrate all events by clicking the orange subscribe button above Although this option removes the filters that allows you to distinguish between event types Note: We recommend that faculty and students within the four areas of graduate study instead subscribe to their departmental calendars, as those will include the majority of these community-wide events as well (see your departmental calendar’s “How this calendar works” section for more info). Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Initiated and maintained by Lindsey Mancini, please email her directly to add your SoA community event to the calendar below. Note: For events hosted virtually, the Zoom links or Meeting IDs that aren’t made public here will be located in both community announcement emails and “Week at SoA” mailings sent to the community on Monday mornings. If you’re a current member of the School of Art staff, faculty, or student body and are having trouble locating a Zoom link, or if you’d like to be added to the list to receive these internal announcements, please email the School’s Assistant Director of Communications Lindsey Mancini. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Background GIF by Chris Gannon on GIPHY. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini