Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Landscape Landscape Print Landscape and Plantings FRES is responsible for the management, design, and technical support of landscape projects and oversees all open space, including trees, plantings, walks, hardscape, and exterior furnishings. The Landscape Architecture group, within the Office of the University Architect, supports the University's mission by preserving the character of the landscape and implementing improvements and ecological initiatives. The Office works closely with our Urban Park staff to maintain our campus. All landscape projects follow our Standards » for exterior furnishings including bike racks, benches, lighting, bollards, tables and chairs, and donor plaques. Reference list of all Landscape Standards (PDF). The design of our campus stems from the original landscape plan developed in 1977. For more information about campus development, visit Campus History ». The University of Pennsylvania campus in West Philadelphia was officially recognized as an arboretum in 2017. Penn’s urban campus has achieved particular standards of professional practices deemed important for arboreta and botanic gardens, and therefore has been awarded a Level 2 Accreditation by The ArbNet Arboretum Accreditation Program. Penn’s nearly 300 acres in West Philadelphia are the primary home of the University, populated by more than 21,000 graduate and undergraduate students and 17,000 faculty and staff. The newly accredited Penn Campus Arboretum encompasses the entire campus, and is now one of Penn’s two arboretums. The Morris Arboretum of the University of Pennsylvania (link is external) is the official Arboretum of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and is located in Chestnut Hill, a mature suburban community about 15 miles from Penn’s main West Philadelphia campus. The Morris Arboretum and Penn have a robust partnership promoting shared research, outreach and education programs highlighting the importance of trees. The Penn Campus Arboretum curates and manages a diverse collection of trees, focused on preserving and sustaining the urban forest for the well-being of the community, environmental benefits, research and educational opportunities. Penn’s campus is an urban forest with more than 6,500 trees in its collection, over 240 species of trees and shrubs, ten specialty gardens and five urban parks. Penn Plant Explorer A searchable database that allows you to locate and learn about landscape features on campus. Landscape Donor Opportunities Trees, benches and small garden plantings are dedicated as commemorative elements on campus. Maintenance and Design The creation, care, and management of our trees, plantings, campus walkways, and specialty gardens is coordinated by the Office of the University Architect. Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Penn Plant Explorer Landscape Donor Opportunities Maintenance and Design Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage