Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students Apply Now Sam Arguez VFX Artist, Bungie Cohort: 2 Current position: VFX Artist, Bungie Games shipped: Destiny 2, Aeon Flux (PS2,XB), Spy Hunter: Nowhere to Run (PS2, XB), Ghostbusters (PS3, XB360, PC), Halo 3: ODST (XB360), Halo: Reach + "Noble" map pack (XB360), Destiny (PS3, PS4, XB360, XBOne) (including expansions "The Dark Below" & "House of Wolves"), Destiny: The Taken King (PS3, PS4, XB360, XBOne) Q&A with Sam What is the best part about your current position? I get to make what I think is the coolest section of art in the game. Why did you choose to get your education from SMU Guildhall? The guildhall looked like it had industry backing and had the solid name of SMU behind it. It seemed almost too good to be true. How did SMU Guildhall prepare you for your career in gaming, and what impact has it had on your life? The major thing it taught me was how to work in teams to make a game. The secondary thing it taught me was how to build art for a game. The impact is immeasurable. I wouldn't be in the industry today had it not been for the guildhall. I wouldn't live in the city I live in. Everything would be different. It was a huge turning point in my life. What is your favorite Guildhall memory? Getting an email from an engineer at Valve, telling me how impressed he was with what we were able to do with the Source Engine on our final project, in such little time after it was released. What advice would you offer for students looking to get into gaming? Start making something. Learn a game engine like Unreal. Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x