Menu Home What We Do Work With Us Why Orlando Contact Partnerships Partnerships are made, not born.John C. Hitt, Former UCF president What We Do. Our Story UCF is experienced in developing and promoting the commercial benefits of its research and high-tech expertise. UCF promotes the technology-led economic development for the Orlando community by aiding in the transfer of technology and business skills between the university and industry teams. From nanoscience to optics and photonics, and from simulation and training to forensic science, our research faculty bring together scientists from across the globe to develop new technologies. Find out What We Do. Florida has more research parks than theme parks.Joe Wallace, executive director of the Central Florida Research Park Work With Us. University Partners UCF, adjacent to the Central Florida Research Park, has modern research facilities and delivers 15,000 students into the workforce annually including engineering, digital media and computer science graduates. From startup to Fortune 500 company, and from the aerospace to defense, health and medical industries, UCF and the city of Orlando have the Florida locations and offices to grow your business. So relocate to Florida for the warm weather but stay for the corporate tax rate and friendly business climate. Learn how to Work With Us. Orlando, one of “… the next big boom towns in the U.S.”Forbes Magazine Why Orlando. Orlando From thrilling theme parks to forward-thinking research parks, Central Florida has made its mark on the world’s stage. Home to one of the largest universities in the U.S. — the University of Central Florida — and some of the world’s most innovative private and public companies, this dynamic area has emerged as a region that provides world-caliber ideas for everything from entertainment to energy, high technology to transportation. Read Why Orlando. Home What We Do Work With Us Why Orlando Contact We’re looking for our next great partner. Partner with us. Go to ucf.edu