Skip to main content Home About Overview Mission and Vision Department Leadership Visit Us Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Department History Contact Us Accreditation Academics Overview Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Bachelor's/Master's Integrated Program Student Community People Overview Faculty Directory Staff Directory Job Openings External Advisory Committee Research Overview Research Centers Research Partners Student Research Opportunities Research Poster Resources News and Events Overview Calendar Seminars Press Coverage PULSE Newsletter Connect Overview Alumni Profiles Giving Visit Us Contact Us ☰ Home About Academics People Research News and Events Connect Welcome to Biomedical Engineering Learn More About the Department @DrSunilKSahai @UTAustin @PlanIIHonors @utsystem @TAMUEngineering Can't wait to see ya on the 40 Acres, Surya! 🤘 Follow @utbiomedical The second class of Clinical Innovation Design (CID) Fellows finished their nine-month program with a presentation of their identified clinical need and proposed solution on Monday, May 9, 2022. Read more ... Heart attacks and strokes triggered by electrical misfiring in the heart are among the biggest killers on the planet. Now, researchers have created a “liquid wire” that, when injected into pig hearts, can guide the organs to a normal rhythm. Professor Elizabeth Cosgriff-Hernandez presented this new development at the American Chemical Society. Read more ... Hyun Jung Kim has been developing his "gut-on-a-chip" technology for more than a decade. These miniature systems represent accurate models of the patient's own gut, as well as the disease simulation. The aim is to use the patients’ own cells to test drugs and understand disease processes to determine the right treatment for the patient. Read more ... Researchers at The University of Texas at Austin have developed new guidelines for fabricating nanoscale gel materials, or nanogels, that can deliver numerous therapeutic treatments to treat cancer in a precise manner. In addition to enabling the delivery of drugs in response to tumors, their nanogels can target malignant cells (or biomarkers), degrade into nontoxic components and execute multiple clinical functions. Read more ... News 2022 CID Fellows Work on Improving Gastronomy Tubes Keep reading Aditi Merchant Receives Texas Exes Edward S. Guleke Student Excellence Award The Texas Exes has awarded Aditi Merchant, a junior in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, with their annual Edward S. Guleke Student Excellence Award. Merchant was recognized for her extensive outreach, research, and work experience as well as her strong... Keep Reading Molecular Barcodes Reveal Tumor Lineages Cancer researchers, including Dr. Amy Brock, talk with Nature about expanding the tumor barcoding toolkit to track cancer cells over time in order to learn about mutations that cause therapy resistance, including with Brock's innovative ClonMapper technique. Keep Reading Outreach Project Aims to Excite K-12 Texas Students About Biomechanics For the past two years, most hands-on K-12 outreach projects either halted completely or shifted to online learning due to the ongoing global pandemic. But as time progressed, it became evident that many students were not thriving in this virtual-only... Keep Reading Research Areas Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation New imaging technologies are providing the ability to interrogate and manipulate living biological specimens... Learn More Cellular and Biomolecular Engineering Cellular and biomolecular engineering forms the underpinning of molecular medicine. Areas include... Learn More Computational Biomedical Engineering Due to dramatic, multidisciplinary advances in molecular biology and technology, the first... Learn More Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics Biomechanics is the study of the structure and function of biological systems such as humans,... Learn More 100% Of Ph.D. students are fully funded 1,800+ Texas Biomedical Engineering alumni around the world 81% Of undergraduate students participate in research Spotlights Discover what's happening at Texas BME Two Texas BME Professors Receive NSF CAREER Awards Learn more Jeanne Stachowiak Elected to the AIMBE College of Fellows Learn more Laura Suggs Receives SFB’s Clemson Award for Contributions in Literature Learn more Zoldan Receives R01 to Develop Hydrogels for Personalized Peripheral Artery Disease Treatment Learn more © The University of Texas at Austin | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Room Reservations Equipment Reservations Faculty and Staff Resources Communications Guidelines BME Students Canvas ENGR Direct UT Direct UT Directory Contact Us Giving Follow Texas BME