Business Engagement Talent Interns Career Fairs On Campus Interviews On Site Networking Research CyBiz Lab Capstone Projects President’s Initiative Grad Students & Post Docs Collaborative Research Professors as Advisors Corporate Engagement/Branding Guest Lecture Speaking Gigs Program Curriculum Advisors Advisory Boards Industry Associations & Consortia Sponsorships CyBiz Lab Specialized Equipment & Spaces Fee for Service Mitigate Risk & Liability Labs & Staff Prototyping or 3D Printing Visualization Philanthropy Scholarship & Leadership Programs Mentor Network Seed Network Naming Specialized Resources America’s SBDC Iowa Center For Industrial Research And Service (Ciras) America’s Cultivation Corridor CyBiz Lab ISU I-Corps Site KEY PROGRAM DATES ISU Office of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer ISU Pappajohn Center For Entrepreneurship ISU Research Foundation ISU Research Park ISU Startup Factory Regents Innovation Fund Proposals News & Events News Events Featured Stories About Contact Select Page Connecting Industry Leaders With University Resources ISU receives national recognition for supporting innovation, entrepreneurship across Iowa AMES, Iowa — As businesses closed their doors at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, having a user-friendly, professional online presence became a lifeline for many to stay afloat. America’s Small Business Development Center (SBDC) Iowa, which is located in Iowa... 2021 IEP Place Finalist Spotlight: Iowa State University By: David Spalding Raisbeck Endowed Dean, Ivy College of Business Interim Vice President for Economic Development and Industry Engagement Through innovative research, extension and outreach, and economic development programs, Iowa State University of Science... APLU Names Six Public Universities as Finalists for 2021 Innovation & Economic Prosperity Universities Awards Washington, D.C.— The Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU) today named six universities as finalists for its ninth annual Innovation & Economic Prosperity (IEP) University Awards. The winners will be announced during the association’s... Iowa State Economic Development and Industry Relations Announces Patrick Klepcyk as the Director, Office of Innovation Commercialization and President, Iowa State Research Foundation Iowa State University Office of Economic Development and Industry Relations today announced Patrick Klepcyk as the Director, Office of Innovation Commercialization (OIC) and President of the Iowa State Research Foundation (ISURF). Klepcyk was hired following a national search, and replaces interim director Dana Rewoldt who has been the interim director role since August, 2019. Regents Innovation Fund Proposals Request for Proposals: RIF RFP FY21-22 The Office of Economic Development and Industry Relations (EDIR) is now accepting applications for FY22 Regents Innovation Fund (RIF) proposals. FY22 RIF Phase I and Phase II Proposals EDIR is now accepting applications for... Opening the Doors to Excellence at Iowa State University EDIR is your partner in navigating the boundless resources available to industry leaders Talent Interns and More Research Inspiring Advancements Engagement & Branding Establishing Identity Specialized Resources Equipment and Spaces About Us The Office of Economic Development and Industry Relations (EDIR) assists external stakeholders in accessing the unique capabilities and services of Iowa State University. EDIR is a single point of contact to streamline the process of making connections between industry and the university. Get in Touch If you have any questions, do not hesitate to contact us at (515) 294-7444 Contact Us Now Stay in Touch Connect and stay on top of the latest news out of the EDIR Our Services EDIR assists external stakeholders, both individuals and companies, in connecting with appropriate university specialists who can offer business and technical assistance, research and development, access to facilities (including the ISU Research Park, laboratories, and equipment), and assistance with workforce development. Learn more > Center for Industrial Research and Service The Center for Industrial Research and Service (CIRAS) serves Iowa companies in five main areas: Growth, Leadership, Productivity, Technology, and Workforce. Over the past five years, CIRAS’ work with Iowa businesses has generated an economic impact of more than $2.5 billion. America’s SBDC Iowa The Iowa Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) provides free, confidential, customized business advice in all 99 Iowa counties to businesses with 500 employees or less. ISU Research Park The Iowa State University Research Park Corporation is a non-profit, independent corporation that serves as an innovation community and incubator for new and expanding businesses. The park currently houses 12 buildings and tenants employ more than 2,250 employees. ISURF & OIPTT ISU Research Foundation (ISURF) and Office of Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer (OIPTT). A non-profit entity that manages the protection and commercialization of its research results, the ISURF works closely with Iowa State University’s OIPTT. ISU Pappajohn Center for Entrepreneurship The ISU Pappajohn Center for Entrepreneurship is the catalyst that brings together the people and ideas necessary for launching or growing successful enterprises. Copyright 2022 Economic Development & Industry Relations