By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate First-Year FAQ More from this Section Professional Licensures Application Checklist Homeschool Requirements Undergraduate Admissions FAQ When you apply to Syracuse University, you apply to one of nine undergraduate colleges, depending upon the program of study in which you are interested. Three admission plans are offered: Early Decision, Regular Decision and Spring Enrollment. You can apply for single, dual or combined enrollment. Here are the most frequently asked questions regarding undergraduate admissions at Syracuse University: What are your requirements for admission? How do I locate my SUID? How do I monitor the status of my application materials online? Do you offer merit scholarships? When should I apply for financial aid? How much is the application fee? Can I receive a fee waiver? Do I need to submit a portfolio? If it's not required, can I still send in extra portfolio materials? (Specifically Common App arts supplement) Should I apply to Syracuse University through the Early Decision plan? Does Syracuse require SAT Subject Tests? Are students able to change their mind about using test scores in the evaluation of their application? Will students who do not submit SAT/ACT scores be eligible for merit scholarships? Does Syracuse require the writing/essay sections of the SAT/ACT? Does Syracuse University weigh my application differently if I take the SAT or ACT more than once? Do you accept AP, IB or college credits taken in high school? What is the minimum GPA and SAT/ACT score required for admission? Is an interview required? Can I receive a second bachelor's degree? Do you have part-time or online study? Does Syracuse offer summer programs for high school students? Can I apply if I have earned a GED? If I am accepted during Early Decision, can I have an extension on the Feb. 15 reply deadline? What are your homeschool requirements? If I will complete most or all of my high school requirements as a junior, can I apply as a high school junior? What is the total cost of attendance? Does the program I'm interested in offer a professional license, certification or other credentials? What are your requirements for admission? Link View a complete list of requirements for first-year and transfer admission. Additional requirements for international students as well as college-specific requirements are also available. How do I locate my SUID? Link You will receive your SUID number once you submit an application for admission. After your application is uploaded on our system you will receive an email confirmation with access to your SUID. You can always email us at orange@syr.edu (providing your full name and date of birth) and our staff can retrieve it for you. Only students can request their own SUID numbers. How do I monitor the status of my application materials online? Link You may access your application status online through MySlice. You will not receive an admission decision through MySlice, but this will allow you to track receipt of your application materials. Once your application is uploaded on our system you will receive a confirmation email with access to your SUID and the instructions on how to check your application status online. You may check the status of your application for admission via the “Admissions To Do Items” box on MySlice. If you have not activated your NetID, you will need to do so to access MySlice—please visit http://netid.syr.edu, click “Activate Your NetID” and follow the instructions. You will need your SUID number to activate your NetID. Once you activate it, you will only need your NetID and associated password to access MySlice. Admission notification will not be accessible through MySlice. Admission notification is sent electronically only via email. Please allow two to four weeks from the date you submit your materials for mailed items to be reflected as complete on our system. Contact us if you have any questions. Do you offer merit scholarships? Link All students who submit completed applications for admission at Syracuse University are considered for merit scholarships. No separate application is needed. When should I apply for financial aid? Link U.S. Citizens and permanent residents are eligible to apply for federal financial aid. Review the financial aid application requirements and deadlines. File your financial aid applications at the same time as your admissions application; do not wait for an admission decision. Federal financial aid will be disbursed to the student account when all financial aid and admission requirements are met, including receipt of official degree bearing transcripts. Syracuse University requires both the FAFSA and the CSS PROFILE applications. How much is the application fee? Can I receive a fee waiver? Link The application fee is $85. There are a few ways to receive a fee waiver: Students who received an SAT or ACT fee waiver may forward a copy to our office; If you have received a waiver from NACAC, we will accept this; School counselors may request an application fee waiver for students for whom it would present a financial hardship. This request must come in writing on school letterhead and may be submitted as a PDF to orange@syr.edu. Any current or former member of the United States military (Veteran, Active-Duty, National Guard, Reserve or Early Commissioning Program) will have their application fee automatically waived by completing the Veterans and Military Students Application. To submit the application if you have a fee waiver: In the "Profile" section of the Common Application you will indicate and sign that you qualify for a fee waiver, based on the indicators of economic need listed in this section. This will allow you to submit your application without paying the fee. Once you submit your application, be sure to submit the appropriate documentation to Syracuse University to show that you qualify for the fee waiver. Do I need to submit a portfolio? If it's not required, can I still send in extra portfolio materials? (Specifically Common App arts supplement) Link A few academic programs at Syracuse require portfolios. Please view our college-specific requirements to see if this applies to your program of interest. Syracuse only accepts portfolios and auditions for the Department of Drama and School of Art and Design through the Art Supplement section of the Common Application, if not completed in person. More information about submitting the required portfolio or audition can be found online: College of Visual and Performing Arts (programs in art & design, drama, and music) School of Architecture Due to the volume of applications and supporting materials we receive each year, we cannot accept portfolio materials that are not required as part of the application process. Should I apply to Syracuse University through the Early Decision plan? Link If Syracuse University is your first choice, you should seriously consider applying through the Early Decision option. As an Early Decision candidate, if admitted to your first choice college, you agree to enroll at Syracuse University. The admission criteria is the same at Syracuse for early and regular decision candidates. Learn more about your enrollment options. Does Syracuse require SAT Subject Tests? Link No, we do not require SAT Subject Tests. Students need to submit either their SAT or ACT test scores. SAT/ACT scores will not be required for students applying for fall 2022 admission. Are students able to change their mind about using test scores in the evaluation of their application? Link Yes. Students are able to change the response to the test-optional question. The request must be submitted no later than December 1 for early decision or February 1 for regular decision. Students can request a change to the test-optional question by emailing orange@syr.edu using the subject line Change Test-Optional. Will students who do not submit SAT/ACT scores be eligible for merit scholarships? Link Yes, all students, whether they submit SAT/ACT scores for fall 2022 or not, will be automatically considered for merit scholarships. Does Syracuse require the writing/essay sections of the SAT/ACT? Link No, we do not require these sections. Does Syracuse University weigh my application differently if I take the SAT or ACT more than once? Link No, the Admissions Committee will consider the highest score you have achieved on either the SAT or ACT. Do you accept AP, IB or college credits taken in high school? Link Yes, each individual college at Syracuse University evaluates AP, IB and college credits. View a list of AP and IB scores required for credit. What is the minimum GPA and SAT/ACT score required for admission? Link There is no minimum GPA or standardized test score required for admission. Applicants to Syracuse University present a variety of academic and extracurricular credentials. The Admissions Committee will review your application individually, taking into account your academic credentials, as well as your unique personal qualities. For students entering the University in the fall semester of 2020, the average GPA was 3.67 Is an interview required? Link No, interviews are not required of applicants. However, this face-to-face meeting with an admissions representative is an ideal way to further personalize your application. Interested students may request a personal interview during the summer or fall. Interviews will be offered virtually only for fall 2021. Can I receive a second bachelor's degree? Link Yes, students can pursue a second bachelor’s degree in a program of study unlike the previous degree received. Students interested in earning a second bachelor’s degree should review the Financial Aid policy and information in the course catalog, and then contact the Office of Admissions at orange@syr.edu. Do you have part-time or online study? Link Yes, Syracuse’s College of Professional Studies offers part-time students opportunities to earn undergraduate and graduate degrees. Learn more about about part-time study. Online part-time undergraduate degrees are also available through the College of Professional Studies. Classes are fully online with interactive live sessions that meet weekly. For more information, please contact the College of Professional Studies at 315.443.9378. Does Syracuse offer summer programs for high school students? Link Yes, high school students can take classes during the summer. Learn more about Summer College for high school students. Can I apply if I have earned a GED? Link We will consider applications from students who have earned their GED. Students with their GED must submit an official high school transcript for the grades completed, along with official SAT or ACT scores. If I am accepted during Early Decision, can I have an extension on the Feb. 15 reply deadline? Link If you are accepted to your first-choice college at Syracuse University under the Early Decision plan, you must respond no later than February 15 to secure your place in the class. What are your homeschool requirements? Link Syracuse University is happy to receive applications for admission from students educated within their home environment. Learn more about our homeschool requirements and procedures. If I will complete most or all of my high school requirements as a junior, can I apply as a high school junior? Link We do offer Early Admission for secondary school juniors who have completed all but a few secondary school course requirements for graduation. Students are admitted directly to the University without a secondary school diploma. It is the responsibility of students to meet the requirements to obtain a diploma from their secondary school at the end of their first year at Syracuse. Early Admission candidates should contact the Office of Admissions for more information and to set up a personal interview. Secondary school juniors who will finish all of their graduation requirements early should apply under the Regular Decision Plan. What is the total cost of attendance? Link View the Cost of Attendance for Syracuse University. Does the program I'm interested in offer a professional license, certification or other credentials? Link View a full list of programs offering professional licensure or a path to professional licensure. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy