Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Mechanical Engineering About ME About ME Message from the Chair Mission and Objectives Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Research Research Faculty Research Areas Laboratories Research Center for Advanced Manufacturing Undergraduate Research Opportunities People News & Events News & Events Seminars Student Groups ☰ Mechanical Engineering About Lyle Mechanical Engineering The Mechanical Engineering Department at SMU has a long tradition of offering a superb engineering education within an environment that fosters creativity and innovation. Small classes, a trademark of the program, not only allow for strong mentoring but also promote academic excellence through cooperation and teamwork. The department’s exceptionally qualified faculty members are continuously engaged in cutting-edge research projects, facilitating the attainment and transmission of knowledge to the students. Leading by example, through encouragement and dedication, the faculty is committed to the success of every student during his or her tenure at SMU and after graduation. Read More Academics Faculty Research Did you know? Prof. Jack Holman (1934 – 2013) spent over 50 years at SMU, first as a student, and then as a professor. He wrote several text books, including the popular textbook Heat Transfer, which was first published in 1963 and remained in circulation through 10 editions. It was utilized around the world and many of SMU’s students and faculty from overseas knew of Prof. Holman from his books before ever stepping foot on campus. Undergraduate students who receive financial aid Internships Research grants Student job seekers employed at graduation Women undergraduate students School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus