Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Electrical Engineering VISIT ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Electricity is central to our lives and its role will continue to grow in the coming decades as green transportation and renewable energy rely more and more on smart electric energy. Electrical engineers also design communication networks, wireless systems, autonomous systems, computing systems, and signal and information processing systems. They invent advanced electronic and photonic devices, integrated circuits, or information processing systems. Department Overview The Electrical Engineering department is among the oldest in the United States and has a storied history including being at the foundation of modern radio communications, control engineering, and multimedia coding. And, every day we are hard at work at pushing new frontiers in Electrical Engineering with innovative teaching and state-of- the-art research. Electrical Engineering at Columbia Education Our undergraduate program gives students a rounded foundation in electrical engineering, with depth specializations in photonics & devices, circuits & electronics, signals & systems, and communications & networking. We also offer MS programs in Electrical Engineering and, jointly with the Computer Science Department, in Computer Engineering, as well as PhD/DES programs. Our Master of Science program is highly flexible to accommodate each graduate student’s needs, while offering the opportunity to study the newest and most important topics in depth. In all areas, we stress a hands-on approach, with theory strongly motivated by practical applications. Doctoral students in the PhD or DES program work closely with their faculty advisors on exploring the new frontiers in research to prepare them for academic or industrial research careers. Our doctoral students are a carefully selected group who will go on to be the leaders and innovators in tomorrow's electrical engineering field. Research Our department makes important contributions in core engineering areas. Visit our Research pages to learn more about each one. Faculty Our world-renowned faculty push forward the frontiers of knowledge in electrical engineering. They introduce students to a career of advanced research and development in either an academic or industrial setting. For a full list of faculty members, please visit the department faculty page. Contact the Department Department of Electrical Engineering Columbia University 500 West 120th Street 1300 S. W. Mudd Building, Mail Code 4712 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-3105 Fax: 212-932-9421 Email: [email protected] Computer Engineering Program The Computer Engineering program combines key aspects of electrical engineering and computer science. Whether pursuing a BS or Master of Science degree, students learn the fundamentals of circuits, systems, and software associated with the design of programmable systems used in general purpose computing, communications, control, and signal processing. Learn More About Computer Engineering Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University