Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Financial Aid Menu Search TTU Financial Aid Home Loan Consolidation A Direct Consolidation Loan allows a borrower to consolidate (combine) multiple federal student loans into one new loan. The result is a single monthly payment instead of multiple payments. Eligible Loans Eligible loans include subsidized and unsubsidized Direct and FFEL Stafford Loans, Direct and FFEL PLUS Loans, Federal Perkins Loans, and, in some cases, existing consolidation loans. Private education loans are not eligible for consolidation. Interest Rate The fixed rate is based on the weighted average of the interest rates on the loans being consolidated, rounded up to the nearest one-eighth of 1%. For the most current interest rate information visit studentaid.ed.gov Repayment Repayment begins immediately upon disbursement of the loan. (The first payment will be due within 60 days.) The repayment term ranges from 10 to 30 years, depending on the amount of your consolidation loan and your other education loan debt and the repayment plan you select. Considerations Consolidation offers lower monthly payments by giving you up to 30 years to repay your loans. However, increasing the length of your repayment period means you will make more payments and pay more in interest than you would otherwise. If you don't need monthly payment relief, you should compare the cost of repaying your unconsolidated loans against the cost of repaying a consolidation loan. Once your loans are combined into a Direct Consolidation Loan, they cannot be removed. The loans that were consolidated have been paid off and no longer exist. Take the time to study the pros and cons of consolidation before you submit your application. Application Process To begin a new Direct Consolidation Loan application, a borrower will sign in to StudentLoans.gov using his or her Federal Student Aid ID and complete the steps below: Choose Loans & Servicer The applicant's federal education loan information will be retrieved from NSLDS and will populate within the application. The applicant can choose which loans to include in the consolidation. An applicant who has a loan that is still in the grace period and wants to consolidate that loan will be able to choose to delay the processing of the application until closer to the end of the grace period. An applicant will choose the federal loan servicer that he or she wants to complete the consolidation. Repayment Plan Selection An applicant will select a repayment plan. An applicant who is interested in one of the Income-Driven Repayment Plans will be considered for an Income-Driven Repayment Plan based on one's eligibility. Terms & Conditions An applicant will review terms and conditions as well as the Privacy Act notice. Borrower & Reference Information An applicant will enter address, contact, employer, and reference information. Review & Sign An applicant will review information and edit, if necessary, before signing and submitting the Federal Direct Consolidation Loan Application and Promissory Note. Once the application is submitted, the selected servicer will complete the processing and follow-up with the applicant. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Financial Aid Like Financial Aid on FacebookLike Financial Aid on Facebook Follow Financial Aid on twitterFollow Financial Aid on twitter Subscribe to Financial Aid on YouTubeSubscribe to Financial Aid on YouTube Follow Financial Aid on InstagramFollow Financial Aid on Instagram Address Texas Tech University | Student Financial Aid & Scholarships | West Hall 301 | P.O. Box 45011, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone P: 806.742.3681 | F: 806.742.0880 Email finaid.advisor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 13, 2020 1:02 PM Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Calculating Costs Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Cost to Attend Net Cost Calculator Find My Financial Aid & Scholarship Advisor Red Raider Guarantee Study Abroad Types of Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Scholarships Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Back For Continuing Students Incoming Freshmen Incoming Transfer External Scholarship Search Grants Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) TEXAS Grant TTU Grant Federal TEACH Grant Student Employment Loans Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Student Athletes Requirements & Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Verification Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Financial Aid Forms Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Special Circumstances Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Special Circumstances Dependency Change Cost of Attendance Review Satisfactory Academic Progress View/Accept Financial Aid Borrower Resources Financial Aid Borrower Resources Back Loan Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Loan Options Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Understanding Loans Financial Aid Borrower Resources Understanding Loans Back Borrowed Assistance Financial Awareness Counseling Understanding Interest Leave of Absence or Graduation Grace Period Loan Servicer Common Loan Definition & Glossary Repayment Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Repayment Options Back Federal Loan Exit Counseling Repaying your Loans Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Consumer Information Financial Aid Back Consumer Information Planning and Assessment Policy and Procedure U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability & Transparency Center Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index