Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computer Science Instruction Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computer Science Instruction Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Computer Science Instruction Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Instruction Develop the necessary skills to teach computer science at the secondary level with the Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Instruction in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University. Computer science is a critically important, highly competitive discipline that has grown exponentially in recent years. However, the U.S. faces a shortage of qualified computer science teachers. This 12-credit graduate certificate program is specifically designed for current math and science teachers to help meet the growing demand for computer science and information technology instruction in secondary schools. Through the innovative curriculum, you’ll form a thorough understanding of foundational concepts in computer science and pedagogical strategies for broadening participation in the classroom. You’ll also produce a well-developed portfolio of instructional materials that you can use to teach computer science concepts in secondary education classrooms. Pennsylvania State Certification Graduates of the program already certified to teach in secondary education will be prepared to take the Praxis Computer Science Subject Test, required by the Pennsylvania Department of Education, to become certified to teach computer science in Pennsylvania public schools. Delivery Method All in-person courses in the Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Instruction program are held on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. Coursework can be completed over four continuous semesters (including the summer semester) so you can earn the certificate in 15 months. Courses in the fall and spring semesters are offered online to allow in-service teachers to complete classes during the academic year, with intensive, short-term courses offered on campus during the summer. Classes & Curriculum The Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Instruction curriculum comprises the following four required courses. Introduction to Teaching Computer Science Principles Teaching Advanced Computer Science Principles Teaching Networked Computing Systems Teaching the Use of Data, Algorithms and Creativity for Problem Solving Learn more about Computer Science Instruction Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS Accomplished Teaching MSEd* Education PhD* *College of Education and Human Development Careers Graduates of the Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Instruction program are prepared to continue their careers as professional educators, with the added opportunity to teach computer science, one of the fastest-growing sectors in the U.S. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Advisors can assist you with course scheduling and navigating the certificate program. Anthony Hughes is a graduate advisor for the Department of Computer and Information Sciences and program contact for the Graduate Certificate in Computer Science Instruction. Phone: 215-204-7910 Email: anthony.hughes@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-COSI-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Computer Science Instruction Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info