Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Brett Dalton Brett Dalton Chief Business Officer Brett Dalton Chief Business Officer Mr. Dalton was appointed chief business officer, a new position at Baylor, effective July 1. In that capacity, he leads progressive systems of financial planning, reporting, and control for the University, while also overseeing operations, facilities, information technology and various strategic partnerships. He previously served as executive vice president of finance and operations at Clemson University, where he managed the institution’s $1.2 billion budget and provided leadership and management of the university’s strategic planning, resource planning and utilization, and strategic partnerships and programs. During Mr. Dalton’s tenure at Clemson, the institution moved from a third-tier ranking to a Top 25-ranked public university, achieved an R1 Carnegie classification, and completed the university’s first $1 billion capital campaign. He also successfully co-led the development of Clemson’s strategic plan, oversaw more than $800 million in capital projects, and achieved and maintained the highest bond rating in the history of the university. From 1996 to 2007, Mr. Dalton was executive assistant for finance and administration to the vice president for academic affairs and provost, where he managed financial, human, and space resources for the entire academic portfolio of the university. In this position, he helped the university seamlessly integrate the finance and operations division and the academic community at Clemson, working collaboratively to achieve the mission, vision, and goals of the university. Mr. Dalton earned both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in economics from Clemson. He and his wife, Lisa, have a 15-year-old son, Stewart. Their daughter, Mattie, is a 2018 graduate of Clemson. More Information Budget Office Enrollment Management Facility Planning & Construction Services Financial Services Ignite Information Technology Services Investments Real Estate Operations and Campus Services Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor