Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Coronavirus Updates Campus Protocols Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Health Resources Campus Protocols Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Resources Coronavirus Research FAQs Health Resources Campus Protocols Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Resources Coronavirus Research FAQs Campus Protocols Faculty and staff returning to onsite work can find information about policies, protocols, preparations and support related to working onsite at the links below. If you have additional questions regarding your specific situation, please reach out to your direct supervisor or email msph_covidsupport@cumc.columbia.edu. If you have a confidential matter, please email the Office of Faculty Affairs and Human Resources at msph-hr-fac-affairs@cumc.columbia.edu. Protocols Employees are required to adhere to the University’s Compact and complete the required vaccine documentation. See the links below for specifics on prepping for your arrival. Effective March 14, indoor masking is optional. Mask-optional means that you may remove your mask indoors, starting on March 14, if you so choose, but you may of course continue to wear a mask if that is appropriate for you. This mask-optional policy does not apply to health care workers or students involved in health care or clinical activities. All faculty, staff, and students who are in direct contact with patients or in direct contact with providers who see patients shall continue to need to wear masks. Effective Monday April 11, 2022, wearing of non-cloth masks in classrooms will be required. This mandatory masking policy applies to classrooms only and is expected to remain in place for the few remaining weeks of our spring semester. Instructors have the option to remove their masks while teaching. Other helpful information: COVID-19 Public Health Protocols Columbia’s Testing Program COVID-19 Vaccine Information for CUIMC Employees and Students Daily Symptom Attestation & CU ReOpen App (Effective March 14, daily attestation is no longer required to access Columbia facilities.) Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions and the CUIMC Vaccination Attestation Tutorial CUIMC’s Returning to the Workplace, A Resource Guide (PDF) Facilities Management Website (for a list of campus enhancements) Additional Wellbeing Resources COVID-19 CUIMC Campus Safety Website Emotional & Mental Wellbeing Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion Columbia Health’s Counseling and Psychological Services CUIMC's Mental Health Services Office of the University Chaplain CopeColumbia | Columbia University Irving Medical Center More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers