Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Urban Studies Program Toggle navigation Main navigation About Quick Facts Resources Students Advising The Major Honors Urban Studies Minor Real Estate and Development Minor Urban Education Minor Graduate Certificate Graduate Fellowship Alumni Mentor Program Undergraduate Advisory Board (UAB) Student Profiles Urban Studies Awards Courses Courses by Theme Media News Events Annual Public Lecture Bodek Lectures Graduate Colloquium Public Conversation Series Past Events Fieldwork For Students For Agencies Faculty Faculty Resources Host Class Meals Faculty Profiles Alumni Urban-related Jobs Fellowship Opportunities Career Services at Penn Alumni Survey Alumni Profiles Donate Search Home Nowak Gap Year Fellowship Gap year opportunity available! The Philadelphia-based Reinvestment Fund Fellowship is offered to 2021 and 2022 graduates who plan to pursue further education. The Fellowship lasts one year, with an option for a second year and has excellent benefits including health insurance, a 401(k) savings plan and more. Deadline is June 29, 2022 at 5 p.m. EST. More Info Urban Studies Research Guide If you're looking for where to start your Urban Studies research, then look no further. Urbs librarian Deborah Bishov has created a handy Urban Studies Research guide, complete with online text resources as well as mapping tools, U.S. Census data and more. More Info Showcasing Student Work Students of Urban Research Methods [URBS 200] study the economic, social, and cultural life of a specific Philly neightborhood. See Student Work from Previous Semesters News Internships and Job Opportunities April 2022 April 18, 2022 CPCRS Research Assistant – Exhibition Curation Read More Dr. John Keene, City & Regional Planning, and Urban Studies March 24, 2022 The Urban Studies Program reports with sadness the passing of Dr. John Keene, Emeritus Professor of City and Regional Planning and long-standing member of the Urban Studies faculty. Read More Inquirer Op Ed on Redistricting by John Kromer March 16, 2022 Professor John Kromer (URBS 451, The Politics of Housing & Community Development) wrote a sensible op-ed in today's Philly Inquirer: Read More Internships and Job Opportunities March 2022 March 14, 2022 Associate/Senior Associate at Connect the Dots Read More 2022 Alumni Engagement Fellow March 8, 2022 The Urban Studies Program is pleased to announce Anna Duan, C’22, the inaugural Urban Studies Alumni Engagement Fellowship recipient for 2022! Read More The Hunger to End Hunger March 7, 2022 Check out this Penn Gazette article on Urbs alum George Matysik, currently the head of the largest hunger relief organization in the Philadelphia region: https://thepenngazet Read More Empowering community engagement through theory and practice January 11, 2022 Congratulations to Professor Marisa Denker (URBS '14) on a great first year running the Participatory Cities course, URBS 314. Read More Debbie Rabinovich, inaugural Samvid Scholar November 1, 2021 Debbie Rabinovich (URBS '19) is one of two Penn students chosen for the inaugural class of 20 Samvid Scholars. Read More Power to the Public: The Promise of Public Interest Technology October 4, 2021 Congratulations to Tara Dawson McGuinness (URBS '00) on the publication of her latest book, a blueprint for how governments and nonprofits can harness the power of digital technology to help solve… Read More 2021 Gordon Fellows September 17, 2021 This summer's cohort of Urban Studies Gordon Fellows continued in the shared goal of taking urban theory into the real world, participating in summer internships and organizing community events for… Read More Welcome Welcome to Urban Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. Urban Studies is an interdisciplinary program in the College of Arts & Sciences. It draws on faculty and resources across the university and the city to offer students a multi-faceted approach to the study of urban trends. More Spotlight Sereina Ferguson Read More Jen Chaquette Read More Julian Smyth Read More Marcus Goodwin “Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?” -Robert Browning Read More Adam Goudjil Read More Jack Park “Go home to your own people and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.” - Mark 5:19; youtu.be/ur8TZf6HWSs Read More Subscribe to our mailing list Donate Contact Us Urban Studies Program University of Pennsylvania 426 McNeil Building 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6209 urbs@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-6948 David Grazian Professor of Sociology and Communication Faculty Director, Urban Studies Program Elaine Simon, Ph.D. Co-Director, Urban Studies Program Adjunct Associate Professor in Anthropology and in the Graduate School of Education Victoria Karkov Coordinator College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn WebLogin