Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC » Retail » Bearcat Card » For Merchants Set Navigation title in component UC Bookstores Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Information for Merchants Thank you for your interest in accepting the Bearcat Card (BCC), which is a way for UC students and merchants to conduct transactions with minimal risk, greater convenience, and improved accuracy. For your benefit, we have provided answers to merchants’ most frequently asked questions of us regarding BCC. Please call our office at 556-2000 if you have any questions not covered on this site. FAQ How can I start using the Bearcat Card at my business? right arrow down arrow Contact Colleen King Complete Merchant Application form, Merchant Agreement form, ACH banking information, and W-9 to the University - include the Bearcat Card start-up fee of $250 and send to: University of Cincinnati Bearcat Card Office 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0220 Call 513-556-0433 to purchase your VeriFone card reader. Once equipment has been received, we will set it up, and call you for a convenient installation date. If you would like to use a credit card to charge the fee and/or equipment, please call the Bearcat Card desk at 513-556-2000, or the Bearcat Card manager at 513-556-0433. How long does it take until the system is running at my store? right arrow down arrow It generally takes about two weeks from the time the equipment is ordered and received. Who will train my staff to use the equipment? right arrow down arrow Our technicians or designated qualified trainers will train a reasonable number of your staff and provide written documentation on using equipment. Where do I obtain the VeriFone equipment? right arrow down arrow Contact the Bearcat Card Office at 513-556-2000. How much does the VeriFone equipment cost? right arrow down arrow The VeriFone reader that will interface with the Bearcat Card is the VX680 with a $10 monthly fee. The total cost for set-up and equipment is $250. Readers have a one-year warranty. If you are currently using a Micros system, please call us about the possibility of an interface, which can save you some money!   What should I do if my equipment is not working? right arrow down arrow Call the BCC office at 513-556-2000 or log a trouble call. Someone will promptly assist you. We will check the equipment out for you; however, the warranty on your equipment is with the merchant where we purchased the equipment, not the BCC office. If necessary, we will give you a loaner in case your equipment has to go back to the merchant for repair. The university is not liable for losses incurred for failure of the equipment to function properly. Will my business increase if I accept BCC? right arrow down arrow It is very possible that your business will increase.  More and more students are purchasing with the BCC. As more merchants sign on to participate in the program, many students will be exclusively using BCC. Students are attracted by the safety and convenience of the campus card and begin to expect that their favorite merchants will accept the card. What marketing does the university provide for my business? right arrow down arrow Merchants accepting the BCC are the beneficiaries of many free marketing efforts by the University. Once you come aboard, we announce your business as a new merchant in our monthly statements to users.  The university posts advertisements and distributes many brochures regarding BCC that include your store name and phone number. Further, UC advertises BCC at most university sponsored events. Our website, which is regularly updated, will also list merchants accepting BCC along with your web address that users can access from our site. In addition, future university promotions regarding coupons, discounts, or sweepstakes related to BCC will also likely provide information regarding participating merchants. Off-campus merchant specials are listed on the BCC website. What happens if a user lacks sufficient funds to pay for the merchandise? right arrow down arrow This program strictly involves debit transactions, so if a user does not have sufficient funds for the purchase, the transaction will automatically be denied. What happens if I accept a stolen card? right arrow down arrow If you accept a stolen card, you are not eligible for reimbursement for the sale, so staff must be trained to carefully inspect all presented cards and check if the photo on the ID matches the person. How will my business be reimbursed for sales? right arrow down arrow The university reimburses merchants by electronic deposit monthly or weekly for reported sales in the BCC system. UC deducts a 4% monthly or 5% weekly fee from the reimbursement. Merchants can check their daily BCC totals at the end of each evening from their VeriFone. Our office distributes sales daily or monthly by email. The university prepares funds for transfer the first or second working day of the month if paid monthly. Cash flow is obviously important to my business. Can I be reimbursed for sales on a weekly basis?  right arrow down arrow Some businesses elect to receive weekly electronic deposits with a 5% service fee, rather than the usual 4%. These sales are reimbursed every seven (7) days. To change the frequency of electronic deposits, please email your request to bearcatcard@uc.edu. Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top