COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Educational Leadership, Master's Master'sEducational Leadership All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s Master of Education (MEd) in educational leadership combines cohort learning and real-world experience and mentorships in school settings—helping educators take the next step in their careers as licensed school administrators, as well as preparing them to pursue a Ed.D. or Ph.D. Learn how Educational Leadership is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Basic admission requirements include: A 3.0 minimum GPA in the last 60 credit hours of coursework Submission of official college transcripts Three references Evidence of education licensure and accredited experience Professional resume and statement of goals Mentorship agreement letter from a building principal For complete admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student works to reform juvenile justice policy After several years teaching English to children in the Sedgwick County Juvenile Detention Facility, Kristi Arends felt compelled to do more. She enrolled in the Educational Leadership program, which allowed her to apply the theoretical knowledge in the classroom to practical school situations -- and eventually to become a passionate advocate for juvenile justice reform. Curriculum The MEd in educational leadership is a two-year degree program consisting of 33 credit hours—including extensive practicum experience in area schools. Students who complete this program and pass the School Leaders Licensure Assessment are eligible for Building Leadership endorsement from the Kansas Department of Education. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Learning and Instructional Design (Master's) Educational Psychology (Master's) Educational Leadership (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©