Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Menu Search TTU Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement October 11-15 The Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement invites you to join us as we celebrate Pride Week whether you identify as part of the LGBTQIA community or want to show your support through allyship. Volunteer for Pride Week Monday, October 11 Through the Years: PRIDE at Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Library (On view October 1 - 31, 2021) Pride Week Kickoff & T-Shirt Distribution Support Provided by Center for Campus Life Student Union Building - North Plaza (Outside) 11:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. (While Supplies Last) The Boots, Bows, & Rainbow Ties Gala* Ticket Sales Closed - For Last-Minute Registrations, Call (806) 742-5433 Support Provided by the Office for Student Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct Student Union Building - Ballroom 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. *Due to COVID-19, Pride Week Organizers have Elected to Reduce Tickets Sold to Facilitate Physical Distancing. Featuring Dr. Karen Blair, Trent University, Ontario, Canada "I Wanna Hold Your Hand - But - Is It Safe? Experiences of Public Affection Sharing in Same-Sex Versus Mixed-Sex Relationship" Affection sharing is one of our most basic forms of human communication. The hand on the small of a back, a head leaning on a shoulder, a hug, or a squeeze around the knuckles can communicate support, love, compassion and so much more, but not everyone feels equally free to share such forms of affection with their partner in front of onlookers. While everyone varies in their personal preferences and levels of comfort when it comes to PDAs (Public Displays of Affection), individuals in socially marginalized relationships often feel that even the most mundane forms of affection sharing are ‘off-limits' due to the potential for unwanted consequences. Indeed, although civil rights for LGBTQ individuals have been steadily increasing over the last two decades, in many jurisdictions, anti-LGBTQ hate crimes have also been increasing. Anti-LGBTQ hate crimes are more likely to be violent than other forms of hate crimes and are not infrequently precipitated by some form of affection sharing between members of a same-sex or gender-diverse couple. While the media is replete with such stories, in this talk I will explore empirical data collected that demonstrates the toll that social prejudices can take on the ability of those in same-sex and gender-diverse relationships to share the simplest of affections with each other while in public. While the notion of holding hands in public may, for some, seem like a rather inconsequential activity that one can either take or leave according to their own personal preferences, the ability to view affection sharing as a personal preference rather than a socially-regulated and controlled behavior belies the true experiences of many for whom the very thought of sharing affection in public leads to vigilance and concerns for safety. Special Performance by Guest Artist and Slam Poet, Regie Cabico. Tuesday, October 12 Tie Dye Versity Organized by Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Red Raider Plaza 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. IGNITE! Texas Tech's Program for LGBTQIA Allyship "Femmephobia 101: Exploring and Challenging Rules, Norms and Assumptions About Femininity" Zoom 2:00 - 3:15 p.m. Register for IGNITE! Femmephobia 101 Featuring Dr. Karen Blair, Trent University, Dr. Rhea Ashley Hoskin, University of Waterloo, and Dr. Jocelyne Bartram Scott, Bucknell University What comes to mind when you think of femininity? When you meet a feminine person, what assumptions do you make about them? What assumptions do you feel others make about your own femininity? Have you ever tried to distance yourself from feminine traits or people? In this workshop participants will learn to identify the norms, rules, and assumptions surrounding femininity as well as who is impacted by them. By considering whose femininity is societally acceptable and the limits of femininity's acceptability, workshop attendees will build a collective understanding of femme and feminine-of-center experiences as well as the broader impact of femmephobia. We will discuss the role and impact of femmephobia in our daily lives as well as brainstorm how we can interrupt femmephobia in ourselves and others through everyday interventions. Ultimately, participants will develop an understanding of the relationship between patriarchy, the gender binary, and femmephobia. Together, workshop attendees will learn the importance of disrupting femmephobia to meet intersectional social justice agendas, particularly those aimed at improving sexuality and gender identity equity and inclusion. Queer Reels, Real Topics Film Screening Featuring Indianara (2019) Student Union Building - Escondido Theater 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. Register for Queer Reels Screening Poetry Slam Participant Workshop Optional Student Union Building - Mesa Room 8:00 - 10:00 p.m. Facilitated by Guest Artist Regie Cabico Wednesday, October 13 Coming Out Stories Organized by Tech Gender & Sexuality Association In-Person: Human Sciences 111 Virtual: https://zoom.us/j/91534190428 6:00 - 7:30 p.m. For LGBTQIA+ folks, coming out is a process that can be both frightening and liberating at the same time. Hosted by Tech Gender & Sexuality Association, this year's annual Coming Out Stories program invites all LGBTQIA and allied members of the Texas Tech community to share their coming out experiences, bond, and give/receive coming out tips and advice! Whether you want to share your story or just take in the moment and offer some snaps of support, this space is here to support you! Pride Week Poetry Slam Student Union Building - Ballroom 8:00 - 10:00 p.m. Poetry Slam Information and Rules Register for Poetry Slam Featuring Guest Artist and Slam Poet, Regie Cabico Thursday, October 14 IGNITE! Texas Tech's Program for LGBTQIA Allyship Creating LGBTQIA Allyship Action Plans Zoom 2:00 - 3:15 p.m. Register for IGNITE! Creating Allyship Action Plans Practicing allyship involves taking action to change our surroundings at the interpersonal and institutional levels. During this workshop, participants will examine the social and work spaces they navigate on a day-to-day basis and develop allyship action plans for promoting greater LGBTQIA inclusion in those spaces. LGBTQIA Faculty, Staff, and Graduate Student Association (FSGSA) Happy Hour and GAYme Night Burklee Hill Vineyards, 1109 Broadway Avenue 5:30 - 7:00 p.m. RSVP for FSGSA Happy Hour and GAYme Night Join the LGBTQIA Faculty, Staff, and Graduate Student Association (FSGSA) for appetizers, drinks, and pride-themed games (bingo, trivia, etc.). Learn more about the LGBTQIA FSGSA online. Friday, October 15 Virtual Gender & Sexual Identities Colloquium Organized by Women's & Gender Studies Keynote: 12:00 p.m. Register for the Colloquium Featuring Dr. Stevie Berberick, Assistant Professor of Communication Arts and Gender and Women's Studies, Washington and Jefferson College, Washington, PA. Dr. Berberick's first monograph, "Reframing Sex: Unlearning the Gender Binary with Trans Masculine YouTube Vloggers", was released in November of 2020. The book is an exploration of both mainstream and independent media. Grounded in qualitative methods, Reframing Sex explores three trans masculine run YouTube channels through virtual ethnography and places the content of these channels in conversation with corporate streaming productions: The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina, Orange is the New Black, and Transparent. Miss Glamour & Fame: Texas Tech's Pride Week Drag Pageant Club Luxor, 2211 Marsha Sharp Freeway 7:00 - 9:30 p.m. Register to Compete in Glamour & Fame Featuring Guest Entertainer Shantell D'Marco, Miss Continental (2017), this annual pageant features incredible drag performers from Texas Tech and throughout west Texas. Tickets will be sold at the door beginning at 6:30 p.m. All proceeds from the pageant will benefit Tech Gender & Sexuality Association. Sponsors Presenting Sponsor Center for Campus Life Major Sponsors Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Honors College Office for Student Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) School of Law Student Affairs University Student Housing Champion Sponsor Student Government Association (SGA) Like Facebook on FacebookLike Facebook on Facebook Facebook Follow Instagram on InstagramFollow Instagram on Instagram Instagram Follow Twitter on twitterFollow Twitter on twitter Twitter Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Like Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement on FacebookLike Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement on Facebook Follow Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement on twitterFollow Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement on twitter Follow Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement on InstagramFollow Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement on Instagram Address Student Union Building Room 201, Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806-742-5433 Email campuslife.lgbtqia@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 15, 2021 10:03 AM Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Community Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Students Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back General Student Programming Student Organizations First-Year and Queer/Trans Space (FAQTS) Queer Reads Queer/Trans Students of Color (QTSOC) Sweet Tea-ology (Interfaith Affinity Space) Group Therapy LGBTQIA+ All Recovery Meeting Faculty & Staff Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back General Faculty & Staff Resources Faculty, Staff, & Graduate Student Association Alumni South Plains Community Signature Programs Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Peer Education Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back IGNITE! Texas Tech's Program for LGBTQIA Allyship LGBTQIA Peer Educators Program Queer Reels, Real Topics Pride Week Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Pride Week 2021 Glamour & Fame Pageant Big 12 LGBTQIA & Allies Summit Lavender Graduation Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Lavender Graduation 2022 The Ted Jim Dotts, Jr. and Betty Shewbert Dotts Ally of the Year Awareness Programs Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Transgender Day of Remembrance (November) World AIDS Day Transgender Day of Visibility (March) Archival/ Oral History Project Resources Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Allyship and LGBTQIA Identities Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Gender Unicorn Identity Umbrellas Avenues of Attraction Coming Out Basics of Allyship LGBTQIA Flags Campus and Community Resources Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Campus Resources Community Resources National Resources Scholarships Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back David Sassano Pride Scholarship LGBTQIA Leadership/Service Scholarship RenewPR LGBTQIA Endowed Scholarship Watland/Woody LGBTQIA Endowed Scholarship About Us Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Power Team Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Meet the Power Team Job Opportunities eCheers Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Subscribe to our Newsletter Post Research to our Newsletter Support Us Office of LGBTQIA Education & Engagement Back Volunteer LGBTQIA Fund Wishlist Campus Climate Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index