Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Orchestral Music Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Orchestral Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Orchestral Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Orchestral Music Undergraduate Certificate Enhance your performance experience and knowledge of orchestral music with the Orchestral Music Undergraduate Certificate from Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 14-credit undergraduate certificate is available to any currently enrolled Temple University student seeking to supplement their degree with further study of orchestral music and performance. Your academic experiences will range from taking private lessons to performing with large ensembles and learning the basics of music theory. Take a series of courses in Temple’s Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts, and experience the expressive depth of orchestral performance firsthand. The center hosts artistic and cultural events throughout the year, providing Orchestral Music Certificate students enriching opportunies that are unique to Temple and the city of Philadelphia. Undergraduate students interested in the Orchestral Music Undergraduate Certificate must be in good standing and have completed at least 15 credits at Temple University by the initial requested semester of certificate coursework. Classes & Curriculum The Orchestral Music Undergraduate Certificate will be acknowledged on your official transcript at the time you receive your bachelor's degree provided that you successfully complete all required courses with a grade of C- or better. Required courses include Applied Lesson-Instrumental, Ensemble, Instrumental Ensemble and Topics in Music Theory. Learn more about the Orchestral Music Undergraduate Certificate courses. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Ensembles Instrumental Ensembles Boyer students have opportunities to perform in more than 10 instrumental ensembles, made up of bands, orchestras and more. Ensembles include the Boyer College Electroacoustic Ensemble Project, which creates electroacoustic music in a collaborative environment. It functions as an electronic music band, a fusion of computers and traditional instruments, and a laptop orchestra. Chamber Orchestra, which performs larger chamber works in a true chamber music setting. The Chamber Orchestra generally performs one concert per semester and on occasion has joined with the Temple University Concert Choir in a combined performance. Diamond Marching Band, which performs at athletic events throughout the academic year, including traditional pregame shows and varied halftime shows throughout the season. The “Pride of the Cherry and White” marching band performs at all home games and also travels to select away games. Opera Orchestra, which accompanies Opera Theater each semester in a fully staged production. Percussion Ensemble, which provides a quality educational chamber music experience for its members, promotes the performance of percussion literature in a variety of styles, and encourages the composition of new works for the medium. Symphony Orchestra, an orchestra composed of undergraduate and graduate students. The orchestra has performed in recent years at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia, as well as Carnegie Hall and the Lincoln Center. Wind Symphony, an ensemble that comprises advanced graduate and undergraduate musicians and performs at least six formal concerts throughout the academic year. Learn more about instrumental studies ensembles and other Boyer ensembles. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Ed Flanagan, associate dean for student affairs, is the faculty contact for the Orchestral Music Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-9399 Email: flanagan@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-ORMU-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Orchestral Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info