Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit MBA Programs Prepare to become a global leader with the right MBA program for you. Home Graduate MBA The Miami MBA is your launch pad for career success. With full-time, part-time, online, and executive options, all of the Miami MBA degrees offer fantastic opportunities to invest in yourself and level up your leadership skills. With our world-class faculty, innovative curriculum, global perspective, expertise in sustainability, and hands-on experience, we develop the principled leaders in high demand for the 21st century. Miami MBA Degree Programs Full-Time MBA Named one of the world’s best MBA programs,* the Miami MBA is designed to give you the hands-on opportunities you need to advance your career or switch careers entirely. You’ll gain an executive’s perspective with the skills needed to make effective decisions in any role, in any organization, in any industry. *Wall Street Journal, 2018 Miami MBA Program Details Accelerated MBA Earn one of the world’s best MBAs* in seven months. You not only gain the business fundamental and leadership skills that employers demand, you also have the opportunity to apply them via Global Business Consulting, the Student Managed Investment Fund, the Business Plan Competition, and other real-world experiences you’ll only find at Miami Herbert Business School. *Wall Street Journal, 2018 Accelerated MBA Program Details Online MBA Designed to reflect the uniquely multicultural and future-focused perspective of the city itself, the online MBA program from the University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School empowers you to transform global business and build deep connections within Miami’s thriving ecosystem—all without putting your career on hold. Online MBA Program Details Accelerated MBA in Real Estate The Accelerated Real Estate MBA combines the expertise of Miami Herbert Business School with the School of Architecture, a leader in new urbanism. You’ll learn from global real estate leaders, strengthen your business foundation with a real estate focus, and have the opportunity for two paid internships while earning your MBA in only 19 months. Accelerated Real Estate MBA Program Details Executive MBA programs for Experienced Leaders Miami Global Executive MBA Earn your degree, build your network, and hone your strengths as a global business leader no matter where you call home. Our hybrid format Global Executive MBA is designed to help established professionals, small business owners, and family business executives accelerate career growth. Miami Global Executive MBA Program Details Executive MBA for Health Management and Policy The Executive MBA for Health Management and Policy prepares you for leadership in health care and health-related organizations. Whether you currently work in the health care industry, or aspire to, this program will give you the career boost you need to take on leadership positions by combining practical administrative skills with broad strategic and theoretical perspectives. Executive Health MBA Program Details Global OneMBA OneMBA is a unique global consortium of world-leading business schools in multiple countries. Through a mix of online coursework and residencies in Europe, Latin America, Asia, and North America, you can develop a global mindset and make global connections to accelerate your career growth. Global OneMBA® Program Details Professional MBA programs Evening and Weekend MBA Program On Campus Earn your Master in Business Administration without compromising your work schedule. The Professional MBA from Miami Herbert Business School meets Saturday mornings and Monday evenings, allowing you to apply what you learn to your job today and transform your career tomorrow. Evening and Weekend MBA Program Details Online MBA Earn your MBA online in a customized learning environment. You’ll learn from the same exceptional faculty that teach on campus. Online MBA Program Details Joint Degree MBA Programs BArch/MBA The Bachelor of Architecture/Master of Business Administration is a joint venture with the University’s School of Architecture. You can earn two degrees in six years (instead of seven) through this program. Business classes start in the fourth year of the architecture degree. BArch/MBA Program Details MD/MBA The MD/MBA dual degree program, in partnership with the University’s Miller School of Medicine, prepares future physicians for the business complexities related to running a private medical practice or heading a group practice. Prepare for your career in health management, leadership, and policy by adding a year to the four-year medical school curriculum. MD/MBA Program Details JD/MBA Enroll in the JD/MBA dual-degree program to earn both degrees in less time. Sixteen shared credit hours reduce your overall course load, while the double degree can accelerate your career in highly-regulated fields like finance or health care. JD/MBA Program Details JD/LLM/MBA If you were an undergraduate business major, you can earn three more degrees in just four years and prepare for leadership roles at banks, real estate companies, or financial institutions. Success in this triple program will be a significant asset in today’s competitive marketplace. JD/LLM/MBA Program Details PhD/MBA Learn managerial skills, business acumen, and financial literacy that will amplify your success while managing labs, staff, grants, or even starting a business. A joint PhD/MBA prepares you for roles as diverse as college president, entrepreneur, government official, patent holder, or CEO. You’ll leave Miami Herbert Business School as a cutting-edge scientist ready to take on any leadership challenge. PhD/MBA Program Details Start Your Miami Journey Apply Request Information Visit Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback