Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Faculty and Research Degree Programs Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate)College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate)Addiction Counseling (MS)Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS)Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS)School Counseling (MS)Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Mission Statement Current Students Practicum & Internship Links to Counseling Resources General Campus Contacts Student Wellbeing and Evaluation Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Practicum & Internship Practicum & Internship Coordinator Pamela Cogdal, PhD LCP-HSP, ACS Ball Hall 100B 901.678.4931 pcogdal@memphis.edu Clinical/Fieldwork Forms can be found here>. Each of the degree programs in the Counseling Division require clinical practice rotations in the form of practicum and internship. Your supervised field experiences (i.e., practicum and internship) are crucial developmental steps in one's professional preparation. Students in the Counseling Division's programs concentrate their experiences in community settings such as the university-wide Interprofessional Community Health Clinic (ICHC), community mental health centers, community agencies, or hospitals; in city, county or private schools; or higher education settings. These clinical experiences are intended to assist students in the integration of knowledge learned in other academic experiences as well as to develop their clinical skills. Requirements for sites vary by program emphasis area. It is the responsibility of the student to: follow established procedures for application and enrollment in Practicum/Internship courses, to be familiar with site policies for clinical placements, to know program requirements, licensure/certification requirements, and complete all forms by stated deadlines. Regardless of program area, all practicum and internship experiences are governed by the Clinical Practice Internship Manual. The manual is required reading for all practicum and internship candidates. Additionally, all students entering both practicum and internship must sign the "Have Read Rights and Responsibilities" located in the manual prior to practicum or internship class attendance. Additionally, all candidates must have personal professional liability insurance activated at the onset and through the duration of their practicum and internship experiences. Documentation of the current liability insurance must be turned in for their student files prior to seeing clients. School Counseling students must also complete all security clearance procedures before working on school sites with children. School Counseling students are subject to Tennessee Bureau of Investigation background checks. Information regarding This is a College of Education and State mandate. Other sites may also require criminal background checks. Students entering the program with criminal histories should consult with credentialing agencies and state licensure boards to determine how such issues may impact their ability to become certified and/or licensed in their respective areas. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.