Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Who wants to go for a ride? UC shares connections with nonprofit that trains service dogs By Michael Miller Email MichaelEmail Michael 513-556-6757 May 27, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Full Gallery UC College of Engineering and Applied Science alumnus Gary Hellmann holds one of the puppies he helps train at 4 Paws for Ability. Photo/Provided That struck another UC alumnus, Gary Hellmann, as a nice coincidence when he began volunteering at the nonprofit to train service dogs to help clients with medical conditions or developmental disabilities. Hellmann is a 1974 graduate of UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, where he learned from NASA astronaut and UC aerospace engineering professor Neil Armstrong, the first man to walk on the moon. Hellmann recalls he got an “A” in the class. Hellmann watched the puppies clamber around inside the molded plastic cars with a little amusement at the many connections the nonprofit has to UC. Like Hellmann, many UC students volunteer for 4 Paws for Ability, taking service dogs with them to class on UC’s campuses so they are exposed to a variety of new people and situations. To introduce the puppies to novel experiences, they have the youngest puppies explore the little yellow and red Cozy Coupes. “We work with the puppies on a few basic commands like sit, down and high-five and help them learn how to go up and down stairs and ramps,” Hellmann said. “We want to introduce them to new experiences and different sights and sounds. The Cozy Coupe is a little confined, so they’re a little more hesitant about getting in and out.” Full Gallery UC College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning alumnus Jim Mariol designed the Cozy Coupe for toymaker Little Tikes. Photo/Mariol Family Coupe creator Mariol was an industrial design student in UC’s College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning when he was hired as a co-op to sketch automotive designs at Chrysler. After just three years at UC, Mariol was drafted to serve in the U.S. Army during the Korean War. Full Gallery The charity 4 Paws for Ability introduces puppies to new experiences with toys like the Cozy Coupe designed by UC alumnus Jim Mariol. Photo/Gary Hellmann After his service, he started his own design consulting company in Cincinnati. That’s when he began working on a car for toddlers that has become an American classic. “When I was a kid, I always wanted a pedal car. I remember seeing them in the department store, but Mom and Pop could never really afford one of those. So I thought this is the time to design one,” Mariol said in a 2009 interview. Mariol died in 2020. In 1976, he approached Ohio toy company Little Tikes about his idea and soon they were making a prototype that would sell more than 20 million units around the world. Today, it comes in varieties like ice-cream truck, princess and ladybug along with the classic red and yellow version that has graced driveways and sidewalks for generations. “I get a kick out of seeing Cozy Coupes all over the place,” Mariol said. It’s just one of dozens of toys Mariol designed in his career. “Maybe it’s because of growing up during the Great Depression,” Mariol said. “I didn’t have many toys. I had them in my head.” Full Gallery The charity 4 Paws for Ability uses a toy designed by UC alumnus Jim Mariol to give puppies novel experiences. Photo/Gary Hellmann Lynn Williams, training director for the charity 4 Paws for Ability, said her group has been working with UC students since 2017. New volunteers are welcome, she said. “We teach the dogs basic manners, socialization. The students take them everywhere,” she said. “We typically place dogs around eight weeks. They come back for advanced training at one year.” Hellmann, an engineering analysis student at UC, co-oped at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base’s Foreign Technology Division near Dayton, Ohio. But his bosses there were not a fan of his long locks, which were all the rage in the 1970s. He found a new passion in wind tunnel and flight testing and never looked back. “Some of the technology I worked on ended up in commercial and military airplanes,” he said. After his retirement, he began volunteering for 4 Paws. Hellmann said it makes him happy to contribute his time to working with puppies. Some of his most recent recruits were named for astronauts in the Apollo missions, including a Labrador retriever mix named Armstrong. “I’ve seen videos and testimonials of the difference these dogs make in people’s lives,” Hellmann said. “It’s just amazing.” Featured image at top: The nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability uses toys like Little Tikes' Cozy Coupe to introduce puppies to new experiences while training to be a service dog. Photo/Gary Hellmann Become a Bearcat Whether you’re a first-generation student or from a family of Bearcats, UC is proud to support you at every step along your journey. We want to make sure you succeed — and feel right at home. Apply today. Tags Alumni Association College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Innovation Agenda Student Experience Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Next Lives Here College of Engineering and Applied Science Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top