Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES PSYCHOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PSYCH 101 Introduction to Psychology (5) I&S Ann Culligan, Lauren Graham, Tabitha Kirkland Surveys major areas of psychological science. Core topics include human social behavior, personality, psychological disorders and treatment, learning, memory, human development, biological influences, and research methods. Related topics may include sensation, perception, states of consciousness, thinking, intelligence, language, motivation, emotion, stress and health, cross-cultural psychology, and applied psychology. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 101 PSYCH 200 Comparative Animal Behavior (3-5) NW Research methods and findings of comparative animal behavior, their importance to an understanding of human behavior; rationale for study of behavioral differences/similarities between animal species, behavior viewed as part of adaptation of each species to its natural habitat. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 300. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 200 PSYCH 201 Psychology of Performance Enhancement (4) I&S Applications of psychological theories, research, and intervention strategies to performance enhancement in variety of life settings. Self-regulation models and techniques; stress and emotional control; attention control and concentration; mental rehearsal; time management; goal-setting; memory enhancement; communication and interpersonal conflict resolution. Participation in various psychological training procedures. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 201 PSYCH 202 Biopsychology (5) NW Ann Culligan, Lauren Graham, Jeansok J Kim Examines the biological basis of behavior, the nervous system, how it works to control behavior and sense the world, and what happens when it malfunctions. Topics include learning and memory, development, sex, drugs, sleep, the senses, emotions, and mental disorders. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 202 PSYCH 203 Introduction to Personality and Individual Differences (4) I&S Jonathon D Brown Overview of the major theories, research findings, and applications in the scientific study of personality. Covers research methods and approaches to measuring personality variables. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 303. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 203 PSYCH 205 Behavior Disorders (5) I&S Examines the bio-psycho-social origins of behavioral disorders. Topics include theories of etiology, developmental perspectives of behavior disorders, and assessment and diagnosis of the most common behavioral disorders. Note: not open for credit for students who have taken PSYCH 305. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 101. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 205 PSYCH 206 Human Development (5) I&S Theoretical perspectives and research methods in child development with an overview of historical and current works. Includes prenatal and biological development, the development of cognitive, linguistic, and social and emotional abilities. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 306. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 206 PSYCH 208 Happiness (5) I&S T. Turowski How can lives be fulfilling, joyful, and meaningful? Through reading, discussion, and hands-on activities, explores the theme that happiness stems from social connections and contribution to something larger than oneself. Also explores practical strategies for nurturing personal happiness by improving social and emotional health. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101; recommended: PSYCH 209 Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 208 PSYCH 209 Fundamentals of Psychological Research (5) Laura Little, Michael W Passer, Ann Culligan, Tabitha Kirkland, Lauren Graham Psychological research methodology and techniques. Topics include the logic of hypothesis testing, experimental design, research strategies and techniques, fundamentals of scientific writing, search and evaluation of research literature in psychology, and ethical issues in psychological research. Required for all psychology majors. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 101. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 209 PSYCH 210 The Diversity of Human Sexuality (5) I&S, DIV Nicole K McNichols Considers biological, psychological, and socio-cultural determinants of human sexuality and sexual behavior, and how their interaction leads to diverse expressions of sexuality, sexual bonding, gender orientation, reproductive strategies, and physical and psychological sexual development. Topics include cultural appraisal of sexuality, sexual health and reproduction (pregnancy, contraception, abortion), and sexual abuse and assault. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 210 PSYCH 222 Current Topics in Psychology (3-5, max. 10) I&S Topics of current interest, such as the psychology of happiness, psychology of friendship, technology and relationships, and developments in brain and behavior science. Choice of topics depends on instructor and class interest. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101 Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 222 PSYCH 245 Introduction to Social Psychology (5) I&S Tabitha Kirkland, Jonathon D Brown Overview of major findings of social psychology, emphasizing the relevance for understanding the social behaviors of individuals and groups of individuals and their relationship to social context. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 345. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 245 PSYCH 250 Racism and Minority Groups (5) I&S, DIV Overview of the causes, contexts, and consequences of racism and its effects upon minority groups and society. Emphasis on cultural history, political and socioeconomic structures that contribute to racism. Examination of current issues in race relations and cultural pluralism in the United States and selected international topics. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 250 PSYCH 257 Psychology of Gender (5) I&S, DIV Ann Culligan Major psychological theories of gender-role development; biological and environmental influences that determine and maintain gender differences in behavior; roles in children and adults; topics include aggression, cognitive abilities, achievement motivation, affiliation. Offered: jointly with GWSS 257; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 257 PSYCH 291 Principles of Applied Animal Behavior (3-5) NW Further explores the basic principles of animal behavior, and related disciplines, with particular emphasis on application to human-animal interaction and issues. Introduces the primary literature in applied animal behavior. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 291 PSYCH 292 Applied Animal Behavior in Practice (3-5) NW Integrates animal behavior theory with real-world practice to resolve practical problem in human-animal interactions, including companion animals, captive animals, and livestock. Introduces the primary clinical literature in applied animal behavior. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 292 PSYCH 298 Graduate School Exploration for Psychology Majors (2) Provides an overview of graduate school options available in psychology, counseling, and research. Topics include researching programs, writing statements of purpose and resumes, standardized testing, letters of recommendation, and interviewing techniques. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 298 PSYCH 299 Psychology Transfer Academic Community (2) Provides opportunity for transfer students new to or contemplating the psychology major to experience an in- depth orientation to the department, curriculum, and resources available to undergraduates. Students meet weekly to explore ways to effectively engage in the major and expand their understanding of the academic discipline. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 299 PSYCH 300 Animal Behavior (5) NW Joseph A. Sisneros Introduces important concepts and empirical findings in animal behavior. Emphasizes evolutionary and mechanistic approaches to understanding diversity and complexity of behavior. Topics include communication, mating, migration, and sociality. Prerequisite: either BIOL 118, BIOL 161, or BIOL 180. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 300 PSYCH 302 Neuroscience of the Mind (5) NW S. Mizumori Capacity for flexible neural processing changes across the lifespan, and may go awry in disorders of mental health and behavioral control. Provides a fundamental understanding of the dynamic, often reciprocal, relationship between brain neuroplasticity and a variety of complex behaviors (e.g. learning, memory, decision, language), including their modulation by social factors, development, aging, disease, and brain injury. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101; PSYCH 202; PSYCH 209 Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 302 PSYCH 303 Personality (5) I&S Overview of major perspectives, scientific issues, applications, and research findings in the area of personality. Direct exposure to scientific literature, writing assignments, and research-based class experiences prepare students for advanced work in personality, social, abnormal, and developmental psychology. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in each of PSYCH 101; PSYCH 202; and PSYCH 209. Instructors: Brown View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 303 PSYCH 305 Abnormal Psychology (5) I&S An overview of major categories of psychopathology, including description and classification, theoretical models, and recent research on etiology and treatment. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; 2.0 in PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 305 PSYCH 306 Developmental Psychology (5) I&S Betty Repacholi Overview of past and present theoretical and research-based approaches to biological, cognitive, and social development from the prenatal period to early adolescence. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; 2.0 in PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 306 PSYCH 315 Understanding Statistics in Psychology (5) QSR Geoffrey M Boynton, Laura Little, Brian P Flaherty, Dana C Nelson Statistics for psychological research. Elementary probability theory, hypothesis testing, and estimation. Satisfies the statistics requirement for majors registered in the psychology Bachelor of Arts degree program. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209; 2.0 in either MATH 111, MATH 112, MATH 120, MATH 124, or MATH 144. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 315 PSYCH 317 Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Psychology (5) QSR Laura Little Probability theory as a model for scientific inference. Probabilistic variables and experimental outcomes, conditional probability, binomial and related distributions, experiments as samples, statistics and sampling distributions, the normal distribution, confidence intervals, problems of estimation from experiments. Prerequisite: minimum 2.5 grade in PSYCH 209; 2.0 in either MATH 124, MATH 134, or MATH 144. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 317 PSYCH 318 Statistical Inference in Psychological Research (5) QSR Laura Little Hypothesis testing: probabilistic and statistical basis. Development and application of statistical inference techniques employed in psychological research: confidence intervals, t-test, ANOVA, and correlation and regression. Nature and control of experimental and inferential error in research. Required for majors for psychology BS degree. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 317. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 318 PSYCH 322 Introduction to Drugs and Behavior (3) NW Basic concepts of drug action emphasizing the behavioral consequences of the intake of a variety of drugs. Prerequisite: PSYCH 202. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 322 PSYCH 330 Laboratory in Animal Behavior (5) NW Experience with a variety of animal species and experimental procedures and instrumentation. Prerequisite: either minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 315, or 2.0 in PSYCH 317; 2.0 in PSYCH 209. Instructors: Brenowitz View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 330 PSYCH 331 Laboratory in Human Cognition (5) I&S Selected aspects of human cognition, perception, and performance. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209; either 2.0 in PSYCH 315, or 2.0 in PSYCH 317. Instructors: Joslyn View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 331 PSYCH 332 Neurobehavioral Lab (5) NW David Henry Gire Explores the neural mechanisms of behavior via neuropharmacological and neuroanatomical approaches. Includes the ethics and regulation of animal experimentation. Prerequisite: either minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 315, or 2.0 in PSYCH 317. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 332 PSYCH 333 Sensory and Perceptual Processes (5) NW Geoffrey M Boynton, Ellen Covey, Ione Fine An overview of each of the major senses with emphasis on the structure and function of sensory systems and the relation of the underlying biology to perceptual processes and behavior. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; 2.0 in PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 333 PSYCH 334 Laboratory in Social Psychology (5) I&S Methodology of laboratory and field research on social behavior; data analysis and report writing; research projects. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209; minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 315 or PSYCH 317; minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 245 or PSYCH 345. Instructors: Cheryan View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 334 PSYCH 345 Social Psychology (5) I&S Milla Titova, Cheryl Kaiser, Nicole K McNichols, Jonathon D Brown, Tabitha Kirkland The scientific study of how people's thoughts, feelings, and actions influence, and are influenced by, other people. Prerequisite: a minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in PSYCH 209. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 345 PSYCH 350 Honors Research Seminar in Psychology (2-, max. 4) Chantel Prat Presentations by professors and advanced students concerning the rationale, methodology, and progress of their research projects; assistance with research projects; preparation of junior paper. Four credits of PSYCH 350 required for all junior Honors candidates in conjunction with PSYCH 498 and PSYCH 499. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 350 PSYCH 355 Cognitive Psychology (5) I&S Susan L JOSLYN, Adrian Andelin Current theory and research in perception, attention, memory and learning, attitudes, thinking and decision making, and language. For the student who wishes a survey or who intends additional work in any of the above content areas. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in PSYCH 202; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in PSYCH 209. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 355 PSYCH 357 Psychobiology of Women (5) NW, DIV Kenney Physiological and psychological aspects of women's lives; determinants of biological sex; physiological and psychological events of puberty; menopause; sexuality; contraception, pregnancy, childbirth, and lactation; role of culture in determining psychological response to physiological events. Offered: jointly with GWSS 357. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 357 PSYCH 399 Foreign Study (3-5, max. 10) Upper division psychology courses for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents taken through the UW Study Abroad program. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 399 PSYCH 400 Learning (5) I&S/NW Experimental research and basic theories primarily in animal learning. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 400 PSYCH 402 Infant Behavior and Development (3/5) I&S Psychological development in the first two years of life. Basic and advanced techniques for assessing psychological development in infancy. Classic theories of human infancy and examination of a wide range of new experiments about infant behavior and development. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 206, PSYCH 306 or PSYCH 414. Instructors: Meltzoff View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 402 PSYCH 403 Motivation (5) I&S/NW Theory and research on reinforcement, punishment, frustration, preference, instinctual mechanisms, and other factors controlling animal behavior. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 403 PSYCH 407 History of Psychology (5) I&S Historical and theoretical background of the basic assumptions and research methodologies of modern psychology and the scientists who developed them. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 407 PSYCH 408 Neuroethology (4) NW Comparative exploration of the neural, hormonal, and genetic mechanisms that control behaviors necessary for survival and reproduction in animals. Model systems discussed include animal communication, mate choice, escape behavior, spatial orientation, homing and migration, and biological rhythms. Students are expected to understand fundamental concepts of neuroscience from any of the following prerequisite courses. Prerequisite: either PSYCH 333 OR BIOL 220. Offered: jointly with BIOL 408. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 408 PSYCH 410 Child and Adolescent Behavior Disorders (5) I&S Introduction to psychopathology in children and adolescents, and an overview of principal modes of intervention. Particularly for students interested in advanced work in clinical psychology, social work, or special education. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 305; either 2.0 in PSYCH 306 or 2.0 in PSYCH 202, 2.0 in PSYCH 206, and 2.0 in PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 410 PSYCH 413 Adolescent Development (5) I&S Provides an overview of physical, cognitive, psychosocial, and emotional development of adolescents with an emphasis on understanding the context in which young people grow up. Explores cultural, environmental, and social influences on development. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209; 2.0 in either PSYCH 206 or PSYCH 306. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 413 PSYCH 414 Cognitive Development (5) I&S Key theoretical and research approaches to cognitive development from infancy through adolescence. Sensorimotor development, language development, imitation, number concepts, logical reasoning, memory, cognition in adolescents, intelligence, and the role of biology, environment, and experience. Prerequisite: either minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 306, or 2.0 in both PSYCH 206 and PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 414 PSYCH 415 Personality Development of the Child (5) I&S Socialization theory and research, infant attachment and social relationships, development of aggressive and altruistic behaviors, sex-role development, moral development, parent and adult influences. Applied issues in social development and policy. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 206 or PSYCH 306. Instructors: Repacholi View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 415 PSYCH 416 Animal Communication (4) NW Eliot A. Brenowitz, Joseph A. Sisneros Evolution and mechanisms of animal communication and related processes of perception, thinking, and social behavior. Prerequisite: either minimum 2.0 grade in BIOL 180, 3.5 in PSYCH 200, or 2.0 in PSYCH 300. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 416 PSYCH 417 Stress, Aging, and the Brain (4) Jeansok J Kim How the brain and, consequently, behavior change in response to stress and with aging. Primary focus on animal models of stress and age-related phenomena, but humans also an integral part of discussions. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101; PSYCH 202; and PSYCH 209. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 417 PSYCH 418 Primate Social Behavior (5) NW Social behavior, ecology, and group structure of monkeys and apes from an evolutionary, sociobiological, and anthropological perspective. Prerequisite: either minimum 3.5 grade in PSYCH 200, 2.0 in PSYCH 300, 2.0 in BIO A 201, or 2.0 in BIOL 180. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 418 PSYCH 419 Behavioral Studies of Zoo Animals (5) NW Observational studies of behavior of zoo animals to expand basic knowledge of animal behavior, conservation of endangered species, and research methodology with discussions and tours focusing on zoo philosophy and operations. Offered in cooperation with Woodland Park Zoo. Prerequisite: either minimum 2.0 grade in BIOL 180, 3.5 in PSYCH 200, or 2.0 in PSYCH 300. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 419 PSYCH 420 Drugs and Behavior (3) NW Animal and clinical research on the behavioral consequences of drug intake. Prerequisite: PSYCH 322. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 420 PSYCH 421 Neural Basis of Behavior (5) NW Anatomical and physiological principles and resultant behavior involved in the integrative action of the nervous system. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 421 PSYCH 423 Programming For Psychology and Neuroscience (4) NW Ione Fine Programming techniques relevant to researchers in behavioral sciences. Gives researchers with no or little experience in programming the tools needed to design and program their own experiment, do basic analyses, and plot results. Addresses experimental design, stimulus presentation, curve fitting, randomization techniques, basic statistics, data plotting, debugging, and code optimization. Offered: AWSpS, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 423 PSYCH 426 Neurobiology of Learning and Memory (4) NW Sheri J. Y. Mizumori Theory and research on how animals learn and remember, including basic concepts of brain plasticity, how brain areas and neurons adapt to changes in experiences throughout the lifespan, and cellular and structural substrates of a "memory." Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either PSYCH 302, PSYCH 322, PSYCH 333, or PSYCH 421. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 426 PSYCH 430 Development of Brain Connections (4) NW Analysis of innate and environmental factors that play a role in the development of brain connections. Critical review of current literature on the various strategies used by neurons to find their appropriate targets. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 202, PSYCH 333, PSYCH 421, PSYCH 422, or PSYCH 423. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 430 PSYCH 431 Ecopsychology (5) I&S P. KAHN Explores psychology of the human relationship with nature. Critically examines how ecopsychology can impact urban sustainability, human health, environmental education, and the design of new technologies. Specific topics include evolutionary psychology; human-animal interaction; biophillia; children and nature; indigenous cultures; and ecotherapy. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 431/ESRM 431; W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 431 PSYCH 432 Visual Neuroscience (4) I&S/NW Surveys current facts/theories about how our brains interpret the images formed by our eyes to create a presentation of the visual environment. Topics include retinal processing, 3-D vision; color, form, motion, and object perception; and visual illusions. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 333 or PSYCH 355. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 432 PSYCH 435 Human Color Vision (5) NW/I&S Discusses how color does not exist in the physical environment but is instead a creation of our brains. Explores perceptual, physiological, developmental, evolutionary, genetic, and cultural aspects of human color vision, including its role in language, culture, and art. Prerequisite: PSYCH 202; PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 435 PSYCH 436 Developmental Aspects of Sport Competition (4) I&S Biophysical and psychosocial influences of sport participation on growth and development of children and youth. Competition readiness, injuries, stress, aggression, roles and responsibilities of parents and coaches. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209. Instructors: Smoll View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 436 PSYCH 437 Motor Development (4) NW Analysis of motor development from prenatal origins through adolescence with emphasis on relations between biophysical and psychosocial development of children and youth. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209. Instructors: Smoll View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 437 PSYCH 439 Psychology of Health Disparities (4) I&S, DIV In the United States, race and ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and other identities and experiences affect risk for a range of health outcomes. Reviews psychological research on the sources of these disparities and potential solutions to address them. Covers topics such as the role of discrimination, interactions with healthcare providers, and how to change the social context to improve health. Prerequisite: PSYCH 209. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 439 PSYCH 440 Psychology of Emotion (5) I&S T. Turowski Overview of psychological research and theory on emotion, including biological, developmental, cognitive, social, and cultural perspectives. Topics include: why we have emotions; how emotions influence thoughts, actions, and interactions; facial expressions; controlling emotions; morality; gender differences; and the function of specific emotions such as joy, anger, and sadness. Prerequisite: PSYCH 209 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 440 PSYCH 441 Perceptual Processes (5) I&S/NW Theory and findings in perception with a focus on visual perception in humans. Discrimination and constancy for simple judgments, segregation and identification of visual objects, and specific areas of investigation such as reading and computer vision. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 333. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 441 PSYCH 443 Motivational Theories in Social Psychology (5) I&S Theories of motivation in social psychology. Emphasis on how motivation and cognition mutually influence each other to produce behavior. Explores such topics as persuasion, goal pursuit, self-regulation, achievement, and social comparison. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 345. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 443 PSYCH 445 Theories of Social Psychology (5) I&S Evaluation of the major theories of human social behavior supported by the empirical literature; theories of social cognition and thought; major theories of social interaction, group processes, and social learning. Prerequisite: PSYCH 345. Instructors: Brown View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 445 PSYCH 447 Psychology of Language (4) VLPA/I&S Introduction to the study of language, including language structure, speech perception, language acquisition, psychological processes underlying comprehension and production of language, the relation between brain and language, and the question of the species-specificity of human language. Prerequisite: either minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209, minimum 2.0 grade in LING 200, or LING 201. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 447 PSYCH 448 Selected Topics in Psychological Science (1-15, max. 15) Selected research topics of contemporary interest. Quarterly listings of specific offerings are available at departmental advising office. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 448 PSYCH 449 Organizational and Industrial Psychology (5) I&S Examines research on human behavior in industrial and organizational environments. Topics include research methods, job analysis, the prediction of workplace performance, personnel selection and training, performance appraisal, group influences, job satisfaction, job motivation, leadership, and human factors. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101; PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 449 PSYCH 450 Honors Research Seminar in Psychology (2-, max. 4) Senior thesis research; preparation of senior thesis; oral presentation of research. Four credits of PSYCH 450 required for all senior Honors candidates in conjunction with PSYCH 498 and PSYCH 499. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 450 PSYCH 451 Health Psychology (5) I&S/NW Overview of the psychological and behavioral factors in health and disease. Includes research on both psychological causes and treatments. Topics include stress, risky behaviors, patient-provider interactions, pain, behavioral/medical treatments, and lifestyle interventions. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; 2.0 in PSYCH 209; 2.0 in either PSYCH 303, or PSYCH 345. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 451 PSYCH 452 Psychology of the Self-Concept (4) I&S Examines psychological theory and research on the role of the self-concept in regulating behavior. Topics include the development of the self-concept; self-awareness; and self-esteem maintenance. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 245 or PSYCH 345. Instructors: Brown View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 452 PSYCH 456 Social and Moral Development (5) I&S Theoretical approaches toward explaining children's social and moral development, including those that are nativistic, sociobiological, behavioristic, psychoanalytic, and constructivist. Use of theory to investigate applied problems related to parenting, education, peer relationships, authority, sexuality, culture, ecology, and technology. Prerequisite: either PSYCH 206 or PSYCH 306. Instructors: Kahn View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 456 PSYCH 457 Language Development (5) VLPA/I&S First-language acquisition and use by children. Emphasis on theoretical issues and research techniques. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 206, PSYCH 306, LING 200, or LING 400. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 457 PSYCH 458 Behavioral Genetics (4) NW Role of genetics in determining variation in human and animal behavior and in regulating behavioral development. Techniques for quantifying genetic variation, behavioral effects, and gene expression. Prerequisite: either minimum 3.5 grade in PSYCH 200, 2.0 in PSYCH 300, or 2.0 in BIOL 180. Offered: jointly with BIOL 458. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 458 PSYCH 459 Evolutionary Psychology (4) I&S/NW Explores human behavior from the perspective of biological evolution. Covers core issues such as cooperation, communication, aggression, mating, reproduction, and parental and family interactions, as well as specialized applications within psychology such as psychopathology. Encourages a critical, skeptical examination of this new field. Prerequisite: either minimum 3.5 grade in PSYCH 200 or minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 300. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 459 PSYCH 460 Cognitive Neuroscience (4) NW Discussion of neural systems underlying cognitive behavior with particular focus on breakdown of cognition following brain damage. Topics include object and space perception, language, voluntary movement, attention, and memory. Examination of contributions from related areas of neuroimaging, visual perception, linguistics, physiology, and neuroscience. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 333, PSYCH 355, or PSYCH 421. Instructors: Murray, Osterhout View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 460 PSYCH 462 Human Memory (5) I&S Research and theory in key areas of memory. Issues covered include information processing theory, the link between memory processes and their biological underpinnings, autobiographical memory, implicit memory, and the effect of emotion on memory. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209. Instructors: Joslyn View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 462 PSYCH 463 Implicit and Unconscious Cognition (3) I&S/NW Overview of method, theory, and findings concerning cognitive processes operating outside attentional focus or without introspective awareness. Considers relevance to basic phenomena of social, cognitive, and clinical psychology. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 315 or PSYCH 317; minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 303, PSYCH 305, PSYCH 333, PSYCH 345, or PSYCH 355. Instructors: Greenwald View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 463 PSYCH 470 Psychology and Music (5) VLPA/I&S Ellen Covey Introduction to the scientific study of musical behavior. An overview of current topics in the psychology of music from the areas of musical perception and cognition, musical development, music therapy, musical performance, and composition. Includes psychoacoustical and neuropsychological foundations, research methods, and some basic material in music theory. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in either PSYCH 202 or NEUSCI 302 . View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 470 PSYCH 471 Cognition In the Real World (4-5, max. 10) I&S Examines cognitive issues in applied settings, such as the workplace and education. Topics include such issues as attention, expertise, problem solving, decision-making, human error, automation, navigation, and individual differences. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209. Instructors: Joslyn View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 471 PSYCH 472 Augmented Humanity (5) I&S Ione Fine Focuses on technologies designed to become an intrinsic part of the neural functioning of the brain, such as cochlear and visual electronic prostheses, brain-machine interfaces, and genetic engineering. Current and future augmented humanity technologies, using an integrated approach that combines engineering, neuroscience, psychology, and ethics. Recommended: coursework on neurons and the basic structure of the sensorimotor areas of the brain. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 472 PSYCH 478 Cultural Psychology (4) I&S Surveys cultural influences on cognitive, emotion, morality, self-concept, and mental health, from a multicultural perspective. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 478 PSYCH 479 Advanced Human Sexuality (5) I&S Intensive reading on current issues relevant to the physiological, psychological, cultural aspects of human sexuality. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 210. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 479 PSYCH 481 Seminar in Advanced Quantitative Methods (3) Examines the role of statistical methods in psychological research. Issues and controversies surrounding null hypothesis significance testing. Review of selected alternative statistical methods in psychology. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 315 or PSYCH 318. Instructors: Little View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 481 PSYCH 482 Advanced Research Methods for Behavioral Psychology (4) QSR Yuichi Shoda Develops skills of collecting and analyzing behavioral research data, communicating the results orally and in writing, and expressing perspectives on issues of scientific method and practice. Prerequisite: either PSYCH 315 or PSYCH 317; either PSYCH 330, PSYCH 331, PSYCH 332, or PSYCH 350. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 482 PSYCH 483 Writing in Psychology (5) Helps students refine scientific writing skills. Students practice conducting focused literature searches and writing literature reviews, preparing empirical data for presentations, organizing and writing research reports, and writing about psychology for a lay audience. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 209; minimum 2.0 grade in either PSYCH 300, PSYCH 303, PSYCH 305, PSYCH 306, PSYCH 333, PSYCH 345, or PSYCH 355. Instructors: Covey, Joslyn View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 483 PSYCH 485 Primate Conservation Biology and Behavior (5) NW Examines the principles and concepts of conservation biology as they apply to the nonhuman primates with special attention to theoretical advances, conservation strategies, and management practices central to primate conservation. Prerequisite: either minimum 3.5 grade in PSYCH 200 or 2.0 in PSYCH 300 or 2.0 in BIO A 201. Instructors: Kyes View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 485 PSYCH 486 Animal Mind (4) NW Explores the cognitive capacities of animals. Focuses on the classical question, first clearly posed by Darwin, of how similar are the cognitive processes underlying behavior in humans and animals. Encourages a critical, skeptical examination of this new field. Prerequisite: minimum 3.5 grade in PSYCH 200 or 2.0 in PSYCH 300. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 486 PSYCH 487 Advanced Psychobiology of Women (5) I&S/NW Intensive reading on current issues relevant to women's psychology and physiology. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 357/ GWSS 357. Instructors: Kenney Offered: jointly with GWSS 487; W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 487 PSYCH 488 Stress and Coping (4) I&S/NW Reviews theories and research concerning stress and its roles in behavior, personality, development, health, and interpersonal relationships. Coping analyzed as a factor in the way people respond to stressful circumstances. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 202; 2.0 in PSYCH 209. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 488 PSYCH 489 Clinical Psychology (3) I&S Basic issues, methods, and research: professional issues, psychological assessment, and approaches to psychotherapy and behavioral change. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in PSYCH 305. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 489 PSYCH 490 Stress Management (3) I&S/NW Nature of stress. Physiological responses to stress and relaxation. Techniques of stress management with training in relaxation, biofeedback, meditation, cognitive restructuring, exercise, nutrition, interpersonal communication skills, and time management. Prerequisite: PSYCH 101. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 490 PSYCH 491 Special Topics in Child Development, Learning, and Mental Health (1-5, max. 30) I&S Selected topics of contemporary interest in child development, learning, and mental health. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 491 PSYCH 494 Field Study in Animal Behavior (2-3, max. 9) Kyes Field experience in areas relating to animal behavior through participation in seminar discussion and field exercises and training at foreign and domestic field study sites. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 494 PSYCH 496 Undergraduate Teaching Experience in Psychology (2-3, max. 6) Students are trained as assistants in quiz sections or as supplemental tutors for undergraduate psychology courses. Designed especially for students planning graduate work or education certification. An overall maximum of 18 credits in PSYCH 496, PSYCH 497, PSYCH 498, and PSYCH 499 may apply toward a baccalaureate degree. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 496 PSYCH 497 Undergraduate Fieldwork (1-5, max. 10) Dana C Nelson Individual consultation with faculty member or supervised practicum experience in a broad range of community settings and agencies focused on treating or managing mental health concerns. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 497 PSYCH 498 Directed Reading in Psychology (1-3, max. 18) Readings in special interest areas under supervision of departmental faculty. Discussion of reading in conference with the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 498 PSYCH 499 Undergraduate Research (1-3, max. 18) Design and completion of individual research projects. An overall maximum of 18 credits in PSYCH 496, PSYCH 497, PSYCH 498, and PSYCH 499 may apply toward a baccalaureate degree. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 499 PSYCH 500 Proseminar in Psychology (1, max. 10) Presentations on professionally and practically useful topics by guest faculty presenters designed for first-year and second-year graduate students. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 500 PSYCH 502 Core Concepts in Animal Behavior (3) Joseph A. Sisneros Reading, reports, and discussion on animal behavior, with a focus on topics that lie at the interface of animal behavior, evolutionary science, neurobiology, and psychology. Includes social organization, mating systems, foraging, learning, communication, and agonistic behavior. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 502 PSYCH 503 Core Concepts in Behavior Genetics (4) Overview of current approaches to genetic analysis in psychology. Role of genetics in behavioral variation, and in regulating behavioral development. Techniques for quantifying genetic variation, behavioral effects of genes, and patterns of gene expression. Genetic effects on major behavioral differences. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Shoda View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 503 PSYCH 504 Core Concepts in Behavioral Neuroscience (3) Ellen Covey, Jeansok J Kim, Sheri J. Y. Mizumori Historical and contemporary perspectives in behavioral neuroscience. Current methodologies and research strategies. May include sensory processing, genetics, behavioral neuroendocrinology, developmental neural plasticity, neurobiology of learning and memory, lifespan perspectives on behavioral neurobiology, and psychopharmacology. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 504 PSYCH 505 Core Concepts in Neuroethology (3) Sisneros Reviews the current topics and approaches to the study of the neurobiological basis of natural behaviors or "neurothology." Explores core concepts in the field of neuroethology and examines the role of the nervous system and the underlying neural circuits adapted for species-typical behaviors. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 505 PSYCH 506 Core Concepts in Cognitive Neuroscience (3) Combines psychological models of information processing with research techniques in the biomedical sciences. Topics in vision, attention, memory, motor behavior, and language illustrate this integrative approach. Research methods include behavioral, single unit, lesion, and neuro-imaging techniques. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Murray, Osterhout View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 506 PSYCH 507 Core Concepts in Cognitive Psychology (3) Survey of the major topics in human cognition. Discussion of memory, concepts and categories, language, decision-making, and problem solving. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 507 PSYCH 508 Core Concepts in Perception (3) Current topics in perception, psychophysics, sensory memory, pattern recognition, letter and word perception, and visual masking. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 508 PSYCH 509 Core Concepts in Computational Cognitive and Neural Modeling (5) Introduction to the basics of computational modeling techniques for psychologists and neuroscientists. Covers two common modeling approaches (production system models and neural network models) and describes the principles of their application to semantic memory, working memory, perception, reinforcement learning, skill acquisition, and transfer. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 509 PSYCH 510 Core Concepts in Social Psychology (4) An overview of contemporary theories and research in social psychology, focusing on introducing graduate students to the field as practitioners of social psychological research. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Cheryan, Kaiser, Shoda View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 510 PSYCH 511 Core Concepts in Personality (3) Yuichi Shoda Review of personality research. Roles of cognitive, affective, motivational, and psychodynamic processes. Critical evaluation of current personality, its antecedents, and its influences over behavior. Attention to role of personality variables in social relationships. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 511 PSYCH 512 Development of Prejudice (3) Sapna Cheryan Explores now prejudice emerges and develops across the lifespan. Each week focuses a big question (e.g., "What are the earlies signs of prejudice? Can the disadvantaged be prejudiced?") with supporting readings from the developmental, social, cultural, and evolutionary psychology literatures. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 512 PSYCH 513 Core Concepts in Biological Basis of Development (4) Embryological, genetic, physiological, and evolutionary perspectives of human development; biological development in infancy; sensory development and its influence on the development of perception; primate models for human development. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 513 PSYCH 514 Core Concepts in Early Cognitive and Linguistic Development (4) Andrew N Meltzoff Origins and early development of thought and language. Piagetian theory and modern-day revisions. In-depth examination of historical and philosophical bases for current empirical research. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 514 PSYCH 515 Core Concepts in Personality and Social Development (4) Theories and empirical literature in personality and social development throughout infancy, childhood. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 515 PSYCH 516 Core Concepts: Early Social Cognition in Typical Development and Autism (3) Describes current theoretical and empirical approaches to understand social cognitive processes underlying infants' ability and motivation to attend to, interpret, and act on social information. Research findings from typical infants and those at elevated risk for autism identify the implications of divergent developmental trajectories. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 516 PSYCH 520 Core Concepts in Affective Science (3) Provides an overview of the major theories, research findings, and applications in the scientific study of emotion. Topics include the function of emotion; physiological and behavioral expression of emotion; motion regulation; emotions and health; and how emotions influence intimate relationships. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 520 PSYCH 521 Core Concepts in Decision Making (3) S. Joslyn Overview of theories and behavioral research on the cognitive processes involved in individual human decision-making including bounded rationality, prospect theory, dual systems, adaptive strategies and the nature of expertise. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 521 PSYCH 522 Laboratory in Statistical Computation I (2) Techniques of computation using statistical software on personal computers. Organization of data files, transformations of variables, graphical representations of data, descriptive statistics, elementary inferential statistical analyses. Prerequisite: concurrent enrollment in PSYCH 524, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 522 PSYCH 523 Laboratory in Statistical Computation II (2) Techniques of statistical computation using statistical software on personal computers and mainframe computers. Multiple regression, analysis of variance and covariance. Planned and post hoc comparisons and confidence intervals. Data analytic diagnostics for violations of regression assumptions. Prerequisite: PSYCH 522 and PSYCH 524, concurrent enrollment in PSYCH 525, or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 523 PSYCH 524 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis (4) Basic concepts of statistical theory and methods of data analysis. Emphasis on the integration of statistical theory, statistical computation, and psychological research methods. Required of all first-year graduate students in psychology. Prerequisite: concurrent enrollment in PSYCH 522, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 524 PSYCH 525 Linear Models and Data Analysis (4) Analysis of data in the behavioral sciences. Required of all first-year graduate majors. Prerequisite: PSYCH 522, PSYCH 524; concurrent registration in PSYCH 523, or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 525 PSYCH 526 Multivariate Statistics (4) An introduction to statistical modeling; interactive data analyses; use of regression, ANOVA, logistic regression, and log-linear models in explanatory studies. Prerequisite: PSYCH 525. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 526 PSYCH 527 Core Concepts in Cognitive Approach to Human Memory (3) S. Joslyn Topics in human memory focusing primarily on long-term memory. Begins with an overview of the cognitive perspective. Specific topics may include implicit and explicit memory, autobiographical memory, emotion and memory, memory for mental events, mechanisms for forgetting, source monitoring and factors that enhance memory. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 527 PSYCH 528 Practical Methods for Behavioral Research (4, max. 8) Yuichi Shoda Examination of methodological, practical, and communication problems associated with research on human behavior. Topics include: selecting research problems, use of theory, types of validity, common sense about statistics, when to replicate, dealing with unpredicted results, strategies for presentation and publication. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 528 PSYCH 529 Advanced Research Methods (5) Surveys advanced clinical research methods not covered in the required statistics sequence. Examples include structural equation modeling, hierarchical linear modeling, growth curve modeling, and taxometric analyses. Hands-on experience gained through weekly assignments using each method. Prerequisite: PSYCH 525. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 529 PSYCH 530 Introduction to Manifest Path, Confirmatory Factor, and Latent Variable Path Analysis for Psychology (5) B. Flaherty Introduces broad class of path analysis models for Psychology research, including manifest (observed) variable models, confirmatory factor analysis, and latent variable path models. Students will conduct and write-up analyses of multiple data sets, including their own. Course focuses on testing complex scientific hypotheses, effects of measurement error, fit assessment and model selection, interpretation and presentation, and ethical use. Prerequisite: PSYCH 525, or permission of instructor. ; recommended: basic regression course. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 530 PSYCH 531 Practical Issues in Data Analysis and Presentation (4) Computational data "wrangling" and analysis as first steps researchers should take after collecting data. Teaches essential skills (including data analysis, data modeling, dimensionality reduction of "big data") that promote data visualization and effective presentation of data. Prerequisite: PSYCH 524 and PSYCH 525; recommended: First two quarters of PSYCH grad statistics Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 531 PSYCH 535 Scientific Writing in Psychology (5, max. 10) Addresses issues in scientific writing and publishing; laboratories assist with writing, and provide feedback on drafts of articles throughout the writing process. Students write a journal article to submit for publication. Other writing projects are also possible with instructor's permission. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 535 PSYCH 536 Grant Preparation in Psychology (3, max. 6) Prepare and submit an application for a major national fellowship. Joint registration in PSYCH 598 with faculty adviser is required. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology and permission of instructor. Instructors: Mizumori Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 536 PSYCH 537 Teaching of Psychology (3) Examines issues concerning the teaching of psychology, including educational goals, course development, instructional methods, TA-student and TA-faculty relations, grading, student diversity, and problem situations. Assignments designed to enhance students' organizational, presentational, and problem-solving skills. Prerequisite: graduate standing in the Department of Psychology. Instructors: Passer Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 537 PSYCH 538 Programming for Psychology and Neuroscience (4) Geoffrey M Boynton, Ione Fine Introduction to programming skills with the goal of teaching how to design, program, and analyze experiments. Topics include principles of programming, the programming environment, presentation software, and data collection, management, and analysis. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 538 PSYCH 540 Advances in Psychology (3-5, max. 30) Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in psychology. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 540 PSYCH 541 Advances in Animal Behavior (3-5, max. 30) Eliot A. Brenowitz, Randall C KYES, Joseph A. Sisneros Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in animal behavior. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 541 PSYCH 542 Advances in Behavioral Neuroscience (3-5, max. 30) Ellen Covey, Jeansok J Kim, Sheri J. Y. Mizumori Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in behavioral neuroscience. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 542 PSYCH 543 Advances in Working Memory (3) S. Joslyn Provides an overview of theories in working memory, roughly synonymous with consciousness. Introduces the Baddeley model as well as alternative models and focus on recent research on a variety of topics including verbal and spatial memory, executive control, individual differences and training working memory. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 543 PSYCH 545 Advances in Cognition/Perception (3-5, max. 30) Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in cognition/perception. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 545 PSYCH 546 Advances in Developmental Psychology (1-5, max. 30) Peter Kahn, Andrew N Meltzoff, Betty Repacholi, Frank L Smoll Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in developmental psychology. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 546 PSYCH 547 Advances in Social/Personality (3-5, max. 30) Sapna Cheryan, Cheryl Kaiser, Yuichi Shoda Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in social psychology/personality. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 547 PSYCH 548 Advances in Quantitative Psychology (3-5, max. 30) Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in quantitative psychology. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Flaherty View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 548 PSYCH 549 Seminar in Physiological Psychology (2) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 549 PSYCH 550 Seminar in Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 550 PSYCH 551 Seminar in Animal Behavior (1-2, max. 30) Eliot A. Brenowitz, Joseph A. Sisneros Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 551 PSYCH 552 Seminar in Behavioral Neuroscience (1-2, max. 30) Ellen Covey, Jeansok J Kim, Sheri J. Y. Mizumori Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 552 PSYCH 555 Seminar in Cognition/Perception (1-2, max. 30) Geoffrey M Boynton, Ione Fine, Scott O. Murray, Andrea Stocco, Chantel Prat Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 555 PSYCH 556 Seminar in Developmental Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Meltzoff, Repacholi, Smoll View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 556 PSYCH 557 Seminar in Social/Personality (1-2, max. 30) Jonathon D Brown, Sapna Cheryan, Cheryl Kaiser, Yuichi Shoda Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 557 PSYCH 558 Seminar in Quantitative Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Brian P Flaherty, Laura Little Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 558 PSYCH 560 Research Strategies (1-2, max. 30) Group discussions of problems and continuing strategies for ongoing and future research projects. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology; others by permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 560 PSYCH 561 Current Trends in Psychology (*, max. 30) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 561 PSYCH 562 Evolutionary Psychology of Gender, Mating, and Reproduction (3) Joseph A. Sisneros Reviews evidence for biological factors influencing human mating and reproductive behavior, through application of concepts and theory from animal behavior, behavioral genetics, and evolutionary biology. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 562 PSYCH 563 Developmental Psychology and the Human Relationship with Nature (4) Kahn Theories of development used to investigate the ontogenesis of the human relationship with nature. An emphasis on social cognition, children's environmental moral reasoning, the effects of technology in children's lives, and evolutionary theory. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 563 PSYCH 564 Advanced Attitude Theory (5) Theoretical, methodological, and empirical work on the concept of attitude and its practical applications. Topics include: definition of attitude, measurement of attitudes, information-processing theories, functional theories, cognitive structure theories, the self as attitude object, unconscious attitudinal processes. Prerequisite: PSYCH 445; PSYCH 525 or equivalent; or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 564 PSYCH 565 Quantifying Brain Analysis (3) Covers concepts and applications of statistically unbiased methods for quantifying brain structure. Hands-on learning and application of concepts, sampling strategies and calculations for unbiased stereological measure of the size and number of various brain components. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 565 PSYCH 566 Neural Correlates of Perceptual Cognition (3) Contribution of sensory systems to perceptual capabilities. Critical review of literature on the neural correlates of abilities such as sensory discrimination, subjective perception, attention, imagery, object and face recognition, and spatial behavior. Some sensory disabilities reviewed. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 566 PSYCH 567 Higher Order Cognition (3) Survey of research on higher-order cognition with an emphasis on theoretical accounts of knowledge representation. Topics include problem solving, inductive and deductive reasoning, hypothesis testing, causal inferences, similarity judgments, and categorization. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 567 PSYCH 568 Cognitive Approaches to Human Memory (3) Examination of current topics in human memory from the perspective of cognitive psychology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 568 PSYCH 596 Advanced Teaching Practicum (2, max. 6) Supervised participation in graduate teaching. Prerequisite: graduate student in psychology and permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 596 PSYCH 598 Directed Reading in Psychology (*, max. 30) Selected topics. Prerequisite: permission of a supervising psychology faculty member. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 598 PSYCH 599 Directed Research in Psychology (1-3, max. 24) Supervised participation in research. Prerequisite: permission of a supervising psychology faculty member. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 599 PSYCH 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 600 PSYCH 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 700 PSYCH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCH 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022