Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Application deadline extended Apply now through June 10 Named a Best Online Program 2022 by U.S. News & World Report Check out our programs My mask protects you, your masks protect me. Take a look at all the return to college guidelines for nursing students Tenure begins Aug. 1, 2022 >> Read More << LCON PhD Program Get a PhD in Nursing in as little as 3 years! Get a degree in nursing! Undergraduate and graduate programs available PreviousNext Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Change lives, starting with yours. At UofM, an education isn't something you get. It's something you do. That's because each day here brings more than lectures and tests. It brings new opportunities to experience, to create. To solve, build, tear down and start again. Grow, explore and express. And our nursing students are on the forefront of changing lives. The Loewenberg College of Nursing (LCON) incorporates state-of-the-art technologies and world class professors to advance education, research, and practice. LCON is home to more than 1,000 students, enrolled on two campuses (Memphis and Lambuth) and online. Main campus students are housed in the new $60 million Community Health Building. The nearly 200,000 square foot building serves as a hub for faculty, students, staff and community partners to exchange ideas, pursue scientific inquiries, strive for academic excellence and commit to serving interests of the community from local to global. The impactful support of our community partners allows us to push forward and advance, to meet our students' needs to have access to the newest technology and state of the art knowledge. Driven by doing, we work collectively toward achieving health equity of global communities. Tweets by UofMNursing Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.