Skip to main content Our Team Experiential Learning Back Experiential Learning Longhorn Impact Fellowship Texas Social Innovation Challenge MBA Impact Investing Network and Training Sustainability Events UFCU Sustainble Financial Institutions Student Organizations and Affiliated Programs Curriculum Back Curriculum Graduate Undergraduate Global Sustainability and Leadership Minor Resources Research Alumni Events Our Team Experiential Learning Longhorn Impact Fellowship Texas Social Innovation Challenge MBA Impact Investing Network and Training Sustainabiity Events Student Organizations and Affiliated Programs Curriculum Graduate Undergraduate Global Sustainability Leadership Minor Resources Research Donors and Alumni Calendar and Events CENTERS & INITIATIVES WHERE PROFITS MEET PURPOSE The Global Sustainability Leadership Institute, formerly known as the Social Innovation Initiative, acts as UT Austin’s hub on campus for innovation in social and environmental impact. WHO WE ARE The Institute is managed by the McCombs School of Business and is built in partnership with The Moody College of Communication. Our work focuses on corporate sustainability, sustainable finance, impact innovation and infrastructure, and sustainability communications. Our Mission: The GLSI develops leadership and solutions that address critical sustainability challenges and shape an inclusive, regenerative global economy and society. Our Vision: A world where profits and purpose meet to drive positive change. McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication Creating Leaders Our goal is to send leaders out into the world for whom purpose and profit are connected — leaders who will create a regenerative, inclusive world in their own lifetimes. Meeta Kothare, Managing Director IMPACT OF GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY 96% of the world’s largest 250 companies reported on sustainability in 2020 Read the Report Racial inequities have cost the U.S. economy more than $16 trillion over the past two decades. See the Impact 75% of Millennials seek sustainable products Shop Smarter AREAS OF FOCUS The Institute positively impacts students and community members through experiential learning, classes, events, career support, and research. Corporate Sustainability Sustainable companies consider environmental, social, and governance issues in the company’s long-term strategy and into every sector of the organization. Such efforts work toward a "triple-bottom line," aiming simultaneously for an increase in profit, benefits to the environment, and benefits to the people that interact with companies. Sustainable Finance Sustainable finance continues to birth new, innovative models for funding impact. Recent innovations include social and green bonds, pay for success models, and more. The GSLI focuses on ESG investing for public markets and impact investing for the private sector and new venture funding. ESG Investing: The systematic and explicit inclusion by investment managers of environmental, social, and governance metrics into the investment screening process. E: Environmental criteria focus on a company’s stewardship of the natural environment and include issues like greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, and natural resource depletion. S: Social criteria focus on all people who interact with a company throughout its value chain, from employees to suppliers to the communities within which the company operates. Examples of social issues include workplace health safety, labor practices, and relations with local communities. G: Governance criteria focus on a company’s leadership, audits and internal controls, and shareholder rights. Examples of governance issues include bribery and corruption, business ethics, and board diversity. Impact Investing: Targeted investments, typically made in private markets, aimed at solving social or environmental problems, and including community investing, where capital is specifically directed to traditionally underserved individuals or communities, as well as financing that is provided to businesses with a clear social or environmental purpose. Sustainability Communications Sustainable finance, corporate sustainability, and impact innovation and infrastructure all rely on informative, persuasive communication to create buy-in. The GSLI is connected to The Moody College of Communication for education in sustainable journalism, television, immersive media, and more. The Impact Continuum EDUCATE – EXPERIENCE - ENGAGE Longhorn Impact Fellowship at Texas Get a LIFT Texas Social Innovation Challenge More About TSIC MBA Impact Investing Network and Training Make a MIINT Sustainability Events Attend an Event UFCU Sustainable Financial Institutions Explore UFCU Institutions Student Organizations Get Involved STAY UP TO DATE GSLI Newsletter The Innovator is our monthly newsletter with information about events and opportunities. Subscribe Today Impact Connections Visit our blog to learn more about our team, our students, and our accomplishments. Read Impact Connections PIONEERING A FRESH WAY FORWARD Businesses must be part of the solution to global risks, such as climate change and inequality. Through regenerative, sustainable practices, the business world can help shape a more just and secure future. Here is how we think about these issues: Introductory Video Please support the next generation of sustainability leaders Give Now Stay in the Know Sign up for our newsletter via email Impact Connections Blog Get in Touch General Email Inquiries GSLI Programs, Events, and Career Advice GSLI Communications, Calendars, and Career Advice (512) 232-8165 McCombs School of Business 2110 Speedway, Stop B6000 The University of Texas at Austin Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin