Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Navy ROTC Menu Main Nav Navy ROTC Navy ROTC Officer Interview/Visitor Request Back Back Close About Program Curriculum Close Officer Interview/Visitor Request Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the website of Naval ROTC at Boston College, part of the Boston Consortium based out of Boston University. Battalion Blog Follow Us on Facebook bc.edu/veterans Scholarship Program Entrance Requirements U.S. Citizenship or Naturalized U.S. Citizen. Not less than 17 years old by September 1 of year starting college and no more than 23 on December 31 of that year. Must not have reached 27th birthday by December 31 of year in which graduation and commissioning are anticipated. Applicants with prior military service may be eligible for age adjustments for amount of time equal to their prior service, on month-by-month basis, for maximum of 36 months, if they will not reach 30th birthday by December 31 of year graduation and commissioning are anticipated. High school graduation or equivalency certificate by August 1 of year of entrance into four-year NROTC Scholarship program. No moral obligations or personal convictions that prevent conscientious bearing of arms and supporting and defending the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign or domestic or to taking an oath to perform such acts. Medically qualified by Navy or Marine Corps standards. You must not have any body piercing or tattoos that violate Navy or Marine Corps policy. Students with 30 or more semester hours or 45 or more quarter hours of college credit upon application are not eligible for four-year NROTC Scholarships. These students should see professors of naval science at host university's NROTC unit to discuss other scholarship opportunities. You must be within Navy or Marine Corps height/weight standards when you report. Apply for and gain admission to an approved NROTC college or university. Admission to an NROTC institution is not required during the selection process; however, notification of admission must be received before the scholarship can be activated. Students may apply for only one of three program options-Navy, Marine Corps, or Nurse. Active duty Navy applicants are ineligible to apply for NROTC program through COMNAVCRUITCOM. Active members of other branches of the military may apply if granted a conditional release. Individuals who are scheduled for boot camp may apply provided they complete all required application evolutions (i.e. strong interest inventory, officer interview, etc.). NSTC will accept teacher evaluations, transcripts, and ACT/SAT scores dated after the applicant’s ship date. Navy and Nurse-option applicants should apply online or through Navy recruiting offices. Marine Corps applicants should apply online or through Marine Corps recruiting offices. You may start the process of applying during the second semester of your junior year of high school. Before the application can be finalized and forwarded for selection consideration, you must ensure that a copy of your complete transcript including your entire junior year is forwarded to your recruiter. FAQ Open All Close All Can I be a member of NROTC Boston Consortium while attending a local area Community College? No. You must be a student at BU, BC, or a nursing major at NEU to be part of the NROTC program. The MIT NROTC Unit has agreements with Harvard and Tufts. If you are at a community college you can apply for the two-year NROTC Scholarship by February 15 of your sophomore year. You must also apply and get accepted to one of the above mentioned universities; however, before you are enrolled in one of those five universities you cannot participate in the NROTC program. What happens if I have a NROTC scholarship to Boston College but am not accepted to the school? You will not lose your scholarship. Check the scholarship packet for instructions on requesting a transfer of your scholarship to a different school. I was told I am not physically qualified for the NROTC program. What can I do? You will not receive a NROTC scholarship unless you are found physically qualified for the NROTC program. It is imperative that you become physically qualified before commencement of classes. If you are attempting to gain a waiver for some disqualifying physical condition and you start classes at the university you will be responsible for payment of tuition, fees ,and books for that semester. If you are later found physically qualified for a NROTC scholarship during that same semester (i.e., your waiver is granted), your tuition, fees, and book expenses can be reimbursed (case by case basis). If you are found not physically qualified for the NROTC program, tuition, fees, and book expenses will not be reimbursed. If you are not sure if you are physically qualified or if you need information on how to get a waiver please contact NSTC or the recruiter who helped process your application. What happens if I am a College Program Midshipman and don’t get a scholarship? If you don’t earn a scholarship by the end of your sophomore year you automatically apply for Advance Standing. Advance Standing, if granted, will provide the Midshipman with a stipend every month during the school year for the remaining two years. Upon graduation the Advanced Standing Midshipman receives the same commission as the Scholarship Midshipman. If the Midshipman has not been granted Advance Standing by the beginning of the junior year he or she will be disenrolled from the NROTC program. What are the obligations of a NROTC Scholarship Midshipman upon commissioning? Scholarship students that graduate and receive their commissioning are obligated to serve nine years of commissioned service, five years of active duty and four years inactive reserve. This is in an unrestricted line billet (surface, submarine, aviation, or special warfare). If students go to flight school as Pilots or Naval Flight Officers, their obligations increase to eight and seven years of active duty, respectively from their winging date. What obligation do I owe as a College Program Midshipman with Advance Standing that is commissioned? College Program midshipmen are obligated to serve a minimum of nine years commissioned service, three of these years must be active duty. The length of active duty is extended to six years for Naval Flight Officers and eight years for Pilots upon receiving wings. What exactly does a NROTC Scholarship pay for? The scholarship covers full tuition at one of our universities for two or four years depending on when the student applies for a scholarship. In addition, each scholarship student receives: educational fees; uniforms; a book allowance; and a monthly subsistence allowance. The NROTC pays for scholarship students’ initial transportation from home to school and from school to summer cruise training. Does the NROTC Scholarship pay for room and board? No, the NROTC Scholarship does not pay for room and board. What do Midshipmen have to do in the NROTC program? Midshipmen are required to take one Naval Science class each semester for four years. These classes provide instruction on the history of the Navy to shipboard operations and engineering. Students are also required to attend Lab in uniform on Wednesdays from 1600 to 1800. If students are on scholarship they are required to attend one month of summer training for three consecutive summers. What does the summer training consist of for scholarship students? The initial training is prior to freshman year orientation. This training provides the basics to get the freshmen ready to join the Battalion. The first fleet summer training scholarship students attend is called Cortramid. Scholarship students attend Cortramid over the summer between their freshmen and sophomore years of college. Cortramid’s goal is to orient Midshipmen with the Navy. One week is devoted to exposure to the surface Navy, another to aviation, another to submarines, and the last spent with the Marine Corps. Midshipmen have the choice of attending Cortramid on either the west coast in San Diego, California or in the east at Norfolk, Virginia. The Midshipman’s second class cruise (summer training) is between their sophomore and junior years. The second class cruise is designed to give the midshipman exposure to the enlisted community. The Midshipmen will be assigned a highly motivated career Petty Officer running mate that will work with the midshipman on board ship performing enlisted duties. The Midshipman’s first class cruise is between their junior and senior year of college. The first class cruise is designed to provide the Midshipman with a realistic exposure to what it is like to be an officer. The Midshipman is assigned a LT or LTJG running mate. The Midshipman will shadow the officer and assist the officer on performing shipboard duties while in port and underway. It should be noted that Advance Standing Midshipmen are required to attend this first class cruise. What academic standards are there for NROTC Scholarship and College Program Midshipman? Scholarship and College Program Midshipman must maintain a 2.5 Grade Point Average on a 4.0 scale, have no failing grades in any subject required for their major or commissioning, progress on a prescribed timeline for graduation, and have a full academic load every semester (15-18 units). Is the NROTC Program any different for Marine Option Midshipmen? Yes and no. Marine Option Midshipmen are required to take six Naval Science classes. Two of these Naval Science classes are separate from the Navy Option Midshipmen. The Marine Option classes focus on the history of warfare and amphibious operations. Marine Option Midshipmen are not required to take all of the classes that Navy Options Midshipmen are required to take. Only one semester of Military History or National Security Policy is required. Marine Option Midshipmen attend all Battalion drills and functions. Roughly 1/6 of the NROTC Program is Marine Options. Marine Option Midshipmen compete and are ranked against their fellow Marine Option Midshipmen. There is a Marine Officer Instructor and an Assistant Marine Officer Instructor at the NROTC Unit that oversee all the Marine Options. Marine Option Midshipmen that are on scholarship are required to attend summer training as well. The first summers training are identical to Navy Option Midshipmen; they are required to attend Cortramid. Between the Marine Options’ junior and senior year, he or she is required to attend Officer Candidate School or BULLDOG. After commissioning all Marines must attend The Basic School (TBS) regardless of their Military Occupational Specialty (MOS). Is a Marine Option Scholarship different from a Navy Option Scholarship? Yes, the Marine and Navy Scholarship process is different. However, some Midshipmen are allowed to transfer between Navy and Marine options if they so desire while they are in NROTC. College Program Midshipmen are also allowed to be Marine Options and work for a Marine Scholarship. College Program Marine Option Midshipmen must achieve Advance Standing by the end of their sophomore years in order not to be disenrolled. If the Marine Option Midshipman gains Advance Standing then he or she is required to serve three years of active duty. What NROTC classes should I register in? Naval Science registration will be handled by our office after you report to the unit. What if I haven’t been granted a scholarship? Can I still join NROTC? Absolutely. If a student hasn’t been granted a scholarship he or she can join the NROTC college program and will be required to do everything a scholarship student does. College program students (students that don’t have scholarships) do not go on summer training except they do attend the initial orientation prior to the Fall semester. College Program students have improved chances of picking up a scholarship since they demonstrated their motivation and desire by joining the NROTC program without any guaranties. The College Program students are reviewed for scholarship selection twice a year. The granting of a scholarship is based upon the student’s grades and military aptitude in NROTC. Can I join the College Program and apply for the national scholarship? Yes, if you are a freshmen you may concurrently join the College Program and apply for the national scholarship via the NROTC website. If you join the College Program after the fall semester of your freshmen year you will not be eligible to apply for the national scholarship. Back To Top Back To Top Navy ROTC NROTC Unit Boston University 116 Bay State Road Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-4232 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College