Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Writing an Evaluation Plan An evaluation plan is an integral part of a grant proposal that provides information to improve a project during development and implementation. For small projects, the Office of the Vice President for Research can help you develop a simple evaluation plan. If you are writing a proposal for larger center grant, using a professional external evaluator is recommended. We can provide recommendations of external evaluators; please contact Amy Carroll at [email protected] or 3-6301. For faculty in BioMed, please contact Judy Kimberly, Evaluation Director, at [email protected] or 3-5171. Do all grant proposals require an evaluation plan? Not all grant proposals require an evaluation plan; however, many program announcements and funding opportunities stipulate and evaluation strategy with specific milestones are important elements that should be considered. If an evaluation plan is required, it will generally be listed in the program announcement. Most often, larger, more involved grant proposals will require an evaluation plan, while a smaller, single-investigator proposals will not. If you are unsure whether your proposal requires an evaluation plan, please contact us. It is worth noting there is a difference between evaluation and research although there are several commonalities. Most simply: Research generalizes; Evaluation particularizes, Research is designed to prove something; Evaluation is designed to improve something Research provides the basis for drawing conclusions; Evaluation provides a basis for decision making Research--how it works; Evaluation--how well it works Research is about what is; Evaluation is about what is valuable There are two types of evaluation typically requested by funders--formative and summative—and which you use is largely dictated by the purpose of the evaluation. Do you want to prove that you achieved the outcomes as intended (summative) or are you doing evaluation to monitor if you are doing what you said you would in your grant application (formative)? Or both? We can help you prepare and review both types of evaluations outlined below. Formative or Process Evaluation does the following: Assesses initial and ongoing project activities Begins during project development and continues through implementation Provides new and sometimes unanticipated insights into improving the outcomes of the project Involves review by the principal investigator, the steering or governance committee, and either an internal or external evaluator (depending on grant requirements) Summative or Outcomes Evaluation does the following: Assesses the quality and success of a project in reaching stated goals Presents the information collected for project activities and outcomes Takes place after the completion of the project Involves review by the principal investigator, the steering or governance committee, either an internal or external evaluator, and the program director of the funding agency All evaluation plans should identify both participants (those directly involved in the project) and stakeholders (those otherwise invested by credibility, control or other capital), and should include the relevant items developed in the evaluation process. What does the evaluation process entail? The evaluation process can be broken down into a series of steps, from preparation to implementation and interpretation. Develop a conceptual model of the project and identify key evaluation points. This ensures that all participants and stakeholders understand the project's structure and expected outcomes, and helps focus on the project’s most important elements. Create evaluation questions and define measurable outcomes. Outcomes may be divided into short-term and long-term, or defined by the more immediate number of people affected by the project versus the overall changes that might not occur until after the project’s completion. Develop an appropriate evaluation design. A successful evaluation both highlights the most useful information about the project’s objectives and addresses its shortcomings. In developing an evaluation design, you should first determine who will be studied and when, and then select a methodological approach and data collection instruments. The NSF-sponsored Online Evaluation Resource Library provides step-by-step instructions for developing an evaluation plan. Collect data. Analyze data and present to interested audiences. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Meet the ORSD Team Engaged Scholarship and Broader Impacts Resources Grantsmanship on the Go Writing a Management Plan Writing an Evaluation Plan Proposal Library Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat