Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Honors & Awards > CASE Awards Boston College Wins Four CASE Excellence Awards Boston College’s Office of University Communications and Office of University Advancement have won four prestigious 2019 Excellence Awards from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, in the areas of videography, marketing and communications, and fundraising and alumni relations. “Boston College Special Delivery”—a Harry Potter-themed video created to welcome the class of 2022—has been recognized with a Gold award from CASE District I’s “Admissions Excellence” video category. The “Special Delivery” production was written, directed, and filmed by University Communications Creative Producer John Walsh ’17. Senior Digital Media Producer Paul Dagnello created the props and special effects for the piece, which also featured members of the BC community. In addition, University Communications staff won an award for promotional materials for the “The Minds Behind ‘Mindhunter,’” which tied with MIT for a Gold award in best practices in communications and marketing, and a Gold award for “The Minds behind ‘Mindhunter’” campaign, in the low-cost programming category. The fall 2018 special event, presented by the Connell School of Nursing, featured a conversation with Connell School Professor Ann Burgess and former FBI special investigator John Douglas. Tracy Bienen, senior associate director of marketing communications in University Communications, and Steven Constantine, assistant director of marketing and communications at the Connell School of Nursing, oversaw the award-winning effort with assistance from OUC staffers Christine Hunt (design), Zanna Ollove (social media), Kathleen Sullivan (news), Lee Pellegrini (photography), and Maureen Dezell (editing). The “Mindhunter” award for best practices in communications and marketing was presented within CASE’s “Platinum Categories,” which recognize the “best of the best programs and practices.” Other Boston College initiatives receiving CASE Excellence Awards included “Gasson Circle Door Openers: A Campaign for Financial Aid,” for which University Advancement won a Bronze award in the website category of “Fundraising and Alumni Relations Excellence Program.” CASE District I annually bestows its Excellence Awards, which recognize “work that raises the bar for the entire profession,” on individuals and schools doing innovative work in the fields of special events, fundraising, stewardship, volunteer engagement, alumni relations, advancement services, and communications. More than 260 submissions—“all of outstanding quality”—were received this year, according to CASE. Awardees will be recognized at the March 14 Achievement and Accolades Luncheon during the annual CASE District I Conference in Boston. —University Communications Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College