Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information DNP Student Spotlight: Sarah Dowd Doctor of Nursing Practice Program '22 May 9, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email The effects of COVID on our profession have made it even more critical that we join together and remain ready to fight for safe working conditions, fair wages, and a health care system that will not allow our most vulnerable patients to sustain disproportionately higher mortality rates for everything from cardiovascular disease to coronavirus infection.  Please tell us a bit about yourself; where are you from, and what do you like to do in your spare time? I’m originally from Lansing, Mich., but have lived in Brooklyn, N.Y. for nearly 10 years. In my free time I am active in my union, the New York State Nurses Association; I spend my time organizing with other public-sector nurses for improvements in our working conditions that create safer healing conditions for our patients. I organize with other nurses to realize our shared vision for a health care system that provides equitable care for all New Yorkers.  Our current two-tiered system corrals the poor and marginalized into under-resourced health care settings while wealthier patients receive premier health care only a stone's throw away.    Why did you decide to pursue nursing, and why did you choose Columbia? I decided to pursue nursing because the reproduction of socioeconomic inequalities in the health care system was particularly offensive to me when I understood the systemic consequences it has on working-class people for the enrichment of a few corporate investors. I realized nurses are particularly well situated to intervene and make demands for change as a massive section of the health care system. I chose to attend Columbia because it is a well-resourced institution. I was sure I would receive an excellent education. And I did.    How has the pandemic affected your experience as a nursing student, and your feelings about being a nurse? Nursing is harder than ever in the wake of the COVID 19 pandemic. While nursing wages have skyrocketed, we have also lost a lot of nurses to retirement and career change. Nurses are burnt out, exacerbating our already longstanding national nursing shortage. The effects of COVID on our profession have made it even more critical that we join together and remain ready to fight for safe working conditions, fair wages, and a health care system that will not allow our most vulnerable patients to sustain disproportionately higher mortality rates for everything from cardiovascular disease to coronavirus infection.    What are your next steps after graduation? I am working as a nurse practitioner in the Neurosciences Intensive Care Unit at NYC Health + Hospitals/Kings County Hospital. I hope to continue to improve my clinical practice using the education I received. I plan to continue organizing with other nurses for a health care system that is free of profit-motive. Perhaps in the shorter term, I plan to safely deliver my first baby this coming June.   Is there anything else you’d like to add? If anything I’ve said above speaks to you: consider joining a union and organizing with other nurses. We are stronger when we are united. Meet More 2022 Star Graduates Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top