Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Global Regional Activities Regional Activities Africa Asia-Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia About Faculty & Research MBA Experience Executive Education Alumni …→ Harvard Business School→ Global→ About About Africa Asia Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia Fast Facts → Europe Europe Paris HBS opened the Europe Research Center (ERC) in Paris in 2003, to help HBS develop and strengthen relationships with European business and academic leaders. The ERC enables HBS faculty to study more effectively one of the world’s most important economic regions during a time of significant transformation. The ERC has contributed to much of the European-focused faculty publications and research projects across the School. Research topics have ranged from the challenges of European economic and financial integration, corporate social responsibility, international capital flows, investor relations, consumer marketing, to policy-making issues and the impact of new technologies on business. Privacy Statement (English) Privacy Statement (French) Location Europe Research Center 62 rue Francois 1er Paris, 75008, France Tel: +33 1 4225 7373 Fax: +33 1 4225 1545 News & Highlights February 2022 HBS Newsroom Faculty Perspectives on the HBS Case Method: Professors Francesca Gino and Raffaella Sadun In this video, Professor Francesca Gino and Professor Raffaella Sadun discuss writing a case together. As fellow Italians experiencing the country’s COVID surge from afar, they wanted to collaborate on an issue close to their hearts that could bring useful lessons to the classroom. The “ASST Lodi, Italy: Europe’s COVID-19 Epicenter” multimedia case explores a small hospital system in Italy dealing with Europe's first COVID patient. The richness of the case analysis is deepened by their unique research perspectives: Professor Gino’s from the Negotiation, Organizations, and Markets unit and Professor Sadun’s from the Strategy unit. February 2022 HBS Newsroom Faculty Perspectives on the HBS Case Method: Professor Debora Spar In this video, Professor Debora Spar, Senior Associate Dean for Business and Global Society, explained how her research and teaching has been shaped by the case method. She compares it to conducting an orchestra—when it works it has a symphonic quality. Soon after joining HBS at age 27, Professor Spar wrote a case on Gerber baby food and their entry into post-communist Poland. “Gerber Products Co.: Investing in the New Poland” surfaces many viewpoints as students investigate Gerber management’s difficult decision-making under a high level of uncertainty. December 2021 HBS Alumni Bulletin Leadership in the Digital Age Earlier this year, the Europe Research Center hosted two virtual roundtable discussions on the pressing issues that accompany digital transformation. These were part of a global series of conversations led by Professor Linda Hill to explore how leadership had evolved in the 21st century and produce research, case studies, and courses based on that knowledge to educate a new generation of executives. In this article, Professor Hill discusses the takeaways from her discussions with the global business community. New Research on the Region April 2022 Teaching Material Christie's and Leonardo da Vinci's Salvator Mundi: The Value of a Brand By: Jill Avery A sixteenth century Renaissance masterpiece, missing for 137 years, believed by many to have been destroyed, and then rediscovered less than a decade ago, becomes the most expensive painting ever sold, all the while surrounded by controversy. Did the buyer of Leonardo da Vinci’s painting pay too much? Was it real? Did it matter? The power of the Leonardo brand and Christie’s marketing plan, which featured art world experts, Hollywood celebrities, and retailtainment, fueled a $450 million price for a painting previously sold for $10,000 just twelve years earlier. April 2022 Teaching Material Publicis Groupe 2021: Changing Nearly Everything By: Rosabeth M. Kanter, Tonia Labruyere, Vincent Dessain and Catarina Martinez After a leadership change at the French advertising company Publicis, new CEO Arthur Sadoun has to navigate changes due to digitalization and a pandemic. Teaching Note for HBS Case No. 322-050. March 2022 (Revised April 2022) Teaching Material Group Functions at the Maersk Group By: David J. Collis In 2014, seven years after he was appointed CEO of the Danish shipping and oil conglomerate A.P. Møller Maersk (the Maersk Group), Nils Andersen was reexamining the size and role of corporate headquarters in the company he had reshaped as a "premium conglomerate." During his tenure, Andersen had divided what had previously been operated as almost a single entity into separate lines of business, each accountable for its own performance and expected to deal at arms-length with its "sister" businesses, while substantially reducing the size and functions of the corporate headquarters. But as the business units (BUs) and corporate headquarters adjusted to their new roles, new issues surfaced. See more research Paris Staff Vincent Dessain Executive Director → Biography Vincent Dessain Executive Director Vincent Dessain, a Belgian national, is the Executive Director of the Europe Research Center (ERC). Vincent has extensive management and business education experience. He is a co-author of two books in finance, a book chapter on intercultural management and a co-author of a wide variety of articles in academic journals, case studies and course development notes (cases can be found on www.hbsp.harvard.edu or here). He is a frequent guest speaker invited by academia, business and government to speak on topics in management and education. Prior to his appointment at the Europe Research Center, he was Senior Director of Corporate Relationships at INSEAD in Fontainebleau and elected as the representative of the INSEAD administration on the School’s Board of Directors. Earlier in his career, Vincent has been active as a management consultant with Booz-Allen & Hamilton in New York and Paris. His field of consulting was international market entry strategies, financial products, strategy, negotiation and implementation of cross border alliances, financial restructuring, mergers and acquisitions. He has also been active as a Foreign Associate with the law firm Shearman & Sterling in New York in Banking and Finance and as an Advisor to the President of the College of Europe in Bruges, Belgium. Vincent speaks five European languages (French, English, German, Dutch and Italian). He holds a law degree from Leuven University (Belgium), a Business Administration degree from Louvain University (Belgium), an MBA from Harvard Business School (Boston, USA), and a PhD in management and communication from Université Paris VIII, France, on corporate social responsibility. Contact Informationvdessain@hbs.edu Daniela Beyersdorfer Senior Associate Director, Research and Administration Emilie Billaud Assistant Director Elena Corsi Assistant Director Federica Gabrieli Research Associate Shaun Ingledew Research Assistant Tonia Labruyere Research Associate Emer Moloney Senior Researcher Jan Pianca Associate Director, Educational Programs Oksana Sichi Assistant Director, Administration ǁ Global Initiative Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: global@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College