Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia College Today Main menu Current Issue Past Issues Contact Us Winter 2021–22 Roar, Lion, Roar In Memoriam: Bill Steinman, Longtime Sports Information Director GENE BOYARS / COLUMBIA ATHLETICS William C. “Bill” Steinman, Columbia’s former sports information director (SID) who was affectionately nicknamed “Stats” for his prodigious recordkeeping, and encyclopedic knowledge of sports history and statistics, especially when it came to the Lions, died on September 21, 2021. He was 76 and lived in New York City. Steinman was Columbia’s SID from 1984 to 2010, following 14 years as assistant SID, and was well known and highly regarded in the industry nationwide. He was inducted into the Columbia University Athletics Hall of Fame in 2010, and was historian emeritus for Athletics until his death. “Bill’s passion for Columbia was second to none,” said the Campbell Family Director of Intercollegiate Athletics and Physical Education Peter Pilling. “He touched the lives of so many Columbians, from student-athletes and staff members to the countless members of his student staff that he mentored.” “Perhaps Bill’s most significant legacy was in helping shape the professional careers of undergrads,” echoed former SID Kevin DeMarrais ’64, who brought Steinman to Columbia from the then-New York Nets, where Steinman had been head statistician. “He was especially good at working with reporters from Spectator and WKCR, and led several of them to great jobs in newspapers, radio, television and public relations.” Steinman worked closely with four athletics directors, directing media coverage and helping to publicize Columbia’s 1983 run to the NCAA men’s soccer championship game and numerous NCAA fencing championships, among other events. “Bill was a consummate professional whom you could always depend on,” former athletics director M. Dianne Murphy said. “He was a gentle and kind soul, and a wonderful person to engage in conversation. I admired him for doing everything behind the scenes in such an unassuming and quiet way. He was not looking for glory — he loved his job, he loved sports and loved our Columbia Blue.” Steinman received the Distinguished Service Award in 1999 from the Metropolitan Basketball Writers Association, and the following year he was given both the Irving T. Marsh Award from the ECAC Sports Information Directors Association and the Elmore “Scoop” Hudgens Sports Information Director Award from the All-American Football Foundation. In 2010, the College Sports Information Directors of America presented Steinman with a Lifetime Achievement Award. A graduate of Hofstra, Steinman was predeceased in April 2021 by his brother, Jim, a Grammy Award-winning composer. — Alex Sachare ’71 Issue Contents Online Exclusive Greek Myths: Where Are They Now? New York Stilled Life Carlos Cortés ’09 Is Bringing Caribbean Chocolate Culture to the Bronx Cover Story Twice the Talent Features What’s New, Art Hum? The 2021 Lion’s Pride Honors Departments Message from the Dean The Big Picture Letters to the Editor Around the Quads News Briefs Did You Know? Faculty Lounge In Memoriam Look Who’s Talking Roar, Lion, Roar Roar, Lion, Roar In Memoriam Columbia Forum Alumni News Message from the CCAA President Lions Publisher Namrata Tripathi ’01 Is Helping Young Readers Make Sense of the World A Meeting with Picasso Changed This Photographer’s Life Dion Macellari ’83 Makes Art for Hollywood Characters Bookshelf Class Notes Just Married! Obituaries Obituaries Peter L. Zimroth ’63, New York Attorney Dedicated to Public Service Phil Schaap ’73, Noted Jazz Historian, Programmer and Educator Richard M. Froehlich ’85, LAW’88, Affordable Housing Advocate Other Deaths Reported Read it Online Published three times a year by Columbia College for alumni, students, faculty, parents and friends. Columbia Alumni Center 622 W. 113th St., MC 4530, 4th Fl. New York, NY 10025 212-851-7852 cct@columbia.edu CCAA on Facebook CCAA on LinkedIn CCAA on Twitter CCAA YouTube Channel CCAA on Instagram Manage Your Subscription Support CCT Columbia Alumni Center 622 W. 113th St., MC 4530, 4th Fl. New York, NY 10025 212-851-7488 ccalumni@columbia.edu © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination | University Home Page