Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institutional Research & Planning Main navigation Home Fact Book Services Portfolio Infographics Research/Reports Dashboards GT Units of Analysis NSF R&D Expenditures Resources Environmental Scanning Disclosures College of Engineering Public Disclosure Student Achievement Public Disclosure About Our Office Our Team Contact Us Submit a Request Open Search Search Search IRP Home Featured Content What We Do IRP's data-driven products and services help inform decision-making. Click here to find out more Research & Reports We provide insights about Georgia Tech through data analytics and visualizations. Click for research briefs and more IRP Strategic Plan Our vision, mission, and values provide a pathway for expanding our presence. Click to read our strategic plan What is Environmental Scanning? Environmental scanning is the ongoing tracking of trends, occurrences and new developments in an organization's internal and external environment that may have an impact both now and in the future. The results are extremely useful in shaping goals and strategies. Topics of interest include: Demographics Politics and Public Policy Economies Labor Market Education/Academic Technology Research Philanthropy Recently Posted Environmental Scans Ranking 4,500 Colleges by ROI (2022) Georgetown University's Center on Education and the Workforce published a report on Ranking 4,500 Colleges by ROI (2022) using data from the College Scorecard. The rankings include a metric that compares earnings ten years after enrollment with those of workers with a high school diploma as their highest credential. Colleges Will Face Economic Challenges This Fall: Moody's According to InsideHigherEd.com, a report released by Moody's, Converging Forces Will Squeeze Budgets for Many Colleges and Universities, projects institutional expenses will skyrocket in the 2022-2023 academic year due to wage inflation, labor shortages, and a nationwide hiring push. Skills Gaps: A Review of Underlying Concepts and Evidence Employers have long cited an inadequately skilled workforce as the primary reason jobs go unfilled. However, there is considerable debate over whether a mismatch truly exists between workers' skills and employers' needs. A report from the Congressional Research Service, Skills Gaps: A Review of Underlying Concepts and Evidence, notes the possibility of other contributing factors such as: Colleges Scramble to Recruit Students as Enrollment Plunges The Washington Post recently reported that enrollment at colleges nationwide "has shrunk more than five percent since 2019." However, the impact has been greater on regional colleges and universities that serve disadvantaged students. For example, institutions in the western region of Pennsylvania have been affected by stagnant population growth, the pandemic, and increasing wages that make working a more appealing option than studying. Cornell Lowers Credit Cap for Engineers In response to the results of a review of student mental health, Cornell University decided to reduce the maximum number of credits engineering students can take per semester from 23 to 20. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN