Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting Started Common Funding Opportunities Internal Funding Opportunities Collaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting StartedElectronic Research AdministrationPI EligibilityResearch Forms & GuidesSponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting StartedHuman Subjects (IRB)Research Data SecurityFinancial Conflict of InterestAnimal Care (IACUC)Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers Internal Funding Development UofM Internal Funding Opportunities 2022 UTIA-UofM AgriTech Research Collaboration Opportunity In alignment with the Governor's support of the University to pursue agritech research this call stimulates innovative, interdisciplinary, team-based agriculture research, that involves investigators from University of Tennessee Institute of Agriculture (UTIA) and University of Memphis (UofM). The Award is designed to promote new lines of research in a wide range of disciplines and topics that intersect with the agricultural sector. The awards provide seed money to give rise to future external funding. This is not intended as bridging funds or a mechanism to extend ongoing funded research. Learn More 2021 West Cancer Foundation Call for Proposals The University of Memphis (UofM) Division of Research & Innovation is pleased to introduce the West Cancer Foundation Initiative. Established in the fall of 2020, the West Cancer Foundation Initiative was created to cultivate research across the UofM campus in areas that advance cancer treatment, promote community health and wellness, and/or provide supportive patient care. Learn More UofM-Meharry Program to Enhance Collaborative and Interdisciplinary Research The University of Memphis and Meharry Medical College are collaborating to advance research at both institutions. This program is designed to bring researchers from both institutions together to advance research with the specific aim of pursuing external funding. To see full details of this funding opportunity and details on finding a collaborator at the partner institution, click here. Communities of Research Scholars (CoRS) Established in the fall of 2018, CoRS was created to cultivate interdisciplinary discourse and nurture the growth of research across the UofM. Each community is comprised of faculty representing multiple disciplines, perspectives and research approaches with a shared interest in exploring a common research theme. Learn More Fine Arts, Humanities & Social Sciences Support Program To encourage scholarship and growth of externally funded research in the areas of fine arts, humanities, and social sciences, the Division of Research and Innovation is relaunching the program piloted last year. We have incorporated feedback from faculty and made changes to the program. Due to the pandemic we have modified some programs from last year. All funding recipients will be required to propose an article for The Conversation, a service that creates visibility for your work among a national general readership audience, within one year of receipt of funding. Learn More Grantsmithing Services Regardless of your level of experience, everyone can benefit from a second set of eyes. This program, designed to support faculty submiting grants with a total budget of at least $250k, will provide key services including editing, reviewer comments, and help interpreting your proposal in the guidelines of the grant. Our team includes the support of an expert team of grant writers, former program officers, and others familiar with what it takes to win a federal grant. To use these services, please notify research development at least 60 days in advance of your deadline (Researchdev@memphis.edu). Please note that a complete narrative draft is required at least three weeks in advance of the deadline. Springer Nature Editing and Scientific Review The Division of Research and Innovation provides discounts and funding for editing services and scientific review by Spring Nature and also by your peers at other institutions. Learn More Research and Innovation Gap or Bridge Funding In an effort to accelerate research innovation at the University of Memphis, and in line with the University's goal of achieving and sustaining R1 status, the Division of Research and Innovation is creating this process for soliciting a request for soliciting a request for funding. The program is meant to help with funding for research which is encouraged for resubmission by federal funding agencies or foundations, gap funding for researchers, or similar conditions. Learn More Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.