Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Why Cincinnati? Co-op at the University of Cincinnati CPS Strong UC Alerts Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Directory right arrow down arrow Template Free Speech at UC Error REDIRECT - My Bearcat Network REDIRECT - MASS (Learning Commons) REDIRECT - campusrec right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Membership REDIRECT - Hours REDIRECT - Catalyst (AF) REDIRECT - ccjr REDIRECT - CMS REDIRECT - CETL REDIRECT - president REDIRECT - Suicide Prevention REDIRECT - ELC REDIRECT - Event Services right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Services REDIRECT - Venues REDIRECT - Summer Housing REDIRECT - Ohecc REDIRECT - UComm right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Web right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Support REDIRECT - AN REDIRECT - News right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Staff REDIRECT - Branding REDIRECT - Upward Bound REDIRECT - Evaluation Services REDIRECT - Faculty Awards REDIRECT - ce (continuing ed) right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - OLLI REDIRECT - commu REDIRECT - Aspire REDIRECT - Right to know REDIRECT - Army Rotc REDIRECT - Air Force ROTC REDIRECT - gsga REDIRECT - HR right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Staff Success Center REDIRECT - Tools right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - SuccessFactors REDIRECT - Benefits right arrow down arrow REDIRET - EAP REDIRECT - Tuition Remission REDIRECT - Careers REDIRECT - Be Well UC REDIRECT - Winter Season Days REDIRECT - Labor Relations right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Policies REDIRECT - Faculty Senate REDIRECT - IPR REDIRECT - Licensing REDIRECT - International REDIRECT - Olli REDIRECT - Learning Commons REDIRECT - college2career (AR) REDIRECT - General Counsel right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Insurance right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Medical Professional REDIRECT - NCA REDIRECT - Honors right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - International Travel REDIRECT - Honors Seminars REDIRECT - Pre-Approved Experiences REDIRECT - Self-Designed Experiences REDIRECT - Grants REDIRECT - About UHP right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Competencies REDIRECT - Vision The page you requested cannot be found (error 404) REDIRECT - Giving Tuesday (Foundation) REDIRECT - Parking (Campus Services) REDIRECT - Bearcat Card (Campus Services) right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Refund REDIRECT - Mainstreet (Campus Services) right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Resources right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Promo Request REDIRECT - Bookstore (Campus Services) REDIRECT - Vending (Campus Services) REDIRECT - Campusservices right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Printing & Duplicating right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Request for Quote REDIRECT - Printing (Campus Services) REDIRECT - Bursar right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Refunds right arrow down arrow REDIRECT - Tuition Refund Appeals Process Home » Employees Employees In classrooms, on stage, in the lab and in the studio, you'll find UC's most valuable assets — our faculty and staff. UC is one of the largest employers in the Cincinnati region with over 15,000 employees and offers a variety of substantial benefits as well as fabulous growth and development opportunities. Our employees consist of faculty, staff and students who contribute their individual talents and expertise to the university in a wide range of disciplines — supporting the operations of the university, serving a diverse student body and enhancing the local community. Bearcats Landing UC’s faculty and staff intranet that increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Bearcats Landing Login What is Bearcats Landing? Bearcats Landing is a desktop and mobile-friendly platform that develops and strengthens university-wide partnerships to support our future-facing evolution. It provides UC faculty and staff with the role-based tools and resources they need to increase communication and engagement. Bearcats Landing is UC’s employee home base to read news and announcements, discover events and workshops, and find information essential to keeping the university running smoothly. It works to strengthen our professional community and capitalizes on our workplace diversity to empower individuals to be leaders in workplace. Even as our community grows more remote, we are still connected through the information-sharing and collaboration that takes place on Bearcats Landing. Key Features of Bearcats Landing Bearcats Landing includes the tools and resources to make UC’s employee workday easier. Not only can employees find what they need university-wide, they can access information and resources relevant to where they work. University-wide information sharing Read news, announcements, and leadership communications Access enterprise tools and software in a centralized location Search for people, policies, meeting minutes, and events Keep track of procedures, calendars, and deadlines Get help and information from HR, IT@UC, CET&L, the Faculty Enrichment Center, and the Staff Success Center Apply for awards and research funding in one online location Reach out to experts and colleagues from around the university to connect and collaborate College and business unit specific information Find out what is happening in your own college or business unit Stay up to date with teaching resources offered in your college Access HR forms in a centralized, easy to find location Connect with colleagues and find out what they’ve been doing Find people to help you more easily get your job done Frequently Asked Questions If you are a UC faculty or staff member, you can access even more information on the Bearcats Landing FAQ page. What is Bearcats Landing? right arrow down arrow Bearcats Landing is UC’s faculty/staff intranet. It offers online access to critical company information, documents, tools, and resources. Bearcats Landing looks and operates much like a website allowing you to share organizational news and events as well as information about a specific project, meeting, and/or documents with other members of your department, college, or entire university. How do I get to Bearcats Landing? right arrow down arrow If you are already on our public website, uc.edu, you can visit the footer at the bottom of any page. A direct link to Bearcats Landing appears under the heading “UC Tools”. You can also access Bearcats Landing by typing “my.uc.edu” into your browser. Since this is an Office365 platform, you may need to log in using your UC credentials, just like you’re logging into your email. Once you are there, you can use the homepage links or the search bar to find what you need. What information can be found on the Bearcats Landing homepage? right arrow down arrow Find quick and convenient access to all the links and tools you need to get your job done in the navigation at the top of the homepage. Under the app launcher, access customizable quick links to all your Microsoft Office tools. On the homepage, view leadership announcements, university internal announcements, events, and college/business unit directories. Visit my.uc.edu to explore more. Why should UC faculty and staff use Bearcats Landing? right arrow down arrow Bearcats Landing is the one place to find all the tools and resources you need to get your job done. Instead of bookmarking various sites, searching for information on a personal drive, contacting several people in a row to find information, or being inundated with emails, start your day with my.uc.edu and your area’s homepage to catch up with the latest in communications related to what you do. Who has access to the Bearcats Landing? right arrow down arrow UC faculty, staff, emeritus, affiliates, and student workers (including Grad Assistants) all can log in with their UC credentials to see the information on Bearcats Landing. Who does NOT have access to Bearcats Landing? right arrow down arrow Students enrolled at UC (with the exception of student workers) and members of the public will receive an error when following links to Bearcats Landing sites and pages. Designed for UC Faculty and Staff While Bearcats Landing is a project that was initiated by the Next Lives Here strategic direction, the team worked hard to listen to faculty and staff from around the university about what they wanted on their intranet. If you have an idea for what to add or improve upon, let us know! Email Michele Ralston or Andrea Rahtz with your idea or suggestion, or contact your area’s site manager, which can be found at the bottom of every site’s homepage. What employees are saying about Bearcats Landing… Lindner College of Business “So many units, departments and teams within Lindner are innovating how they serve students and work together more efficiently. Launching Bearcats Landing now is the perfect internal communications complement to how we are improving our college operations. Additionally, it will create more opportunity to collaborate and communicate across UC.” College of Arts and Sciences “Our college is excited to have a place to virtually call home, not only for the cultural connectedness, but as a unified place for internal communications.” Office of the Registrar "Our office provides so much information to faculty and staff at the university–it's great to have a site that everyone can go to find all this information in one place." UC International "This is a great place for UC faculty and staff to not only learn more about what we do, but quickly access much needed information. UC is a global university, so this information affects everyone’s work here. It’s great to have this increased visibility for our resources and the work our office does.” University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top