Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity Home About People Research Resources Training Programs News Site Navigation Home About History People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdocs Students Research Resources Training Programs News News Nunn & colleagues explore barriers to PrEP uptake May 5, 2022 Brown University School of Public Health's Dr. Amy Nunn and Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health colleague Dr. Lorraine Dean led research examining barriers to the HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis drug known as PrEP. Read More Grigsby, international colleagues explore COVID-19's impact on health behaviors May 3, 2022 A recent study published in Preventative Medicine Reports highlighted an international effort to examine COVID-19's often overlooked impact on people's health behaviors. CHPHE's Diana Grigsby-Toussaint was among the study's key collaborators. Photo credit: Neil Moralee, https://www.flickr.com/photos/[email protected]/50354685268 Read More Collaborative effort yields report on home ownership amongst Black Rhode Islanders Mar 14, 2022 A collaboration between a wide array of Black community members throughout Rhode Island and faculty and students at Brown University has come together to conduct The State of Black Rhode Island Project. One component of this project is to produce a series of reports that address a variety of important topics that impact Black Rhode Islanders. Read More At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Feb 15, 2022 News from Brown, February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read More Brown researchers develop a novel measure to assess multilevel resilience among African American/Black Adults living with HIV Feb 8, 2022 Dr. Akilah Dulin and colleagues recently developed and evaluated the psychometric properties of long and short forms of the Multilevel Resilience Resource Measure for African American/Black Adults Living with HIV. These measures provide a comprehensive framework to examine resilience and HIV-related outcomes, and can inform resilience-building interventions to reduce racial and ethnic health disparities. Read more about the Multilevel Resilience Resource Measure in AIDS and Behavior. Read More Q&A with Dr. Alison Tovar Jan 23, 2022 Dr. Alison Tovar shares her research interests and the experiences that have shaped her career. Read More Q&A with Dr. Madina Agènor Dec 15, 2021 Dr. Madina Agènor shares her research interests and the experiences that have shaped her career. Read More Nunn collaborates with Black pastors to change assumptions, spread information on access to medical care Jul 16, 2021 Combining research and ground work, CHPHE's Dr. Amy Nunn collaborates with Black pastors to reduce HIV infections and address COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy. Read More Toussaint: Racial, geographic inequities contribute to "climate gap" Apr 27, 2021 CHPHE'S Diana Grigsby-Toussaint, Associate Professor of Behavioral Sciences and Epidemiology, discussed the intersection of racial and geographic inequities with marginalized populations' exposure to the effects of climate change, pollution, and their associated health effects, in a recent Healthline article. For the full article, go to https://www.healthline.com/health-news/how-climate-change-disproportionately-affects-people-of-color. Read More Nunn, Dunsiger recognized for excellence Apr 27, 2021 CHPHE's Drs Amy Nunn and Shira Dunsiger have each been awarded a Brown University School of Public Health 2021 Dean's Award for Excellence: Dr. Nunn for her achievements in community engagement; and Dr. Dunsiger for her accomplishments in teaching. For more about their work, and to learn about other awardees, see https://www.brown.edu/academics/public-health/news/2021/04/announcing-2021-deans-awards-faculty-excellence. Read More Pages 1 2 3 next › last » Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity Brown University Box G-121-8 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6550 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top