Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Academic Coaching Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Academic Coaching Academic Coaching is Open Academic Coaching is currently open for Summer 2022! Academic Coaching Summer Hours: Monday-Thursday, 1pm-8pm Online appointments only Online appoinments available Schedule a Coaching Appointment Sometimes students don’t have one course that they find challenging, but they want help getting organized and learning to be efficient and effective with their study time. For instances like these, we have our globally-focused, free program, Academic Coaching. In Academic Coaching, you will book an appointment to meet one-on-one with an Academic Coach for one hour, as often as once per week. During your first meeting the coach will walk you through a questionnaire to determine your strengths, interests, and areas for improvement. Your Academic Coach will work with you on new strategies or exercises to try before your next meeting. Later meetings will allow you and your Academic Coach to tailor new approaches to develop the best study and test taking habits for your unique goals and strengths. Academic Coaching Topics Academic Coaches will tailor the topics to meet students' needs and goals. However, common issues that our coaches help students address include the following: Time Management Effective Notetaking and Reading Strategies Motivation Test Taking Skills Effective Resource Utilization Wellness and Balancing Priorities Professional Development Studies demonstrate that students who participate in Academic Coaching are 10 to 15% more likely to persist toward their degree and have higher graduation rates than their peers. The Academic Coaches Academic Coaches are your UC peers who have been selected based on their: Interest in working with their peers to achieve academic success Understanding of study strategies and motivation techniques Academic Coaches are provided resources and support in order to encourage success-building practices and habits in their students. Meet the Academic Coaches Apply to be an Academic Coach The Impact of Academic Coaching Students who participate in Academic Coaching experience a distinct impact! The secret is starting early and being consistent. We’ve found that most students need to complete five or more appointments to see an increase of nearly a full point in their GPA. This data applies to students from every college, in all years of their academic career. But, if the numbers don’t convince, listen to what your peers have to say: My Academic Coach was so kind and explained things so that they were super easy to understand. I felt very comfortable talking with [her]. My Academic Coach was well prepared, [with] good studying exercises and activities. Opened my mind to many things. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top