COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Activities Council In This Section SAC Home About SAC Event Schedule Join a Committee Campus Recreation Home Hippodrome Drag Show Officer and Chairperson Positions are OpenJoin Our Team Make Memories with SAC! The Student Activities Council (SAC) serves as the programming board for Wichita State University. We strive to create meaningful experiences for all Shockers through the events, activities, and opportunities we offer. View Events Join a Committee Hippodrome About SAC SAC members coordinate over 50 plus social, cultural, and educational events each year that are open to all Shockers. Events include entertainers like hypnotists and comedians, interactive events and competitions, road trips, and programs that showcase the talent of fellow Shockers like the Hippodrome Talent Show. Most all of our events are free to students and some admission or registration rates apply to faculty, staff, and community members. Check out our Event Listing to see what is going on. Any student with a 2.0 grade point average or higher is invited to join one of our committees. SAC members gain valuable experience in event planning, management and marketing. They are provided many opportunities to connect with college entertainers, vendors, WSU administration, and build lifelong relationships with their SAC peers. Committees meet weekly throughout the semester, visit our Membership Page to learn more. SAC Committees Become a Member Arts & Education This committee plans events that expose students to experiences that expand the mind through arts, culture, and education. Examples of events include the annual Arts & Crafts Fair, performing arts programs like Kenya Safari Acrobats, and our Adulting Series. Family & Community This committee connects on-campus and off-campus experiences. The group sponsors discounted tickets to off-campus attractions and sponsors long-standing family programs like Trunk or Treat and Family Carnival. Interactive Events Members plan and coordinate events that encourage a little friendly competition like sporting tournaments, Gamefest, BINGO, and road trips to professional games like the KC Royals at Kauffman Stadium. Marketing Committee The SAC Street Team is integral to the promotion of events and experiences offered by SAC. This group plans and drives the promotion of events, tables around campus, distributes posters to on and off-campus locations. Shocker Night Life SNL livens campus up with performers, live-music, entertainers, and the annual Wichita State Drag Show. Traditions This committee is essential to strengthening the connection to campus through long-standing traditions like Homecoming and Hippodrome Talent Competition. Follow Us facebook twitter instagram 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©