Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Student Life Experience a community that values critical thinking, encourages self-discovery and embraces all walks of life — all surrounded by natural majesty that will inspire your creativity and deepen your focus. Division of Student & Campus Life Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Graduate School Academics Cornell serves all students — undergraduate, graduate and professional — and strives to promote an educational environment where you can thrive in pursuit of your academic and personal goals. Learn more about these important resources. New Student Programs Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives Cornell Student Experience Undergraduate Research Office of Global Learning Learning Strategies Center Graduate Student Resources Get Involved Our organizations, clubs, groups and activities are as diverse as our student body. Life at Cornell offers abundant opportunities for you to find connections with others and grow as a leader. Clubs & Student Organizations David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Career Services Sorority & Fraternity Life Identity Resources Cornell’s Military Community Cornell Outdoor Education Intramural Sports Families of Students Whether you are looking for ways to help your student transition to college life or just want to stay up-to-date on the latest news and athletics scores, there are a variety of resources to help parents and guardians navigate Cornell. Parents and guardians of current undergraduate students are encouraged to subscribe to the monthly newsletter. Parents Website Families of New Students First-Year Family Weekend Cornell Health: Resources for families News & Information: Cornell Chronicle Parent Newsletter Sign-Up Cornell Traditions Dragon Day Each year in late March, first-year students from the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning (AAP) create and parade an enormous dragon across campus. Accompanied by AAP students in costume and heckled by rivals from the College of Engineering, the dragon lumbers to the Arts Quad to be consumed by a symbolic bonfire. Formalized by AAP students in the 1950s, Dragon Day's roots are actually traced back to the antics of the architecture Class of 1901. Learn More Chimes Concerts The heartbeat of campus life, the Cornell Chimes have been marking the hours and chiming concerts for more than a century. The original set of bells first rang out at the university's opening ceremonies October 7, 1868. The chimes continue to ring daily concerts, making it one of the largest and most frequently played set of chimes in the world. Learn More Homecoming Meet current students, alumni, faculty, and staff as you cheer on Cornell in the traditional homecoming football game. Recent homecoming events have included the Big Red Band, a firework and laser show, and a carnival. Learn More Slope Day The ultimate celebration of the last day of classes, Slope Day continues a century-long tradition as a year-end gathering. Live musical performances are the main feature of this Cornell community fete. Learn More Cornell Ice Hockey Big Red ice hockey at Lynah Rink is one of Cornell's most treasured spectator sports. Join the "Lynah Faithful," as they are known, and celebrate with the Cowbell cheer. Loading... Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube