Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift All articles related to "faculty stories": Jesse Bump, Nancy Turnbull receive inaugural Sastry Awards for outstanding teaching Jesse Bump and Nancy Turnbull are the 2022 recipients of a new award recognizing outstanding teaching in public health at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Is helping cells self-destruct the key to treating COVID-19? Radiation biologist Kristopher Sarosiek zeroes in on why the severity of COVID-19 varies so widely. A fellowship to help clinicians fight burnout – and climate change The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship is training a dozen teams on activating their communities to improve patient well-being. Marcia Castro named AAAS Fellow Marcia Castro of Harvard Chan School has been named a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Hidden in plain view Bob Farese Jr. is an expert in how lipid synthesis and storage may lead to disease—and an accomplished amateur photographer. Faculty News Faculty awards and honors, appointments and promotions, and books. A global health ‘conductor’ returns to Harvard Chan School Muhammad Pate, a former Nigerian health minister, plans to explore trends that will shape the future of global health, and share his perspective as a practitioner September 1, 2021—When Muhammad Pate became head of Nigeria’s National Primary Health… Joe Allen’s focus on clean indoor air A Science magazine profile of healthy buildings expert Joseph Allen described his research on how indoor air quality affects human health and cognition, his work advising companies on ventilation and air filtration, and his efforts during the pandemic… Epidemiologist Albert Hofman knighted by the Netherlands Albert Hofman, chair of Harvard Chan School's Department of Epidemiology, has been named a Knight of the Order of the Lion of the Netherlands for exceptional service to the community. Dean Michelle Williams elected to Americares Board of Directors Michelle Williams, dean of Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, has been elected to a three-year term on the board of directors of Americares. The board oversees all aspects of the health-focused relief organization’s health programs, including… Pagination navigation 1 2 3 … 31 32 33 Author add969 Posted on August 26, 2016 May 29, 2019 Categories Uncategorized Related Articles microbiome Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College