Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Curricular Resource Center Matched Advising Program for Sophomores Curricular Resource Center Matched Advising Program for Sophomores The Matched Advising Program for Sophomores (MAPS) is a year-long peer mentoring program that focuses on various aspects of navigating sophomore year at Brown. For the 2020-21 year, the program will coordinate: Matches between sophomore mentees and junior/senior mentors. Facilitated conversation opportunities for the mentor/mentee pairs. An asynchronous workshop on setting goals aligned with personal values. An asynchronous workshop on how to choose a concentration. A workshop on what is independent research or senior capstone projects: available Winter '22. Discussions about other topics such as growth mindet and reflecting on meaning and purpose. By pairing second-year students with upperclassmen mentors for one-on-one and group-advising support, MAPS enables sophomores to feel better prepared to navigate concentration choices, career and research opportunities, "sophomore slump," and more. Applications: Applications for the 2021-2022 school year are now open! Please apply to be a mentee here and a mentor here. Applications are due: Mentee application: Saturday, September 25th at 11:59 pm ET Mentor application: Saturday, October 2nd at 11:59 pm ET Advising Hours: Have questions about MAPS? Looking for general peer advising? Visit the CRC homepage for our advising schedule during reading period and finals. You may also write with any questions to [email protected]! (Please note that the MAPS team will be offline starting Monday, May 10th; messages will be responded to as soon as possible during the summer term.) MAPS Coordinators The 2021-22 MAPS Co-Coordinators are Alexa Ara '22, Kelly Fan '23, and Samantha Hong '23. MAPS Program 2020-2021 During the 2020-21 year, MAPS will operate remotely. Mentors and mentees will be encouraged to meet via Zoom, FaceTime, and other online tools, while the coordinators will use Google Classroom (an online platform accessed via your Brown email) to post resources, share program announcements, and connect mentors and mentees! Additionally, the MAPS coordinators will host monthly workshops with opportunities for synchronous and asynchronous engagement. These workshops will be open to all sophomores. MAPS Learning Goals for Mentees: Increase comfort with accessing on-campus resources and articulating wants and needs from academic/advising relationships. Develop a meaningful mentoring relationship with an older student in order to gain knowledge and experience about navigating decisions and choices that arise in sophomore year and beyond. Think critically about choosing a concentration, exploring career paths, deepening engagement with learning, and making choices as a journey/growth process. Questions/comments/suggestions? Please email [email protected] and/or use this anonymous feedback form to let us know how we’re doing or to provide suggestions on how we can improve the program! Resources: Choosing a Concentration Workshop Choosing a Concentration as an international student Course Planning Worksheet MAPS List of Campus Resources Related Files Choosing a concentration_ Int'l Undergrads.pdf Home Independent Concentrations Independent Studies Leavetaking Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) Matched Advising Program for Sophomores (MAPS) Fellowship, Internship, and Research Experiences (FIRe) Theories in Action Symposium (TiA) Contact Print this Page Share this Page Curricular Resource Center Brown University Box 1825 167 Angell Street Ground Level Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3013 Fax n/a [email protected] There are no events available. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory