Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Admission HOME Admission In This Section Admission Overview Apply Visit Affordability Majors & Minors Choosing BC Contact Admission Graduate Admission Offices Inquire As a Jesuit, Catholic university that challenges students to use their education to address society’s pressing needs, we compel you to combine reflection and self-discovery with action. We encourage you to look inward and act outwardly—to take advantage of the many reflection opportunities here and translate your growth into contributions to the common good. Explore BC Resources Diversity at BC Retreat Opportuniies PULSE Service Learning Office of Student Involvement Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good Choosing BC We’re dedicated to the formation of the whole person—to your academic, personal, spiritual, and social growth. Our Core Curriculum broadens your intellectual horizons while shaping your character. Learn more about the BC difference. Majors & Minors Life at Boston College Our Jesuit, Catholic tradition Apply We make the process as smooth as possible and ensure that your completed application receives careful, thoughtful, and deliberate attention from our admission committee. Undergraduate requirements International students Transfer students Homeschooled students Veteran & ROTC students QuestBridge applicants Information for Counselors Affordability We’re committed to ensuring that all admitted students—no matter their socioeconomic backgrounds—can succeed at BC. We're one of just 19 private U.S. universities that are need-blind and meet the full demonstrated need of all accepted students. How aid works Types of financial aid Applying for aid Choosing BC Apply Affordability Snapshot of the Class of 2025 39,847 Total applications 34% AHANA students 19% Acceptance rate View the Full Class of 2025 Profile “We seek students who are bright, curious, passionate, and engaged. As a Jesuit university, Boston College emphasizes liberal arts education, character development, and the cultivation of leaders. Our mission is to graduate men and women who know how to think, make decisions, communicate, and act with integrity.” John Mahoney, Vice Provost for Enrollment Management Now Playing: A Welcome Tradition Each year, we welcome our newest students to campus with a special video. Explore the Boston College tradition! > BC YouTube The BC Difference Research Discover answers to society’s most pressing questions while collaborating with acclaimed professors and your peers across disciplines. As an undergraduate, you can lead research projects and gain practical experience in your fields of interests. Study Abroad We encourage all students to explore a variety of options that allow them to see the world while learning more about themselves and disciplines: Spend a semester, year, or summer studying abroad, or travel while researching, volunteering, or interning. Careers & Internships How do you discover and pursue a meaningful calling? What most sparks your interest? Our Career Center is dedicated to helping you answer these questions and guiding you toward purposeful opportunities. Housing & Dining BC is renowned for its sense of community that emanates across campus. Choose from 29 residence halls and 13 dining locations, offering a variety of experiences and healthy options. In fact, 85% of undergraduates live on campus. Academics Select from nearly 60 majors to find your focus while learning to think across disciplines. Our dynamic, rigorous approach to liberal arts education features our Core Curriculum and prepares you to thrive in a range of rewarding careers. Get Involved Make a difference, meet new friends, and learn new skills—on campus, in local communities, and around the world. With over 300 student-run organizations, you have plenty of options to stay engaged. Humans of Boston College Get to know Boston College, one Eagle at a time. Nominate a BC student, faculty or staff member, or alumnus today! Experience Our Campus Explore our magnificent campus, noted for its Collegiate Gothic architecture, award-winning Stokes Hall, and Bapst Library, consistently ranked as one of the most beautiful college libraries in the country. Schedule a Visit BC Admission on Social Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College