Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home Emergency Preparedness Emergency Resources Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How is emergency information distributed? Texas A&M uses the Code Maroon emergency notification system to alert the campus community of possible emergency situations. What is Code Maroon? Code Maroon is Texas A&M's emergency notification system. How will I be notified? Code Maroon uses multiple notification methods to reach the campus community. For example, alerts are sent via text message, Texas A&M Email (Neo), KAMU-FM radio, campus cable television, Emergency Alert System (EAS) radios, computer alerts, classroom alerts, Twitter, and RSS. How can I prepare? An emergency is an unexpected serious situation demanding immediate action. There are many different types of emergencies that we may experience at Texas A&M, due to our size and location. However, there are several resources to help members of the campus community be better prepared for the unexpected, such as the 12th Man Emergency Playbook, or the Emergency Procedures webpage. How do I receive Code Maroon notification if I'm a parent or a friend of the school? Anyone can receive alerts by subscribing to the Code Maroon RSS feed or following "@TAMUCodeMaroon" on Twitter. For more information, visit the Code Maroon site. Why do I receive Code Maroon before/after my friends? Code Maroon messages are sent to cell phone carriers within minutes. The cell phone carriers then distribute the message per their individual priorities and protocols which are not controlled by the university. If I am away from my phone, how will I know if a Code Maroon has been issued? Text messages are only one way Code Maroon messages are sent. Other methods include email (Neo account), classroom speakers, desktop pop-ups, KAMU-FM radio, campus cable television, and emergency alert system (EAS) radios located in buildings across the campus. If a Code Maroon is issued, how will I know what to do or where to go? Code Maroon messages are short and concise, due to the limited number of characters that may be sent via SMS text message (maximum 140 characters). In the event of an emergency, please refer to the Texas A&M Emergency webpage for additional details and information. What do I do if I live on campus and the campus is evacuated? In the event campus is evacuated for an extended period of time, follow the emergency instructions posted on the Texas A&M Emergency webpage directing you to safe locations within the community. Detailed information about where to go will be provided via the Texas A&M Emergency webpage at the time of the emergency. What do I do if I live off campus? In event there is a Code Maroon issued and you are off campus, check the Texas A&M Emergency website, stay alert for Code Maroons, monitor local media outlets, and avoid the immediate area of the incident. Who do I contact about developing a building/department specific Evacuation Plan or Continuity of Operations Plan? For assistance with Building Evacuation Plans or Continuity of Operations Plans, please contact Fire & Life Safety or the Office of Safety & Security. Emergency: Dial 911 Facility Emergency: Dial 845-4311 (5-4311 from a campus phone) Emergency Numbers Health Science Center Emergency Numbers Code Maroon HSC Alert Emergency Announcements Emergency Plan Emergency Procedures Health Science Center Emergency Plans Communications Continuity Planning After Action Review Training Presentations Campus Safety Awareness Series Frequently Asked Questions Emergency Contacts Resources Students Faculty/Staff Visitors Community State & Federal About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top