Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project Menu Search for: Welcome The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project Monograph (June 2004) Executive Summary Introduction Publications How To… Geocoding Generating ABSMs Analytic Methods Multi-level Modeling Visual Display Tools Case Example U.S. Census Tract Poverty Data Glossary Who We Are COVID-19 Resources The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project 2.0 The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project Welcome to the Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project Our purpose is to offer clear concepts, methods, data, and programming code to improve monitoring of and action to address health inequities, accomplished by using geocoding to link area-based social metrics to public health data. We offer three sets of resources, all freely accessible, via this website: The original Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project Monograph, which we first published on June 30, 2004, and have updated since. COVID-19 resources, which we published on May 15, 2020. The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project 2.0 – a new training with resources, that we are launching in June 2022. We encourage you to explore our resources – and to check in for the next major round of updates in summer 2022! The Public Health Disparities Geocoding Project is led by 3 team members – Prof. Nancy Krieger (PI), Dr. Jarvis T. Chen, and Pamela D. Waterman. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College