Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Ph.D. Program SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Simmons Academics Ph.D. Program Admissions Information A Guide to Graduate Studies Request Information Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Education The doctoral program in the Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development is a research-intensive program that leads to a Ph.D. in Education. Graduates of our program are prepared for academic and research careers, and our program offers the following: Apprenticeships with top scholars across fields of study in education and human development Career mentoring in the professional work of publishing, teaching, presenting, and grant-writing Disciplinary research concentrations in teaching & learning, education policy & leadership, and the applied physiology content areas of metabolic energy expenditure & performance, autonomic function and thermoregulation, and global health innovations. Opportunities for professional enhancement and experiences collaborating across disciplines and on community-, school-, and agency-based projects (Center on Research and Evaluation, Center on Communities and Education, Research in Mathematics Education, and the Bush Institute) Program Structure Doctoral students must complete a minimum of 54 credit hours during a three-year full-time program prior to the dissertation year. Students must enroll in a minimum of 9 credit hours of coursework per term and be full-time residents in the Dallas area for the first three academic years of the program. In addition to coursework, students apprentice for 20 hours each week on research projects during the academic calendar year, for which they typically receive fellowship stipends, benefits, and waived tuition. The program is a model in which students complete a core set of courses as a cohort and a unique set of electives and research experiences. The core curriculum includes the following courses: Quantitative Statistics for Educational Research (with lab) Intermediate Quantitative Statistics in Education (with lab) Assessment Methods I Quantitative Research Methods I Quantitative Research Methods II Introduction to Qualitative Research in Education Synthesis and Integration Foundations of Educational Research Seminar in Educational Research Program Evaluation Advanced Methods (as determined by the student and advisor) Degree Requirements Degree requirements include the following milestones: 60 hours of coursework (up to 6 credit hours can be transferred) Qualifying exams Major area paper Conference presentation Manuscript submission Dissertation with an oral defense Teaching competency Ph.D. Program Course Descriptions Admission Research Faculty Students NCLII Ph.D. in Education Guide Contact Alumni Request info Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-1216 Fax: 214-768-4313 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Suite 345 P.O. Box 750114 Dallas, Texas 75275-0114 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter