Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Pablo G. Debenedetti Dean for Research Website Office of the Dean for Research Phone 609-258-5500 Bio Pablo G. Debenedetti is the Class of 1950 Professor in Engineering and Applied Science, professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering, and dean for research. His office supports Princeton’s research enterprise by administering research funding, building relationships with corporations and foundations, licensing University inventions, ensuring research integrity and overseeing research involving human subjects and animals. In his research, Debenedetti applies theoretical and computational tools to the molecular engineering of aqueous systems, in areas ranging from the long-term preservation of biomolecules and pharmaceutical compounds to water desalination. His interests span the thermodynamics and statistical mechanics of liquids and glasses, protein thermodynamics, nucleation, metastability and the origin of homochirality in biological systems. He is the author of one book, Metastable Liquids, and more than 300 scientific articles. His professional honors include the Presidential Young Investigator Award from the National Science Foundation (1987); the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award from the Dreyfus Foundation (1989); a Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship (1991); the Professional Progress (1997), Walker (2008) and Institute Lecturer (2013) awards from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers; the John M. Prausnitz Award in Applied Chemical Thermodynamics (2001); the Joel Henry Hildebrand Award in the Theoretical and Experimental Chemistry of Liquids from the American Chemical Society (2008); and the Guggenheim Medal from the Institution of Chemical Engineers (2017). Debenedetti received the Distinguished Teacher Award from Princeton’s School of Engineering (2008) and the President’s Award for Distinguished Teaching (2008), Princeton’s highest distinction for teaching. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the National Academy of Sciences, and a Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the American Physical Society. Debenedetti obtained his B.S. degree in chemical engineering from Buenos Aires University, Argentina, and his M.S and Ph.D. degrees, also in chemical engineering, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He joined the faculty of Princeton University in 1985. Our Leadership Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice