COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW School of Education Section Menu College of Applied Studies Contact Us Advising Faculty & Staff Programs Licensure Renewal Courses Kansas Mentor & Induction Center School of Education Research Showcase Performance Assessment System for Students (PASS) Accreditation Dyslexia Men of Color-Educators of Tomorrow MOC- Educators of Tomorrow Application SOE News Become a teacher Add an endorsement Earn a master's degree Make a Difference The School of Education at Wichita State University offers undergraduate and graduate programs for those interested in pursuing a career in teaching and/or continuing in their professional development. The undergraduate programs prepare individuals in early childhood unified, elementary, middle level or secondary education. These programs also prepare a student for the Kansas teacher licensure exams required by the State of Kansas for application for a teacher license or endorsement to teach in a public or private school setting. Graduate programs are available for individuals who currently hold a teaching license to continue their professional development in Learning and Instructional Design. For those individuals who already possess a bachelor's degree and want to teach, the Transition to Teaching alternative licensure program supporting those wanting a career change to teaching is available. Learn more about teacher education at WSU Men of Color - Educators of Tomorrow WSU Recognized for National Excellence in Educator Prep Our teacher preparation programs are accredited by The Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP). CAEP Accreditation Teacher Preparation Standards SOE News Dining and Dialogue Recently Dr. Jim Granada, chair of the School of Education hosted five students joined by Dr. Carmen Tafolla of Texas and Dr. Gwen Mukes of California for an evening of learning, dialogue, and networking. 2021 Kansas Teacher of Promise: Elementary Education Valeria Esparza named Kansas Teacher of Promise: Elementary Education 2021 Kansas Teacher of Promise: Secondary Education Kiara Suarez-Sosa named Kansas Teacher of Promise: Secondary Education 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©