Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu Public Service and Agriculture Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift State Veterinarian Veterinary Diagnostic Center Animal Health Programs Meat and Poultry Inspection LPH Home SCMPID Home Establishment Directory Inspection Laws and Regulations Label Approval Process Pre-Approval Requirements Contact Us SCMPID Staff Avian Influenza LPH Employment Opportunities (NEW!) Google Maps Directions SC Meat-Poultry Inspection Department (SCMPID) Director of SCMPID: James H. Hollis, DVM, MS hollis@clemson.edu CONTACT US: Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., 803-788-8747 MISSION: To protect the health of consumers by providing a comprehensive inspection service to assure that meat and poultry products are safe, wholesome and accurately labeled. WHAT WE DO: The S. C. Meat Inspection Department was established by the State Legislature in 1967 by enactment of inspection laws and regulations. The State Poultry Inspection Act followed in 1969. (Inspección de carne y aves de corral de Carolina del Sur) Both laws and regulations were developed to comply with all essential features of the federal meat and poultry laws and regulations. These programs are jointly and equally financed by state and federal funding. The USDA, Food Safety and Inspection Service provides federal regulatory oversight and support for training and laboratory services. This department is a public health regulatory agency with public service and educational functions. TEXT TELEPHONE (TDD / TT / TTY): (Teletipo (TDD/TT/TTY) Note: If you require language translation or interpretation, please notify our office at least ten days prior to the event. Equipment Telephone accessibility for people who are deaf or hard of hearing is available in the offices of Access & Equity, Cooper Library, Human Resources, Orientation, Leadership & Disability Services, Telecommunications and the University Police Station at Clemson University. This equipment may be used for in-coming or out-going calls. NON-DISCRIMINATORY STATEMENT: (Declaración de no discriminación) Clemson University and USDA prohibit discrimination in all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, family status, veteran's status, pregnancy or genetic information, status as a parent (in education and training programs and activities), because all or part of an individual's income is derived from any public assistance program, or retaliation. If you experience any issues accessing online content, please contact us at 803-788-2260. If you require language translation or interpretation, please notify our office at least ten days prior to the event. To file a complaint of discrimination, write or call: Clemson University Office of Access & Equity 223 Brackett Hall PO BOX 345404 Clemson 29634-5404 (864) 656-3181 (voice) (864) 656-3182 (FAX) OR: USDA Director, Office of Civil Rights 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20250-9410 (800) 795-3272 (voice) QUICK LINKS USDA USDA FSIS Atlanta District USDA Consumer Complaints Links available en Español: Inspección de carne y aves de corral de Carolina del Sur Requisitos de aprobación previa para establecimientos oficiales de productos cárnicos y de aves de corral Declaración de no discriminación Teletipo (TDD/TT/TTY) click poster to enlarge view Links are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any non-affiliated organizations, businesses, products, services, or content of these pages by Clemson University Livestock Poultry Health or Clemson University. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Livestock Poultry Health PO Box 102406, Columbia, SC 29224-2406 (500 Clemson Rd, Columbia, SC 29229) 803-788-2260 Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request