Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Masters and Specialist Programs Current: Student Affairs Student Affairs, M.Ed. The Master of Education in Student Affairs program provides students with a transformative learning experience founded on theory-to-practice. In producing practitioner-scholars, the faculty combine in-class learning with graduate assistantships / full-time employment enhanced with practicum and internship experiences. The program’s strong network of alumni help foster connections across the field and in and beyond the region. Students graduate prepared to successfully support students with strong collaboration, leadership, and communication skills based in theory and ethical practice. Student Handbook Student Affairs Brochure Field Experience Manual Academic Calendar Apply Now Overview The M.Ed. Program in Student Affairs at Clemson University is designed to produce practitioner-scholars with skills to work in any student affairs or student support functional area. This program highlights the ways that student affairs and academic affairs complement one another in recruiting, admitting, supporting, developing, retaining, and graduating students. The student affairs program curriculum is mapped to the ACPA / NASPA professional competencies. Our work and learning together centers students and contributes to higher education in a variety of ways, in a broad range of positions, and in diverse institutional settings. Ultimately, students in our program learn how divisions of student affairs function as interconnected working units, and how divisions of student affairs complement the academic mission of institutions and enhance student learning in higher education. In our program we hope to prepare: Informed practitioners who apply research and scholarship to individual contexts and broader learning environments. Active practitioners who engage in service and professional development at the campus, local, state, regional, and national levels. Introspective practitioners who make ethical and critical decisions in pursuit of just and equitable experiences and environments. Collaborative practitioners who create, implement, and support equitable opportunities and environments to address emerging issues in community with others. Program Goals Students in this program can expect: a curriculum aligned with the ACPA/NASPA Professional Competencies graduate assistantships and field experiences selected by the students and their advisors enhancing students’ professional interests professional development opportunities through graduate student organizations, professional conferences, and leadership opportunities a learning experienced informed by the cohort model which brings together students from varied backgrounds and identifies and informs the learning in and out of the classroom an immersive learning environment that develops practitioners ready to engage in student and academic affairs work, informed by courses, projects, individual and group projects, student involvement, and field experiences Program Evaluation Data Each year, the program conducts an exit survey that assesses recent graduates' learning outcomes and perceptions of program experiences (see 2019-2020 exit survey results). Consistently, over the past several years, recent graduates have noted they appreciate the following components of Clemson's program: Student-centered faculty who get to know students as individuals The ability to work with their faculty advisor to design a unique course of study that furthers their professional goals The rich variety of functional areas and institutional settings for practicum and internship experiences A strong program alumni network connecting students with prospective employers Collaboration between the student affairs M.Ed. program and the Clemson University Division of Student Affairs, which facilitates learning in and out of the classroom Recognition of the program by student affairs practitioners around the country The high job placement rate of the program and the assistance they receive from the faculty to effectively search for, acquire and transition into their first professional position. The program also periodically collects data in the form of alumni surveys, which are collected from program graduates one and three years after graduation. The 2015-16 alumni survey results are available. Admission Requirements Admission to the Program The Counselor Education-Student Affairs master’s program admits students for a fall (full-time students) or spring (part-time students currently working in higher education) entrance terms. Only complete applications are considered for admission. Academic admission does not guarantee admission into the program. Students must obtain an assistantship for full admission. Application Deadlines January 15, for full-time students to enroll in the fall semester Final decisions are typically made by mid-February October 1, for part-time students already working in Higher Education to enroll in the spring semester Final decisions are typically made by mid-October Please note that academic admission does not guarantee acceptance into the program. You must also secure a graduate assistantship or be employed full time in a higher education setting. Application Requirements To be considered for the Program, applicants must: Have a bachelor’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Secure a graduate assistantship position at Clemson or full-time employment in a higher education setting Submit an online Graduate School application which requires: Unofficial transcripts (official transcripts will be required if you are accepted into the program) Current Resume Two recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process Forms should be completed by individuals able to speak to your ability to be successful in graduate-level work Four short essay responses Prompts included in application Student Affairs Assistantships Full-time students are required to be employed full-time or to have a graduate assistantship in order to be in the program. The program is designed this way to emphasize the theory to practice philosophy of student affairs work. Graduate assistantships are competitive and are typically obtained through the Clemson University Graduate Admissions Recruitment and Selection CUGARS process. Because the size of each cohort is determined by (a) available assistantships and (b) faculty capacity, applicants who do not receive an assistantship with Clemson University or who are not full-time employees in higher education settings will NOT have a space in the cohort. NOTE: This program is listed on the Graduate School application as Counselor Education (Student Affairs). Additional information concerning supporting materials Tips for Applying The student affairs program faculty seeks to admit a diverse cohort from the applicant pool for this competitive program, thus we review applicant files comprehensively. With that in mind, the faculty look for the following when reviewing applications: The potential for student success in graduate school. This can be exemplified by past academic success (GPA), but enhanced by strong letters of reference from former faculty on the likelihood of students’ success in graduate learning and education. Strong collaboration and communication skills. Much of the program at Clemson is based on teamwork and group projects. This is intentional in order to prepare students to be successful student affairs practitioners. Students should be prepared to provide examples in their materials of how they have worked on teams, communicated effectively, and navigated conflict. Experience with and desire to continue learning about justice and equity. Because we seek diverse student perspectives, student experiences and familiarity with issues of justice and equity enhance the learning / teaching faculty, individual students, and cohorts can do in the program. Speaking about personally transformative experiences related to these topics helps faculty understand potential student contributions and opportunities for additional learning. Student affairs knowledge. While we do not expect students to come in with full understanding of the complexities or variety of functional areas within student affairs, students should bring some familiarity with the profession and current issues related to student affairs work into their learning. Applicants will have a chance to speak to these and other topics in the application essays. We encourage you to give thought and a high level of effort to these essays as they are your chance to tell us who you are. Essay responses that are superficial, contain basic writing errors (grammar, spelling, etc.) significantly reduce the likelihood that a student will receive admission from the faculty to the program. We encourage students to have others review their writing for both content and mechanics before submitting the essay responses. Program Requirements Student Affairs Master of Education (42 semester hours) Core specialization courses (33 hours): EDSA 8030 – Student Development Services in Higher Education EDSA 8040 – Theories of Student Development in Higher Education EDSA 8060 – Student Affairs Issues EDSA 8080 – Legal and Ethical Issues in Student Affairs and Counselor Education EDSA 8090 – Higher Education Administration EDSA 8100 – Advising and Supporting EDSA 8110 – Social Justice EDSA 8190 – Contemporary College Student EDL 7650 – Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education EDL 8550 – Applied Research in Higher Education EDL 9770 – Diversity Issues in Higher Education Field Experiences (6 or 9 hours): EDSA 8340 – Student Affairs Practicum (prerequisite 8030 or 8040 and permission of instructor) EDSA 8440 – Student Affairs Internship (prerequisite 8340 and permission of instructor) Elective (in lieu of second internship as outlined below) Students must complete both a practicum and an internship experience. Students may opt for a second internship or may instead choose an elective course. The elective course must be at the graduate level and chosen in consultation with a student’s advisor. The full-time program can be completed in two years. Most full-time employees are able to complete the program in three years. All students must complete the program in six years. Courses are primarily taught late afternoons and evenings, Monday through Thursday, at 3:30 or later. Most courses are taught at Clemson University. Financial Information Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (be sure to choose the ‘online’ tab at the top of the page). Financial Aid For information regarding financial aid, please contact the office of Student Financial Aid. Graduate Assistantships Graduate Assistantship positions exist across the University in a variety of departments and centers that enhance and complement the academic experience students receive in the classroom. Graduate Assistantship positions exist across the University in a variety of departments and centers that enhance and complement the academic experience students receive in the classroom. Assistantships are available to full-time students (enrolled in at least nine credit hours per semester) and typically require a 30-hour per week work commitment. The work assignments vary by assistantship. Students who obtain these positions will receive an extensive tuition reduction as well as a monthly stipend. Candidates for the Master of Education in Student Affairs program may submit applications for Graduate Assistantships starting in mid-November. Applications are due no later than February 1. The assistantship application is separate from the February 1 Graduate School application. Once candidates are admitted to the graduate program, they will be invited to participate in the on-campus interview days during which admitted students will interview with departments seeking graduate assistants. The two-day process allows candidates to meet other candidates, faculty, staff, and current students while they learn about Clemson University and the Master of Education Student Affairs program. At the end of the interview process, candidates rank their assistantship opportunities. These rankings will assist in identifying candidates for each position. Candidates receiving an offer will have until April 15 to make a final decision. For more information or to apply for an assistantship, please visit the Graduate Assistant Recruitment and Selection (CU-GARS) website. Our Students Our students bring a variety of personal, academic, and professional experiences with them to Clemson. While many come into the program directly from their undergraduate institutions, others work and then return to school full time, while still others continue to work full time as they complete their degree. Their experiences at diverse institutions as undergraduates as well as in their varied jobs and assistantships make the learning deeper and richer in the program. Additionally, the Student Affairs program faculty encourages students to be involved outside of the classroom and therefore supports the following organizations: Student Personnel Association (SPA) SPA is open to all graduate students in the Student Affairs program as well as student affairs practitioners and Ph.D. students interested in student affairs. Chi Sigma Alpha – Edward Grandpre Chapter Chi Sigma Alpha is an honorary society for student affairs graduate students and practitioners to which one must apply and be accepted. Student Peer Mentor (SPM) Student Peer Mentors are current students who engage with and sometimes host potential students who are interested in the Student Affairs M.Ed. program at Clemson University. Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For more information regarding the Program or questions associated with applying, please contact Stephanie M. Henry, Student Services Program Coordinator, at shenry3@clemson.edu or 864-656-0416. “ “This program has equipped me with the knowledge and confidence to do the work to help make higher education not only a quality learning environment for students, but also an environment that is equitable and inclusive for people of all backgrounds and identities. Additionally, this program has opened my eyes to the multiple avenues within higher education. Perhaps the biggest impact were the opportunities to conduct research alongside our faculty. These opportunities, in addition to in class experiences, introduced me to the scholarly side of higher education and prompted my interest in pursuing my doctoral degree and eventually the professoriate.” Dion T. Harry Academic Advisor General Engineering Advising Center “ “Clemson’s higher education program was a life changing experience for me and my time in the program has both made me a competitive candidate while job searching but also helped me become a more well rounded individual. The intense focus on the practical experience via internships and practicums during my program experience helped me explore multiple facets of student affairs such as residential life and multicultural affairs but also afforded me the opportunity to dabble in academic affairs such as academic advising and support and academic integrity. This program provided me the foundational knowledge I needed to start my career but also helped scaffold my experience via hands on learning.” Wen Xi Residence Director Pace University-Pleasantville Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Copyright © Clemson University Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development | 330 Gantt Circle 864-656-3484 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson