Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>International Student and Scholar Services>Maintaining Status Maintaining Status While studying in the United States, it is important to maintain your F-1 or J-1 student and scholar status. Your status relates to the purpose, or reason for coming to the United States. Maintaining your status means: Fulfilling the purpose why the Department of State issued you a visa. Following the regulations associated with that purpose. *Contact your DSO (International Student Advisor) for more information regarding maintaining status questions. Arrival When arriving to the United States, both F-1 and J-1 students and scholars must: Enter the United States no more than 30 days before your program of study begins. See I-20 for program start date. Contact your DSO to check in at school listed on your I-20. Duration of Study While studying in the United States, both F-1 and J-1 students must: Attend and complete all your classes. If classes are too difficult, discuss options with your DSO immediately. If you believe that you will be unable to complete your program by the end date listed on your I-20, talk with your DSO about requesting a possible program extension. You must take a full course of study each term (12 credit hours of undergraduates and 9 credit hours for graduate; if you cannot study full-time, contact your DSO immediately. Do not drop a class without first speaking with and receiving written approval from your DSO. The visa sticker in your passport can be allowed to expire while you are in the U.S. because it is an entry visa. However, if you travel outside the U.S. with the expired visa, you will need to renew it before you return to the U.S. Summer and Winter annual vacation for F and J Students F and J students are eligible for summer vacation (summer vacation starts at the end of the semester in May and ends before classes start in August). F and J students can also take winter vacation after the end of the fall semester. Please note that during summer and winter vacations, students are not required to take classes. You may choose to take as many, as few, or no courses. Before traveling, be sure to contact your DSO for a travel signature on your I-20. You will not be allowed to re-enter the US without a valid travel signature on your I-20. Maintain a valid passport at all times. Your passport should be valid for at least 6 months into the future. Work and Practical Training for F-1 Students All international student may work on-campus, however you must request a letter from our office giving you clearance to work; you will also be required to apply for a Social Security number. Our office will provide further guidance. An F-1 student may only work off campus when authorized by a DSO. Some types of employment will require additional authorization from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). If you choose to work without authorization, you will be in violation of your visa status and you may not be able to re-enter the United States at a later date. F-1students are eligible for curricular practical training (CPT) at either the undergraduate or the graduate level during the program of study. CPT employment must be an integral part of an established curriculum and the position must directly relate to your major area of study. Contact your DSO for guidance. F-1 students are also eligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT) following the program of study. OPT is a form of temporary employment that directly relates to your program of study. For more information about employment and training options available for F-1students, visit the Working in the United States page and talk with your DSO. J-1 students are eligible for academic training following the program of study. This training is a form of temporary employment that directly relates to your program of study. Our office will provide more information upon request. Please refer to the CPT and OPT website for more information. Upon Program Completion F and J students and scholars must take action to maintain legal status or depart the United States after completing your program of study. F-1 students have a 60-day grace period after completion of your program and/or any authorized period of practical training (see the program end date on your Form I-20) to leave the United States. If you wish to extend your stay in the United States, talk with your DSO before the expiration of your grace period to learn more about doing one of the following: Transferring to another school. Changing your education level (e.g. bachelor’s to master’s). Apply to change status to another visa status (e.g. H-1B-temporary worker; O-extraordinary ability in science, art or business; P-athlete). J-1 students and scholars have a grace period of 30 days. For guidance about this process, contact your RO. Talk with your DSO First If you are an F-1 student studying in the United States, your DSO should be the first person you talk with if you have any questions regarding the legal requirements of your stay in the United States. Your DSO can assist in answering your questions or help you find someone who can help. F-1 students should speak with their DSO if you are planning to do any of the following: Change your major, program, or degree level. Change your education level. Transfer to a new school or take a leave of absence. Take a break from school. Travel outside the United States. Move to a new address. Request a program extension. Drop a class. Bring a dependent (spouse or child) International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information Getting To Waco Living in Waco Banking and Money Baylor Welcome Weekend Food Stores Getting a Cell Phone Getting a Driver's License Health Services Housing Transportation Weather in Waco Working on Campus Global Bears Week F-1 Degree-Seeking Students F-1 Student Guidelines SEVIS Registration for Fall and Spring Terms Suspension and Expulsion Termination of SEVIS Record Document Management Academic Program Completion Insufficient Funds Deferment Post Baccalaureate Study F-1 Visa Renewal Changing to F-1 Status Online Programs and Courses Health Services and Insurance Avoiding Fraud and Scams F1 Students and Summer Enrollment Student Requests Replace or Update I-20 Request Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Post Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) Pre-Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) STEM OPT Extension CAP-GAP Extension Leave of Absence Letter Requests On-Campus Employment Reduced Course Load Change of Level Reinstatement of Status Transfer In and Out Travel Authorization Dependents Extend or Shorten Your Program Social Security Number Severe Economic Hardship J-1 Exchange Students Application Process Costs Room and Board Course Selection Health Services and Insurance - Exchange Students Paying Taxes Process Forms and Documents Frequently Asked Questions International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining J-1 Status Two Year Residency 12 & 24 Month Bars Travel Procedures Extensions Program Transfer 212e Waiver J-2 Dependents Lecture Requests and Consultations Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors 2020-2021 CGE Ambassadors 2019-2020 CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give