Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Career and Technical Education (BS) – Workforce Training and Development Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Ed Ldrshp & Higher Education In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. College of Community Innovation and Education Department of Educational Leadership and Higher Education The Career and Technical Education, Workforce Training and Development (B.S.) track is a non-certification degree program that focuses on developing workforce and talent development trainers. The Workforce Training and Development track prepares graduates for employment in various workforce training professional careers, including corporate, workforce, and technical trainers as well as talent developers in all areas of industry. The courses in this track are offered completely online. Complete each course used for the major with a "C" (2.0) or better, and earn a minimum GPA of 2.0 in each major requirements section. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Architectural Drafting Instructor Barbering Instructor Building Trades Instructor Computer-Aided Drafting and Design Instructor Electrical Technology Instructor Electronics Technology Instructor High School Auto Repair Teacher Industrial Electrical Technology Instructor Industrial Maintenance Instructor Machine Tool Technician Instructor Masonry Instructor Massage Therapy Instructor Mathematics Education Professor Middle School Vocational Education Teacher Primary Education Professor Residential Construction Instructor Secondary Education Professor Skin Care Instructor Upholstery Instructor Welding Instructor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Career and Technical Education (BS) - Workforce Training and Development University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × College of Community Innovation and Education Department of Educational Leadership and Higher Education The Career and Technical Education, Workforce Training and Development (B.S.) track is a non-certification degree program that focuses on developing workforce and talent development trainers. The Workforce Training and Development track prepares graduates for employment in various workforce training professional careers, including corporate, workforce, and technical trainers as well as talent developers in all areas of industry. The courses in this track are offered completely online. Complete each course used for the major with a "C" (2.0) or better, and earn a minimum GPA of 2.0 in each major requirements section. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 3 Total Credits Complete the following: ECT2002 - Introduction to Career and Technical Teaching and Training (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: ECT3062 - Professional Roles of the Career & Technical Teacher (3) ECT3365 - General Methods/Testing Evaluation in Career & Technical Education (3) ECT3367 - Evaluation of Career & Technical Education Instruction (3) ECW3564 - Special Populations in Career & Technical Education (3) ECT4004 - Principles and Practices of Technical Education (3) ECT4184 - Curriculum Development Techniques for Industry Training (3) ADE4382 - Teaching Adult Learners in Technical Programs (3) ECT4815 - Safety in the Technical Education Classroom and Laboratory (3) ECT4384 - Advanced Teaching Techniques for Career Education (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: BTE4410 - Course Construction in Business Education (3) ECW3312 - Course Construction in Health Occupations Education (3) ECT3371 - Course Construction in Industrial Education (3) Technical Specialization Requirements 30 Total Credits Earn at least 30 credits from the following types of courses: Students must complete an area of specialization through occupation-specific courses approved by advisor. Restricted Electives 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: ECW3064 - Workforce Training and Development Fundamentals (3) ECW4103 - Workforce Training and Development Instructional Planning (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Upper division elective with advisor's approval Directed Field Experience 12 Total Credits Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: The Technical Specialization must be satisfied and all courses must be completed prior to registering, through your advisor, for the Directed Field Experience. This supervised internship may be completed in an educational or industrial setting, or with the UCF program faculty assisting in teaching web-based courses. The internship course has a S/U grading policy. An internship application and other requirements are necessary before admission into the internship course. Grand Total Credits: 84 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida