Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Payment Information Online Payments Please login to the Student Portal and submit payments for any outstanding housing balances under "Housing Fees." In Person Payments Please visit the Payment Options and Locations website for complete instructions. Make sure to indicate the payment is for student housing fees. Payments Via Mail Mail payments to: CSU Fullerton Student Business Services P.O. Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834-6808 Write your name and CWID number on the front of the check. Financial Aid Awards If you have an anticipated financial aid award, any remaining funds after your tuition and general fees have been paid will be applied toward your housing fees. Your anticipated aid award must be sufficient to cover your tuition and installment amount due in order to avoid the $30 late fee. Financial Aid award cannot be applied toward any late fees. triple-occupancy credit Students who live in a triple occupancy unit will receive a credit of up to $800 per semester per student (or $1,600 for the academic year) for the period occupied by three residents. Students who live in a triple occupancy unit with only 2 students will receive up to $200 per semester per student. For the Fall semester, a credit of up to $400 each will be applied to your account in October and December. For the Spring semester, a credit of up to $400 each will be applied in March and May. Any remaining credit on your account will be refunded at the end of the academic year. This option is only available for the Residence Halls. Information about Financial Aid Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Contact Information Disbursements Federal Direct Stafford Loans Federal Direct Parental Loans for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) Financial Aid Private Student Loans Student Housing Application Fee: All students applying to live on-campus will pay a nonrefundable $50 Application Fee in order to submit an application. This fee cannot be waived or deferred. Our system will have you pay through Student Business Services' secure payment portal. Please note: The Application Fee cannot be paid by Financial Aid or Scholarships. Cost The prices listed below are Room & Board costs for the 2022-2023 academic year. Students will pay in 6 different installment payments. 3 payments will be due during the Fall semester and 3 payments will be due during the Spring semster on the dates listed below. These prices below include Room & Board together as all students who live on campus are required to have a meal plan. These rates are for the 2022 - 2023 Academic year. Click here for the Current year's rates Payment Installment Schedule Aug. 12 Sept. 12 Oct. 12 Jan. 13 Feb. 13 Mar. 13 Residence Halls 5 Day Continuous Meal Plan $17,304 per year $8,652 per semester $2,884 per payment 7 Day Continuous Meal Plan $17,814 per year $8,907 per semester $2,969 per payment These buildings will only be available for first time freshmen Suites 5 Day Continuous Meal Plan $18,636 per year $9,318 per semester $3,106 per payment 7 Day Continuous Meal Plan $19,146 per year $9,573 per semester $3,191 per payment These buildings will only be available for sophomores, juniors, and transfer students Apartments 100 Block Meal Plan $16,218 per year $8,109 per semester $2,703 per payment 5 Day Continuous Meal Plan $18,174 per year $9,087 per semester $3,029 per payment 7 Day Continuous Meal Plan $18,684 per year $9,342 per semester $3,114 per payment These buildings will only be available for seniors and graduate level students Please refer to the TRIPLE-OCCUPANCY CREDIT section on this page to view more payment information about living in the TRIPLE-OCCUPANCY units in the Residence Halls Payment Calculator This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/20/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.