Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Office of the Provost Menu UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Home Office of the Provost Provost and executive vice president Mark Richards, provost and executive vice president for academic affairs Provost Mark Richards Mark Richards joined the University of Washington as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs on July 1, 2018. A geophysicist, Richards also holds a faculty appointment in the College of the Environment’s Department of Earth and Space Sciences. As provost, he is the University’s chief academic and budget officer. BIOGRAPHY INVITE THE PROVOST LEADERSHIP SEARCHES Updates Provost’s Town Hall UW Provost and Executive Vice President Mark Richards discussed excellence in teaching and learning; advancing diversity, equity and inclusion; and post-pandemic challenges and opportunities during a livestream event on February 15. Watch replay Learn more about the provost’s Faculty Diversity Initiative. COVID-19 Updates Get the latest news about novel coronavirus, precautions that are being taken and prevention measures you can take. Learn more Spring Quarter FAQ Learn what students can expect in spring quarter, campus health and safety requirements, and an overview of campus life. Learn more Back to School Task Force To protect the safety of students, faculty and other academic personnel, and staff, the Back to School Task Force is reviewing and updating University protocols in learning spaces. Learn more Teaching and Learning The Center for Teaching and Learning offers best practice and resources to instructors as they plan and teach their courses. Learn more Excellence and Impact Evans School Dean Jodi Sandfort: A public university can help redesign public services Jodi Sandfort, a member of the National Academy of Public Administration whose research has focused on social policy implementation and organizational effectiveness, is dean of the Evans School. She sat down with UW News to talk not only about her experience in the field of public policy, but also about the role the Evans School can play in furthering discussions about government in a polarized society. Pandemic experts and their research Researchers across the UW are searching for answers to the pandemic, and two groups have been in the spotlight: the Center for an Informed Public and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. Data science minor Undergraduate students in the arts, social sciences and humanities can now earn a minor in data science to expand their knowledge, skills and career options. Excellent return on investment UW Bothell was ranked No. 1, and the Seattle campus was ranked No. 3, the CNBC Make It on its list of public universities “that pay off the most.” Radical Listening Ralina Joseph, director of the UW Center for Communication, Difference and Equity and associate dean for diversity in the Graduate School, advocates for radical listening – listening without judgment — as we push for racial equity. Initiatives Faculty Diversity Initiative The initiative aim to further the UW’s goals for diversity, equity and inclusion, including $5 million in funding for faculty hiring in the next two years. Learn more WRF/Research Exchange The UW partners in a new postdoctoral program to diversify the science and engineering faculty at America’s research universities. Learn more Graduate Fellowships Fellowships are key to supporting our graduate students who form the backbone of our large research enterprise and provide a vital component of teaching at the UW. Learn more Population Health At the UW, we believe improving population health worldwide is a moral imperative, driven by our public mission of service to all. Learn more UW Finance Transformation To continue to support the UW’s mission, we are modernizing our financial systems, policies and processes. Learn more Enrollment Management We are working to improve the student experience at the UW — including leadership activities, pathways to majors, research experience and mentoring. Learn more Office of the Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Office of Planning & Budgeting Provost’s Advisory Committee for Students Executive Office Finance & Administration Leadership searches Strategic Planning & Assessment Accreditation Suggestion box Our planning prioritizes the health, safety and academic excellence of our community. If you have ideas to share, please do so in the box below. Name Email Suggestions Please leave this field empty. Δ Invite the provost Want the provost to attend your event? Submit a request. Contact us Rachel Northquist Executive Assistant to the Provost 206-221-3962rachelno@uw.edu Nicole Bell Provost’s Scheduler 206-616-9851nicolb@uw.edu Kim Dinh Senior Director, Executive Office Finance & Administration 206-543-6616kimdinh@uw.edu Executive Office Shared Services (EOSS) University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA