Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater-Playwriting MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater-Playwriting MFA Apply Request More Info Theater-Playwriting MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Playwriting Develop and refine your voice as a writer—and gain the skills you need to sustain a life in the arts—with the Master of Fine Arts in Playwriting at Temple's School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. With the vibrant Philadelphia theater community as a backdrop, students in the Playwriting MFA program undergo rigorous training in the craft of storytelling for the stage. Graduates of this immersive program primarily go on to careers in theater. The MFA in Playwriting is a 60-credit program that can be completed over the course of three years. With small class sizes and individualized instruction, candidates for the MFA in Playwriting are trained to deepen both the quality of their self-expression and the social purpose of their work. To that end, students are encouraged to engage with outside research areas, such as African American Studies, Anthropology, Art History, Film, Music and Women's Studies. In addition, the program emphasizes collaboration with other theater professionals across different disciplines. The final product of the program is the thesis—a completed full-length play. The curriculum emphasizes the diversity of playwriting forms, with course selections that allow Playwriting MFA students to explore creating work in genres like adaptation, docudrama and solo performance. Students in the program are mentored by full-time faculty, many of whom have led some of the most successful productions in American theater. Students can also take advantage of Temple's affiliations with the numerous professional theaters in the region, particularly those with new play programs. Classes & Curriculum The curriculum for the Theater-Playwriting MFA is designed to allow writers to explore areas of interest both within the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts, and outside of it, to explore a particular project or idea. Required courses you will take during your program include Adaptation, Docudrama, Playwriting, Solo Performance and Writing for Media. Learn more about Theater-Playwriting MFA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Musical Theater Studies MA Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Design MFA Theater-Directing MFA Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Program Contact Fred M. Duer is the chair of the Theater Department and the program contact for the Theater-Playwriting MFA program. Phone: 215-204-2804 Email: fred.duer@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. Concentrations You can focus on Theater-Playwriting or you can take one of the following concentrations. Playwriting CA-THPW-MFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater-Playwriting MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info