Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > April 25, 2022: Update on Booster Mandate COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff April 25, 2022: Oral Medications for COVID-19 Dear Columbia faculty and staff: We are pleased to let you know that ColumbiaDoctors will be facilitating access to oral treatment for individuals who test positive for COVID-19 and who meet certain medical criteria. Paxlovid is one of the oral medications that has been shown to reduce the likelihood of hospitalization. Since it does need to be taken within five days of symptom onset, we are providing quick access to physicians who can prescribe this medication. Paxlovid is available to anyone who meets the criteria for emergency use as authorized by the FDA. This includes the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in adults and children (12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kilograms, or about 88 pounds) who have tested positive and are at high risk for progressing to severe COVID-19, which includes anyone age 65 or older. If you meet these criteria and have tested positive for COVID, please contact your existing health care provider right away. Alternatively, you may make a virtual or in-person appointment with Columbia providers at Columbia Primary Care, the Nurse Practitioner Group, as well as with our virtual urgent care team. Be sure to state that the appointment is for COVID treatment with a positive test. Columbia affiliates who need further assistance in obtaining appointments for Paxlovid treatment have access to a dedicated line, (212) 305-3105, on Mondays through Fridays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Finally, the City of New York has treatment resources noted here. Sincerely, George A. "Jack" Cioffi, MD President, ColumbiaDoctors Shunichi "Nick" Homma, MD Chief Medical Officer, ColumbiaDoctors Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top