HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Well-being CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Mental Health Home Attention Body Image COVID-19 Mental Health Empathy Loneliness Resilience Sadness Self-compassion Sleep Stress Suicide Prevention Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) GET HELP/RESOURCES Stress and anxiety related to the novel coronavirus is normal. The fear of the unknown can at times feel overwhelming. During this trying time, taking care of your mental health is essential. See below for resources, information, tips and strategies on how to best manage stress and anxiety in this turbulent time. Campus/Local Resources Counseling and Psychological Services: Students in need of services, call 864-656-2451 during business hours (8 a.m.-4:30 p.m.) to access care. A brief phone screen will be conducted to determine the best way to serve your needs. If you are currently receiving services, reply promptly to the secure message from your counselor. Our overnight and over-the-weekend emergency phone-support service remains available by calling the Clemson University Police Department at 864-656-2222 and asking to speak with the CAPS counselor on call. At this time, CAPS providers are bound by licensing laws to provide services, including remote services, in the state in which they are licensed. Therefore, students located outside South Carolina will be assisted with accessing care in their communities. Therapy Assistance Online (available to students, faculty and staff): Any person with a Clemson.edu email address has access to CAPS' online program called Therapy Assistance Online (TAO). There are nine online treatments with multiple modules from which you can select to best address your concerns. If you have questions about utilizing this service, please contact CAPS at 864-656-2451. TAO Mindfulness Exercises (available to everyone): In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, many people are struggling with worry and anxiety. To help everyone cope, TAO has made mindfulness exercises available to those in need through this difficult time. Be Well: There are many opportunities and events across campus that support positive mental health for our students. See our Be Well calendar here. Greenville CRISISline – 864-271-8888: CRISISline is a 24-hour, 7-day a week confidential hotline offering a nonjudgmental sounding board for people to talk about life's struggles. Trained phone workers are available to offer a listening ear and to provide community resources and crisis intervention. Crisis Textline – Text “tigers” to 741-741: The Crisis Textline is open to anyone in need of support. You will receive access to a trained, anonymous, free crisis counselor. Suicide Prevention Lifeline – 1-800-273-TALK (8255): No matter what problems you are dealing with, COVID-19 related or otherwise, we want to help you find a reason to keep living. By calling 1-800-273-TALK (8255), you’ll be connected to a skilled, trained counselor at a crisis center in your area anytime, 24-hours, 7-days a week. Tips to Manage COVID-19 Stress Naming what you’re experiencing is one of the first steps to mental health and well-being. Take a look at this article to better understand what many of us are likely feeling during this turbulent time: Harvard Business Review – That Discomfort You’re Feeling Is Grief When dealing with unexpected and stressful events, it is not uncommon to have signs of distress that seem outside of how we normally cope. First start with recognizing what you are experiencing. Signs of Distress: Excessive fear and worry Prolonged sadness or irritability Changes in sleeping and/or eating habits Significant loneliness Struggles to concentrate Risky or impulsive behavior Confused thinking Thoughts of harming yourself or someone else Strong mood swings Hopelessness Using substances to deal with feelings It's important to note that we are not helpless in light of current news events. We can always choose our response. If you are struggling, here are some things you can do to take care of your mental health in the face of uncertainty. Tips adapted from the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention: Separate what is in your control from what is not. There are things you can do, and it’s helpful to focus on those. Wash your hands. Remind others to wash theirs. Take your vitamins. Limit your consumption of news (Do you really need to know what is happening on a cruise ship you aren’t on?). Do what helps you feel a sense of safety. This will be different for everyone, and it's important not to compare yourself to others. Social distancing is strongly recommended, but make sure you are staying connected with others even if it just by phone or FaceTime. Get outside in nature – even if you are avoiding crowds. Take a walk. Get out in the sunshine. It is important to get some fresh air. Exercise also helps both your physical and mental health. Challenge yourself to stay in the present. Perhaps your worry is compounding—you are not only thinking about what is currently happening, but also projecting into the future. When you find yourself worrying about something that hasn’t happened, gently bring yourself back to the present moment. Notice the sights, sounds, tastes and other sensory experiences in your immediate moment and name them. Engaging in mindfulness activities is one way to help stay grounded when things feel beyond your control. For more information about mindfulness, visit our Koru Mindfulness program and consider enrolling in our online version. Stay connected and reach out if you need more support. Talk to trusted friends about what you are feeling. If you are feeling particularly anxious or if you are struggling with your mental health, it’s ok to reach out to a mental health professional for support. You don’t have to be alone with your worry, and it can be comforting to share what you are experiencing with those trained to help. Mindfulness and Exercise Can Help Try practicing mindfulness. There are great apps to try on your own. If you want a more personal experience, Healthy Campus offers Koru Mindfulness training online for employees and students. Yoga is also a great combination of meditation and movement. See the links below for more information. Mindfulness Headspace: mindful meditation Calm: relaxation, sleep and meditation Koru Mindfulness Course Exercise Yoga with Adrienne YouTube Channel Peloton: free app for 90 days; yoga, strength training, etc. Nike Training Club Aesthetic Relief Nightly Met Opera Streams Online museums and art exhibits General Health and Well-being: Campus Well by Student Health 101 What you need to know about coronavirus (COVID-19) Help stop the spread of coronavirus: 5 steps to proper handwashing Stuck at home? 7 dos and don’ts to make the best of social distancing Online Classes How to get the most out of your online class Ask the professor: “How do I manage my time in an online class?” Mental Health Our top 4 mental health apps to help you deal with everyday stress and anxiety This quick body scan meditation will melt away your stress FitnessU 5 indoor workouts to keep you fit all year round UCookbook 5 healthy batch cooking recipes to fuel your week Additional Online Resources Clemson University COVID-19 Updates and Resources Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): COVID-19 Situation Summary Managing Stress and Anxiety Guidance for Reducing COVID-19 Stigma John’s Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center: What is Social Distancing? Seven crucial research findings that can help people deal with COVID-19 Active Minds: Mental Health Amid the Coronavirus Pandemic Mental Health America: Mental Health and COVID-19 – Information and Resources SAMHSA: Taking Care of Mental Health While Social Distancing The Jed Foundation: Tips on Managing Stress and Anxiety For Faculty and Staff: PEBA Wellness Programs Health Coaching: helps those who have behavioral or chronic medical conditions Rally: motivational and other support to make simple changes to daily routine, set goals and stay on target to get moving, eat better and feel happier How leaders can maximize trust and minimize stress during the COVID-19 pandemic Guides and resources to support your work with students Psychologists’ advice for newly remote workers More Mental Health and Well-being Tips During COIVD-19 from CAPS CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster