Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityMarquette Tools Marquette Tools Marquette A to Z Campus Contacts Contact Us Campus Map Marquette.edu // Tools // Legal Disclaimer All content of this Internet site (www.marquette.edu) is owned or controlled by Marquette University or its employees and is protected by worldwide copyright laws. You may download content only for your personal use for non-commercial purposes, but no further reproduction or modification of the content is permitted. Appropriate attribution is required for any permitted use. The products, technology or processes described in this site may be the subject of intellectual property rights reserved by Marquette University or other third parties. No license is granted with respect to those intellectual property rights, and all rights are reserved. THIS PUBLICATION AND SITE IS PROVIDED "AS IS," WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. This Internet site provides links or reference to other sites, but Marquette University has no responsibility for the content of such other sites and shall not be liable for any damages or injury arising from that content. Any links to other sites are provided merely as a convenience to the users of this Internet site. The trademarks, service marks and trade names shown in this Internet site include but are not limited to the Athletic Monogram and "Be The Difference" and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and are protected in the United States and internationally. No use of these may be made without the prior, written authorization of Marquette University or the consortium partner concerned, except to identify the products or services of the company. Any communications you send to this Internet site or otherwise to Marquette University by electronic mail, with the exception of personally identifiable information, are on a non-confidential basis, and Marquette University is under no obligation to refrain from reproducing, publishing or otherwise using them in any way for any purpose. Marquette University shall be free to use the content of any such communications, including any ideas, inventions, concepts, techniques or know-how disclosed therein, for any purpose, including the developing, manufacturing and/or marketing of goods or services. Use of any personally identifiable information will be governed by the Privacy Policy. Marquette University may make changes to the information in this Internet site, or to the services described therein, at any time without notice. Marquette University makes no commitment to update this information. General Info Phone (800) 222-6544 or (414) 288-7250 for local calls General address Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Avenue Milwaukee, WI 53233 Mailing address Marquette University P.O. Box 1881 Milwaukee, WI 53201-1881 Additional ways to mail Marquette PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact webrequests@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©