Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? External Funding Opportunities COVID-19 External Funding Opportunities Limited Submissions These are opportunities that require institutional nomination or endorsement and/or that are eligible to a limited number of applicants from each institution. Applications or nominations submitted without proper institutional endorsement, or submission of a number over the limit, may result in automatic rejection of all Brown proposals. For the majority of these programs, the Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) will announce a deadline for an internal review of applications/nominations. For more information, please contact Margaret Manning at [email protected] or (401) 863-5145. Strategic Funding Opportunities The funding opportunities featured on this page have been curated to reflect Brown’s research strengths as they align with national funding priorities. The page features a continually updated database of opportunities that is searchable by keyword, eligibility, thematic area, and more. Please note that this is a selected collection of funding opportunities--it does not represent everything that is available. For more information, please contact Kate Duggan at [email protected] or (401) 863-5146. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Funding Opportunities The Office of Research Development and the Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations have assembled funding opportunities related to diversity, equity and inclusion to aid Brown researchers in finding private and federal funding to help them achieve their research goals. The information about each opportunity is not exhaustive, but intends to provide viewers with a sense of whether it is viable for their needs. Before pursuing an opportunity, it is crucial to read all information from the posted link to ensure a full understanding of all requirements and the application process. Please see the 'Read Me' tab of the spreadsheet for more details. THE NEXT LEVEL: Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students and Postdocs THE NEXT LEVEL: Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students and Postdocs is a collection of potential funding opportunities designed to aid graduate students and postdocs in the pursuit of their academic, research, and career goals. Opportunities include grants, awards, fellowships, and internships. The information about each opportunity is not exhaustive, but intends to provide viewers with a sense of whether it is viable for their needs. Before pursuing an opportunity, it is crucial to read all information from the posted link to ensure a full understanding of all requirements and the application process. Please see the 'Read Me' tab of the spreadsheet for more details. SPIN Funding Database This database provides a broad range of funding opportunities from federal, governmental, international, private and corporate funders. The tool allows you to establish a profile and generate automatic matches based on your individual criteria. Access is through the InfoEd portal for grant management and SPIN is located on the tool bar on the left after you have gone through your shibboleth login. Access the Library Guide on Grant Finding to view the many other library services for researchers engaged in seeking internal and external grants. Please see quick guide to accessing SPIN available here. (Note: Looking for Pivot? As of 8/31/17, SPIN has replaced Pivot as the searchable funding database for the Brown community. Brown no longer supports access to Pivot.) Research Development and Grant Writing News This monthly electronic newsletter offers strategies on how to compete successfully for research funding from federal agencies and foundations. Each issue highlights agency research news and trends, web resources, and new funding opportunities. An institutional subscription allows unlimited distribution to the Brown community, but please note that this material is copyrighted and may not be reposted on an open website. Foundation Funding Opportunities Brown’s Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations can help you find foundation funding opportunities. Funding Agencies & Helpful Links Grants.Gov A searchable database of all discretionary grants offered by the 26 federal grant-making agencies. You can create a custom search with regular email updates. U.S. Department of Education U.S. Department of Energy Defense Advanced Projects Research Agency Office of Naval Research Army Research Air Force Office of Scientific Research CDMRP IARPA National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) National Institutes of Health Listserv At the end of each week, NIH transmits an e-mail to NIH Guide LISTSERV subscribers with the Current Weekly Table of Contents (TOC), including links to announcements published during the week. NIH Family-Friendly Initiatives (includes Supporting Re-entry through Supplements information) National Science Foundation (NSF) NSF's Career-Life Balance Initiative (includes Career-Life Balance (CLB)-Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) Supplemental Funding Requests information) National Endowment for the Humanities National Endowment for the Arts Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding External Funding Opportunities COVID-19 External Funding Opportunities Limited Submissions Process and Policies Limited Submission Funding Opportunities Research and Development Grant Writing News Strategic Funding Opportunity Listings Internal Funding Opportunities Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat