Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Affairs Menu Main Nav Student Affairs Contact Back Back Close About Overview Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Involuntary Leave of Absence Policy Communication Updates Related Links Mission and Ministry Student Services Departments & Programs Overview BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Center for Student Wellness Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women's Center Related Links Assessment Program Eagle Path Cross Currents Seminars Divisional Committees Mission and Ministry Student Services How Can We Help You? Events Overview Weeks of Welcome 2021 Community Webinar FAQs Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close About Home About About Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Communication Updates Student Affairs is home to 15 affiliated departments that provide a rich array of co-curricular programs and services that promote student learning, health and wellness, leadership development, and community engagement. The division's 180–member staff works with faculty, administrators, and alumni to support the personal, professional, social, and spiritual growth of the University's undergraduate and graduate students. Our Vision Statement The Division of Student Affairs will be a full partner in the process of learning and formation at Boston College. By providing a diversity of experiential learning opportunities, building communities of respect and support, encouraging and supporting lives of integrity, offering services that remove barriers to learning, promoting students' readiness to learn, and collaborating with the Divisions of Academic Affairs and Mission and Ministry, Student Affairs will help students engage fully with the University's educational opportunities and progress in their journey of personal formation. Student Affairs strives for the magis, or the more, in every aspect of its organization, operations, and program and service design and delivery; the division is committed to evidence-based practice and the use of assessment data to strengthen programs and services. Through reflective, strategic planning, careful allocation of resources, and comprehensive staff formation, the division works to provide learning experiences, programs, and services that produce sound student outcomes. In all of its work, Student Affairs seeks to know and understand students, address and support their needs, while also encouraging them to be self-advocates; it intends to work with students to create a strong and healthy learning environment, through a culture of inclusion and participation. One special focus of the division's work is recognizing and addressing the needs of underrepresented students. Student Affairs intends to create and sustain a caring community within the division, which recognizes the contributions and achievements of all staff and leadership, and encourages an appropriate and sustainable practice of self-care for all members of the division. View the Division of Student Affairs Strategic Plan Infographic View the Health and Wellness Strategic Plan Our Guiding Principles Establishing a culture of respect for others. Promoting an inclusive community. Structuring experiences based on a formative model of education that integrate students’ intellectual, spiritual, and social realms. Providing comprehensive support services to improve students’ readiness to learn. Encouraging broad student engagement by intentionally involving all students in programs, services, and activities within the division. Advancing the Jesuit, Catholic mission of the University. Striving for personal and departmental excellence. Acting with the utmost integrity in working with self and others. Back To Top Back To Top Division of Student Affairs Maloney Hall, 4th Floor 617-552-8600 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College