Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC, CPS partner for first Marian Spencer Scholarship awards Donated funds will give 10 students entering in fall 2022 full tuition to UC, other opportunities By Katie Pence Email KatieEmail Katie 513-558-4561 November 23, 2021 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati continues its dedicated partnership with Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) and commitment to underrepresented students with the launch of the Marian Spencer Scholars Program for high-achieving CPS students. An investment of $6 million — made possible by a gift from UC alumnus and venture capitalist Jim Goetz and university matching funds — will allow 10 CPS students a year to receive full tuition, room and board scholarships and other opportunities. The first 10 Spencer Scholars will enroll in fall 2022, and by 2023, the program will include at least one student from each of the 18 high schools within CPS. “The Spencer Scholarship builds a runway for underrepresented students at UC who will have an incredible opportunity to launch their academic and professional careers from our campus,” said UC President Neville Pinto at the Sept. 10 ceremonies announcing major investments and initiatives tied to inclusion efforts. “The Marian Spencer Scholarship represents our collective commitment to ensuring that students excel by inspiring, challenging and supporting them to reach their greatest academic, social and personal potential,” said CPS’ Interim Superintendent Tianay Amat. “We are grateful to the University of Cincinnati for its continued partnership and aiding our students who are eager to pursue a postsecondary education.” Marian Spencer with President Neville Pinto in Tangeman University Center's Great Hall. Photo credit/Joe Fuqua. The scholarship will cover students’ undergraduate financial need and include mentoring and career coaching, an international service abroad trip to Tanzania in partnership with UC-based nonprofit Village Life Outreach Project, participation in a service project to benefit CPS and more. The students will form a living-learning community, housed together in Marian Spencer Hall. “This scholarship will be transformational, not just for the individual students but for the entire community,” said Jack Miner, vice provost of enrollment management at UC. “Students will have unparalleled experiences and connections to the business community and will bring those experiences back to their community and to their high school.” Spencer Scholars will be perfect examples of Marian Spencer’s leadership and legacy. A civil rights icon, UC alumna Spencer was instrumental in desegregating Cincinnati’s Coney Island as well as Cincinnati Public Schools. She went on to become the first African American woman elected to Cincinnati City Council in 1983. Marian Spencer's legacy is one of service toward social change. This scholarship will identify and strengthen those future leaders. Jack Miner Vice Provost of Enrollment Management at UC On Dec. 1, 1983, Marian Spencer was sworn in as vice-mayor. Photo courtesy of The Cincinnati Enquirer/Ed Reinke. In 2018, a new high-rise residence hall on Campus Green was christened Marian Spencer Hall to honor her activism and her many contributions to the university. Photo courtesy of Melissa Neeley-Nicolini/University of Cincinnati. As a Black student in the late 1930s and early 1940s, Spencer wasn't permitted to live in a dorm on UC’s campus. That makes an honor she later received all the more fitting: In 2018, a new high-rise residence hall on Campus Green was christened Marian Spencer Hall to honor her activism and her many contributions to the university. A former board of trustees member at UC, she later donated 80 years of Cincinnati civil rights history to the university in forms as diverse as music and official memoranda to comprise the “Marian and Donald Spencer Collection.” “Marian Spencer's legacy is one of service toward social change,” said Miner. “This scholarship will identify and strengthen those future leaders.” “As a public university, we must prepare a way for an exciting and equitable future for all,” President Pinto adds. “That means opening our doors wide and allowing more people to be educated in the tradition of excellence for which UC is known. Increasing our diversity strengthens the quality of the experience on our campus for all. “We must be a place where every member of our community can work, learn, grow and thrive in a safe and supportive environment.” Featured photo of Marian Spencer by Joe Fuqua. Become a Bearcat Whether you’re a first-generation student or from a family of Bearcats, UC is proud to support you at every step along your journey. We want to make sure you succeed — and feel right at home. Apply today. Tags College bound Equity and Inclusion President's Office Student Affairs Student Experience Diversity Admissions Next Lives Here Academic Excellence Urban Impact Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top