Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduates Forward Arrow Undergraduates Majors Tour Transfer Students SPECTRA Program Resources & FAQ Back Arrow Back Graduates Forward Arrow Graduates Program Contacts STEM All In CECAST Graduate Podcast Back Arrow Back Degree Pathways Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Advising Forward Arrow Advising Graduate Coordinators Undergraduate Advising Change of Major Back Arrow Back Academic Support Forward Arrow Academic Support Tutoring Grad Peer Mentors Back Arrow Back Community Engagement Forward Arrow Engagement Global Engagement Leadership Programs Back Arrow Back Recognition Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Facilities Endowed Chairs Centers & Institutes Grant Management Proposal Development Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Administration Business Office Departments Directory PROMO Back Arrow Back Connect Forward Arrow Connect Alumni Awards IDEAS Magazine Outreach Ways to Give Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Research Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduates show submenu for Undergraduates Majors Tour Transfer Students SPECTRA Program Resources & FAQ Graduates show submenu for Graduates Program Contacts STEM All In CECAST Graduate Podcast Degree Pathways Students show submenu for Students Advising show submenu for Advising Graduate Coordinators Undergraduate Advising Change of Major Academic Support show submenu for Academic Support Tutoring Grad Peer Mentors Community show submenu for Community Clubs & Orgs Engagement show submenu for Engagement Global Engagement Leadership Programs Recognition Research show submenu for Research Facilities Endowed Chairs Centers & Institutes Grant Management Proposal Development About show submenu for About Administration Business Office Departments Directory PROMO Connect show submenu for Connect Alumni Awards IDEAS Magazine Outreach Ways to Give Clemson Home College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Research Current: Facilities Research Research Facilities and Innovation Campuses In state-of-the-art facilities across the state, Clemson researchers are utilizing advanced technology to create a safer, healthier and more sustainable future. Play Video Video Transcript 0:00-0:02 A man in safety glasses uses a machine with a laser at the COMSET facility. 0:03-0:05 Within the Electron Microscopy Facility, a researcher works on three computer screens next to the Hitachi NB5000 machine. The view pans to him adjusting equipment inside the machine. 0:06-0:07 A male in a white lab coat is using a pipette. Several unused pipettes are in the foreground. 0:08-0:09 An aerial view of the Clemson University ICAR Center facility has a backdrop of the I-85 interstate. The top of the Foothills Mountains is seen in the distance. 0:09-0:10 Two men work on equipment, plugging in wires. 0:11-0:12 A woman and man look inside a server at the Palmetto Cluster facility. Palmetto Cluster is a “condominium” style cluster developed to serve the university’s wide-ranging research needs. 0:13-0:15 A man in safety glasses checks wires. 0:16-0:17 Purple letters spelling "Clemson" and orange letters spelling "University" are seen on the outside of the Dominion Energy Innovation Center, located in Charleston, SC. 0:18-0:19 A close-up of the testbed at the wind-turbine drivetrain testing facility is shown within the Dominion Energy Innovation Center. Researchers can address technical challenges to widen the use of renewable energy, such as wind and solar power. 0:20-0:22 An aerial view over the main campus fades out as a white Tiger Paw comes into focus in the center of the screen. The video concludes. Research Facilities COMSET Center for Optical Materials Science and Engineering Technologies was formed in 2000. COMSET provides an organized framework with a significant centralized infrastructure for faculty with common interests to collaborate in developing advanced materials, devices, and systems that generate, transmit, manipulate and utilize light. The science and engineering of light-based technologies is approaching a $7.5 trillion dollar global market. With materials as the technology enabler within all devices and components, Clemson University and South Carolina, through COMSET, are uniquely positioned to support the research, workforce development, and outreach needs of the industry. COMSET Electron Microscopy Electron Microscopy Facility has several state-of-art high-resolution transmission electron microscopes, scanning electron microscopes, and a combined Focused Ion Beam microscope. Our goal is to provide the best microscopy and analytical services to our faculty and industrial collaborators. The multi-use facility, located 3.5 miles north of I-85 on SC 187 in Anderson, attracts clients from aerospace, automotive, pharmaceutical, textile, electronics, environmental and medical industries. To use the instrumentation, email a facility staff member who will coordinate one-on-one training and then facilitate your registration on an online scheduling platform. EM Lab Godley-Snell Research Center The Godley-Snell Research Center (GSRC), located on the Clemson University main campus, is a centralized animal research facility with 22,000 sq. ft. dedicated to maintaining a variety of laboratory animal species used in research and teaching programs at Clemson University, and to provide resources and support services for those programs. Animal welfare is managed by the Office of Animal Services. Environmental parameters are monitored continuously using a computer-controlled monitoring system with dial-out alarms. The surgical facility has two large operating rooms, a nursing station, sterile prep, recovery room, procedure, and surgical prep room, and radiology. GSRC IBIOE The Institute for Biological Interfaces of Engineering (IBIOE) is a South Carolina-based interdisciplinary research and educational unit, spanning each of the Clemson University colleges. Our mission is to develop state-of-the-art systems for solving practical and clinically relevant problems through strategic interdisciplinary research partnerships and unique educational initiatives. Lab capabilities include fabrication, mechanical testing, chemical detection, gene/protein detection, cell culture test equipment, and cell culture equipment. Focus areas are advanced biomaterials, tissue fabrication and instrumentation, and tissue simulation. IBIOE National Brick Research Center The National Brick Research Center is an industrially funded organization providing research, education, and service to producers and users of clay bricks and other ceramic materials (tile, mortar, and ceramics). Entities join the Center by paying annual dues according to a schedule set by the Center’s Industrial Board of Directors. The Center seeks to augment the university students' educational process and be an important contributor to the University’s mission in research and public service. Educational Services: including Short courses, Webinars, Brickyard Magazine, and Annual Brick Forums are available. NBRC Palmetto Cluster Palmetto Cluster is a “condominium” style cluster developed to serve the university’s wide-ranging research needs. Designed and deployed by Clemson Computing and Information Technology's Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (ACI) group in collaboration with faculty researchers across the university, Palmetto provides a shared platform that optimizes resources for the benefit of all users. Named for South Carolina’s state tree, the Palmetto Cluster was designed to suit many different research applications, with a large number of powerful multi-core nodes, each with a significant amount of memory. Palmetto Cluster Innovation Campuses Advanced Materials Research Lab The Clemson University Advanced Materials Center (AMRL), an innovative campus and technology park located in Anderson, South Carolina. It is a state-of-the-art facility that houses internationally recognized research programs in optoelectronics, chemistry, and materials science. It also houses one of the nation's most outstanding electron microscopy facilities and a professional staff that provides services to private industry and academic clients. The research done here will have a positive global impact and will help bring world-renowned companies to the Upstate. The National Science Foundation, the Department of Defense, and NASA have all recognized the laboratory’s work and have offered funding to fuel future innovation. AMRL Biomedical Engineering Innovation Center Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Center (CUBEInc) is a state-of-the-art facility primarily dedicated to biomedical research and accelerated innovation. CUBEInC consists of 30,000 sq. ft. of research and education facilities, translational/incubator space, bioimaging research facilities, state-of-the-art surgical-skills facilities, as well as meeting and networking accommodations shared by Clemson scientists and GHS clinicians. CUBEInC occupies the 4th floor of Building C of the Patewood Medical Campus of the Greenville Health System (GHS). It is strategically located above two floors dedicated to clinical orthopedics and rehabilitation (sports and total-joint replacements) and one floor dedicated to vascular surgery and clinical imaging. CUBEInc Clemson University Restoration Institute Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) was established in 2004, in North Charleston, as a means for driving economic growth, innovation, and workforce development in South Carolina's Lowcountry. Facilities in North Charleston provide researchers, scientists, students, and faculty with ample opportunity to impact the growing tech economy while also appreciating the rich historical heritage in the surrounding area. At any given time, teams can be found working on a diverse range of projects including historic preservation, restoration ecology, advanced materials research, digital production arts and filmmaking, marine conservation, and electric grid testing. CURI Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CUICAR) is an advanced-technology research campus where education, research, and economic development collaborate to create a global venue for the automotive industry. CU-ICAR’s research portfolio is driven by industry needs. It continuously analyzes the market and surveys industry partners, industry leaders, and automotive companies to determine their technology and R&D focus. Beyond housing 17 resident partners, multiple research laboratories, and Clemson University’s automotive engineering program, the CU-ICAR campus also lends itself to accommodating regional and global conferences and events. CUICAR ClemsonForward ClemsonForward is a strategic plan focused on the future and challenges facing South Carolina, the nation, and the world in the 21st century. Strategic Plan CU Arrow Increase awarded doctoral degrees Support state economic development Provide high-impact research opportunities Double underrepresented instructional faculty Increase annual research proposal submissions College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences | Riggs Hall 864-656-3000 | Directory intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson