Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Clinics Criminal Clinic Criminal Clinic The Criminal Clinic was created in 1976 to provide SMU Dedman School of Law students the opportunity to represent indigent defendants facing criminal prosecution in Dallas County Criminal Courts. Students enrolled in the Criminal Clinic provide representation to indigent individuals facing misdemeanor and felony criminal consequences in Dallas County, including such charges as theft, DWI, criminal trespass, unlawful carry, assault, and even revocation of felony probation. The Clinic's areas of representation are not confined to these specific examples; the clinic has for almost half a century adapted to the needs of the current and contemporary Dallas community. Exhaustive involvement with clients and intensive case management affords Student State Bar Associate Members unique insight into the many complex facets of the criminal justice system. Further, the clinic allows them to hone a wide range of lawyering skills, including analytical and practical skills, that are then put to work in service to the Dallas community and Dallas County's indigent defendants. Clinic services include but are not limited to, interviewing and counseling clients, negotiating with the State, fact development and analysis, strategic case planning, conflict resolution and decision making, motion and trial practice, drafting motions and pre-trial representation, voire dire presentation, organization and management of legal work, and (of course) supervised representation in Dallas County criminal courtrooms. Student State Bar Associate Members take the lead in all aspects of their casework and are working hard year-round in service to the community. Contact Information Faculty and Staff Christopher Jenks Director of the Criminal Clinic and Associate Professor of Law Mike McCollum Adjunct Clinical Professor of Law, Criminal Clinic Debora Garcia Sanchez Adjunct Clinical Professor of Law, Criminal Clinic Gloria Zapata Administrative Assistant Criminal, Innocence, Patent, Small Business, Tax, and Trademark Clinics Mailing Address SMU Dedman School of Law P.O. Box 750116 Dallas, TX 75275-0116 Physical Address SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Suite 30 Dallas, TX 75205 Criminal Clinic 2021-2022 Criminal Law Clinic Update 2020-2021 SMU Dedman School of Law Criminal Clinic Update 2019-2020 SMU Dedman School of Law Criminal Clinic Update 2018-2019 SMU Dedman School of Law Criminal Clinic Update 2017-2018 Criminal Clinic Update 2016-2017 SMU Dedman School of Law Criminal Clinic Update Resources for the Public For Students Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram