Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH University Offices Enrollment Services Office of Student Business Services Enrollment Services Office of Admissions Office of the University Registrar Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Student Business Services Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs Office of Student Business Services Summer 2022 Hours We are here for YOU – in several ways! Our representatives are available by email, phone, or through virtual (video) appointment, or by seeing us in person at the Welcome Center. Please visit our various departmental websites for more information! View Welcome Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. View Call Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. View Scheduled Virtual Appointments Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Office of Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of the University Registrar The Office of Student Business Services is committed to the success of our students by providing excellent customer service on matters related to billing and payment of tuition and fees due to the University of Houston. University of Houston Payment Terms Agreement Mailing Address Only for Payments Cashier's Office Welcome Center 4434 University Drive, Room 114 Houston, TX 77204-6033 *Note: Any correspondence/payments should include your name (if your name has changed, include former name as well) and your student id number. Contact Information Customer Services Phone: (713) 743-1010, option 6 Email: bursar@uh.edu Areas of Responsibility Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Graduate Tuition and Fees Billing Due Dates Payment Plans Refunds Tax Information Tuition and Fee Exemptions and Waivers Tuition Set-Aside Related Listings Pay Now Academic Calendar University of Houston: SBS Forms University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies