Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Shared Governance Shared governance gives representation to academic staff, university staff, faculty and students, who all take part in making significant decisions concerning the operation of the university. Shared governance is a unique and important aspect of life at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. How to participate There are numerous opportunities to participate, either by serving on one of the shared governance bodies, committees or by offering input to representatives. People participate for a variety of reasons — in short and longer-term opportunities ranging from search committees to board service. Some who participate serve for many years, while others opt to serve for shorter periods of time. Participating in shared governance is an opportunity for people across campus to come together to share ideas, make a difference and gain professional experience. Each governance group has its own procedures for appointing members to the various opportunities. Please consult the links below for more information. Leadership Support of Participation in Shared Governance (PDF) Academic staff University staff Faculty Students Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu