Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Report An Incident Crime Alerts Blue Light Services About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log Cornell Police Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log Campus Safety & Security Campus Safety & Security Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program HomeCampus Safety & SecurityRAVE Guardian app RAVE Guardian app Rave Guardian App was launched in January 2018 as part of the University’s emergency mass notification services. This app, free to the campus community, can enhance user’s personal safety both on and off campus by turning any smartphone into a personal safety device. In addition, they will also receive Emergency Alerts on the app. With Guardian, users can create a profile of information about themselves, and invite family and friends to their safety network. When needed, a user can request one or more of their Guardians to “virtually” walk with them on or off campus. It’s like having an emergency blue light system and a trusted friend with you at all times. The app allows dispatch to communicate directly through text and voice if panic button is depressed and allows exact location Information on screen. A user can add any additional information and a picture of themselves if desired. The Rave Guardian App can be downloaded in the Apple or Google Play stores by searching for “Rave Guardian”. You can also learn more at www.raveguardian.com. How does the Rave Guardian App work? Use your Cornell email and your cell phone number to sign in: Users can add their name, campus address, medical notes and other pertinent information for campus safety in case of emergency. Easy Emergency Communication: In an emergency, a one button call to campus safety officials will display the users Guardian profile and current location. Set a Safety Timer: In the event a student feels unsafe, they can set a timer with their current location, indicating where they are going and when they should arrive. In the event they do not make it there and de-active the timer, contacts or campus safety will be immediately alerted. Chat with the Cornell Police: See something, say something. The app allows users to anonymously chat about suspicious activity with campus police, including photos and location Access other important phone numbers: Access many helpful phone numbers on campus and beyond for services available to the campus community Access additional Resources: List of many helpful web based resources for the campus community SHARE Cornell's sexual harassment and assault response and education resources. Mental Health at Cornell A wide range of resources are available to support the mental health and well-being of Cornell University students, staff, and faculty. Silent Witness Program A confidential, secure way to report non-emergency criminal activity. Report a Crime Cornell University Police Department 117 Statler Drive G2 Barton Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-1111 Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University