COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Wichita State University Student Camille Brashears is an adult learner who wants to begin a freelance graphic design and marketing business after she graduates. May 03, 2022Graduate ProfilesAccess and Affordabilitygraphic designCollege of Fine ArtsAdult Learning Meet a Shocker: Camille Brashears By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Camille Brashears is an adult learner who will graduate in spring 2022. She says she chose to continue her education at Wichita State not only because it was affordable, but also because of the local pride surrounding WSU. Camille is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring/summer 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Guerneville, California Degree Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design and a minor in marketing What made you want to attend Wichita State? It was close to my home and affordable. Plus, the local pride for WSU is palpable, which has been exciting to be part of. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am feeling ready to move onto the next stage of my life but hesitant too because I know it will feel bittersweet to give up what I have come to know so well. What has been your biggest challenge as a student and how dd you overcome it? My situation is a little unique in that not only am I an adult learner, but I have side hustles, I am married, and I have two children under 10 who still count on me for all day assistance that comes with ‘momming.' I had to quickly learn how to prioritize all the things in my life — what to attempt to juggle and what to let fall. An analogy that really helped me was to imagine all the things in your life as balls. The most important ones (like making sure to eat and pay the mortgage) are made of glass and shouldn’t be dropped. The others are plastic — meaning that if they drop, you can usually pick them up later with minimal damage done. This has drastically helped me to give myself grace when I can’t juggle everything. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? Being part of the Strategic Communications offices as a graphic design intern has been invaluable in expanding my knowledge base. I will use everything I learned there to good use. What are your plans after graduation? I will begin by taking a well-earned break and vacation with my family to thank them for their support during this journey. After that, I plan on beginning my own freelance graphic design and marketing business, then settling back and see where life takes me. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? I have admittedly become distanced from the school because of the pandemic and all the time being online. However, it did help foster some important skills like asking for help often, advocating for what I need and repairing those relationships after returning to the classroom. Being a student is hard and having support from classmates and instructors helps to ease that stress tremendously. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? There are countless resources and caring individuals on campus that are available to help you — don’t be afraid to utilize them. Put your face out there and make yourself heard. This university is a steppingstone to your future, not only through what you will learn but who you will meet. You never know which handshake could change your life. Bachelor or Fine Arts in Graphic Design WSU's program prepares students for competitive, client-based work in advertising agencies, design studios, and as part of in-house creative teams for major brands. Many students get a head start on their career with an internship at a local company with a global reach. Learn more about Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Graduates Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel Graduate Profiles Meet a Shocker: Emily Crawford 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©