Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Experiential Learning Legal Clinics About Legal Clinics Elder Law Housing Adjudication Mediation Medical-Legal Partnership Neighborhood Preservation Clinic Faculty & Staff Student Testimonials Community Partners Externships Externships HomepageStudent TestimonialsField Placement Partners Simulation Courses Course Descriptions Experiential Course Forms News Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law Experiential Learning In-House Clinics JAMES S. GILLILAND LEGAL CLINIC For more than 20 years, the University of Memphis James S. Gilliland Legal Clinic has enabled student attorneys to make the connection between legal theory and legal practice by offering them the opportunity to represent actual clients under close clinical faculty supervision. Student attorneys are specially licensed by the Tennessee Supreme Court. The James S. Gilliland Legal Clinic is located on the lower level of the law school building, with a separate exterior entrance plaza for clients. James S. Gilliland Legal Clinic facilities include a research library, interview rooms, conference rooms, and offices equipped with state-of-the-art technology. The following subject-specific Clinics operate as part of the University of Memphis James S. Gilliland Legal Clinic: Elder Law Clinic Housing Adjudication Clinic Mediation Clinic Medical-Legal Partnership Clinic Neighborhood Preservation Clinic During a three-week orientation period, supervising faculty introduce student attorney to skills, and ethics in the subject area of the designated Clinic. All clinics help student attorneys develop core legal skills, regardless of subject area, making the clinical experience transferable to any area of practice. Specific emphasis is placed on: Client interviewing and counseling Fact and witness investigation Formal and informal pretrial discovery Communication with opposing counsel, court staff, and other key personnel Negotiation and settlement Drafting of letters, motions, pleadings, briefs, advanced directives, and/or other legal documents Motions practice and court filing Statutory interpretation Use of experts Mediation preparation Trial preparation and trial advocacy The clinical program adheres to a client-centered approach, requiring the student attorney to visualize her/himself in the client's circumstances. This approach allows students an opportunity to explore the various roles attorneys assume in society, including trial attorney, transactions attorney, interviewer, negotiator, counselor, mediator, facilitator, community builder, legislative advocate, and officer of the court. Student attorneys also are introduced to holistic legal practice, focusing on representation in all forums in which the client may have a legal problem or need a legal solution. The University of Memphis James S. Gilliland Legal Clinic fulfills a critical community service by providing free legal services to under-represented clients – including children, the elderly, and victims of consumer fraud – thus developing first-hand knowledge of ways attorneys can promote social justice and use their law degrees in service to society. STUDENT TESTIMONIALS EXPERIENTIAL COURSE APPLICATIONS AND REGULATIONS Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.