Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Seton Hall University Seton Hall Parents Your student is about to begin an exciting new journey. While you will be with your student every step of the way, your role is going to change. You will move from leading your student to guiding your student, from running the plays to being the coach. We hope the resource you find throughout this site will answer your questions, and even more importantly, it will provide you with information to encourage your student to make the most of his/her experience at Seton Hall University. Welcome Back, Spring 2022 Quick Links Frequently Asked Questions Parent Checklist Getting Involved Meet our Parents Parent Toolkit Send a Care Package Student Handbook Undergraduate Catalogue Tips from a Professor Pirate Ambassador Program Parents Leadership Council Upcoming Events News, Events and More NEWS Campus Cases Drop Update from the Health Intervention and Communication Team: Campus Cases Drop VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS FNA Assists National Security Fellowship Seton Hall’s National Security Fellowship develops an operational paper with recommendations for a federal agency, annually, and was supported by FNA technology for the first time. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS The O’Brien Family Commits $1 Million Towards University Center Renovation Alumnus and His Family Commit $1 Million towards Renovations of the 60-Year-Old Student Building. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS Academic Support Your student's first year is critical to his/her academic success. This is the time students need to lay a solid foundation and develop the skills that will serve them through graduation. Knowing how important the first year is to our students, Seton Hall has several programs to support our students. First, is Freshman Studies - a nationally recognized program that offers comprehensive academic advisement and guidance to help students achieve their goals. The Academic Resource Center provides tutoring, skills workshops, and online resources to assist students in their classes. The Writing Center is available to all students who want assistance with their writing. Tutors is Residence bring tutoring and academic assistance to where students live, right in the residence halls, to make getting help even easier. Housing and Residence Life Living on campus is an enriching experience for students. The residence halls are far more than a place to sleep - this is where students learn and experience some of the lessons and skills that will last them far beyond graduation. Our professional and paraprofessional staffs live in residence with our students to provide support 24 hours per day. The residence hall community is further served by the Priests and Missionaries who live in the halls and encourage students to explore their faith development. As safety of our students is very important, the halls have controlled access and state of the art alarm systems. Public Safety & Security The men and women of the Public Safety & Security department are dedicated to providing a safe environment for our students to live and learn. Security is easily accessible to students through visible patrols, Blue Light emergency phones, and a manned dispatch service. Our security force is supplemented by South Orange Police Department, with whom we have a close working relationship. Through SHUFly and Safe Ride we provide transportation to increase students’ safety off-campus. Students are made aware of any safety emergency through PirateAlert which sends a text message to their phone. Health & Wellness Keeping students healthy in body and mind is key to helping them succeed academically. Campus Health Services is available to all fulltime students. The department is one of only five in the state of New Jersey that has been accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care. We have a full medical staff consisting of doctors, nurse practitioners, and nurses to provide quality health care to our students. Counseling and Psychological Services provides counseling, crisis intervention and consultation to foster the psychological health of students. The staff consists of licensed psychologists who specialize in the needs of college students. Disability Support Services (DSS) provides students with disabilities equal access to all University programs and activities, while raising campus-wide awareness of issues impacting this student population. DSS works collaboratively with academic departments and student affairs offices to engage and support the intellectual and social development of students with disabilities. Learn more » Share Your Pirate Adventure @SetonHall Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top