ALUMNI BC.EDU You are a Beacon for our students Thank you for championing Boston College. Discover your impact on our Eagles and our community. 2020-2021 Giving for Boston College: Your support—whether it’s $10 or $10,000—makes a difference across our community. Donors From Gifts of $1,000 or Less Total Dollars Raised % of Donors in the Neenan Society Donors in the 1863 Society New Members in the Shaw Society “Because of this scholarship, my family and I can breathe more easily… It has given me the opportunity to reach higher than I ever could.” —Peter Huynh ’22 Financial Aid in Action Meet Peter Huynh ’22 With four siblings attending college at the same time, Peter Huynh ’22 knew he’d need significant financial aid to pursue his dream of becoming a physicist. “Without this scholarship, I wouldn’t be here,” he says. “It has relieved much of the financial strain on my family and allowed me to work less and concentrate on my academics.” Peter’s scholarship has done more than help fund his studies—it boosted his self-confidence. “My scholarship tells me that I can walk the extra mile, after all, these donors are helping me take each step.” Passionate about math and science from an early age, Peter came to BC ready to dive into the physics department’s challenging curriculum. “My favorite part is watching my professors tinker with different electrical and magnetic devices to show potential real- world applications of science,” he says. Outside of class, Peter has explored ways to apply his studies to practical concerns. He landed a research internship at local startup Floe, where he helped design prototypes for an automated ice dam prevention system. Inspired by the firm’s entrepreneurial spirit, he has now started his own company building mechanical keyboards. “So far only one customer, but that should change soon,” he says hopefully. When he’s not solving the world’s problems, Peter has a job stacking books at O’Neill Library, and he is active in student organizations including Relay For Life and Elements, the undergraduate research journal of Boston College. Mindful of the rising cost of college, he is grateful for the BC alumni, parents, and others who support financial aid. Your steadfast commitment helps make the Heights a home for thousands of students like Peter each year. “Because of this scholarship, my family and I can breathe more easily, and I can focus on physics,” he says. “It has given me the opportunity to reach higher than I ever could.” Financial Aid in Action Meet Peter Huynh ’22 With four siblings attending college at the same time, Peter Huynh ’22 knew he’d need significant financial aid to pursue his dream of becoming a physicist. “Without this scholarship, I wouldn’t be here,” he says. “It has relieved much of the financial strain on my family and allowed me to work less and concentrate on my academics.” Peter’s scholarship has done more than help fund his studies—it boosted his self-confidence. “My scholarship tells me that I can walk the extra mile, after all, these donors are helping me take each step.” Passionate about math and science from an early age, Peter came to BC ready to dive into the physics department’s challenging curriculum. “My favorite part is watching my professors tinker with different electrical and magnetic devices to show potential real- world applications of science,” he says. Outside of class, Peter has explored ways to apply his studies to practical concerns. He landed a research internship at local startup Floe, where he helped design prototypes for an automated ice dam prevention system. Inspired by the firm’s entrepreneurial spirit, he has now started his own company building mechanical keyboards. “So far only one customer, but that should change soon,” he says hopefully. When he’s not solving the world’s problems, Peter has a job stacking books at O’Neill Library, and he is active in student organizations including Relay For Life and Elements, the undergraduate research journal of Boston College. Mindful of the rising cost of college, he is grateful for the BC alumni, parents, and others who support financial aid. Your steadfast commitment helps make the Heights a home for thousands of students like Peter each year. “Because of this scholarship, my family and I can breathe more easily, and I can focus on physics,” he says. “It has given me the opportunity to reach higher than I ever could.” Read More BE A BEACON CAMPAIGN FOR FINANCIAL AID Illuminating their path toward academic, social, and spiritual formation. Total Commitments to Date BC is one of 20 national research universities that admit students on the merit of their applications, not on their ability to afford tuition, and that then meet 100 percent of their demonstrated need. The University’s dual commitment—to need-blind admission and to meeting students’ full demonstrated need—is what makes BC academically competitive; fosters a rich, vibrant campus community; and increases the value of a BC degree for all alumni. Total Gifts to Date Competitive Excellence in Action Meet Julia Homan ’21 “I would not be the person I am, or have accomplished the things I have at Boston College, without the support of this scholarship. It is my hope that one day I will be able to donate to BC and impact a student’s life the same way. I am so thankful.” —Julia Homan ’21 In her senior year of high school, Julia Homan ’21 was the defensive backbone of a Northern Highlands Regional High School (New Jersey) girls’ soccer team that did not allow a single goal during the regular season. But during the county semi-finals, she severely injured her knee. Still, Julia had earned a scholarship to play at Boston College, so she rehabilitated and began her career as a redshirt freshman at the Heights. Then, during a spring scrimmage, it happened again. “I remember the moment so clearly—the pivot I made, the pop of my knee, the thoughts that rushed through my head, and the disbelief,” Julia recalls. Continued pain and conversations with her doctors led Julia to the inevitable: medical retirement. The abrupt end to her soccer career brought up a new range of emotions. “Although a strong part of me knew it was the right thing, I was scared—scared of losing my identity, of never finding something I would be as passionate about again, and of having my scholarship taken away.” Julia’s scholarship not only meant a great deal to her family financially, it was also a symbol of much more: hard work and sacrifice, training sessions, technical drills, missed proms, frustrating losses, and a chance to compete at the highest level of intercollegiate athletics. Despite her injury, BC chose to honor Julia’s scholarship through graduation. “Being able to keep my scholarship lifted a huge weight off my shoulders,” she says. “It also affirmed to me the care and compassion that Boston College has for the whole person. At a time when I needed it most, the scholarship was evidence that someone cared about how my injury—and not being able to play soccer—would affect me as a person and impact my journey through college.” Medical retirement gave Julia the freedom to enjoy a well-rounded college experience. At first, she dedicated more energy to her school work, adding a minor in managing for social impact and the public good—which helped bridge her interest in finance to her value of service to others—and earning induction into Alpha Sigma Nu, the national honor society for Jesuit universities. Later, she took a job working with the BC Police Department, landed a pair of summer internships, mentored BC underclassmen, and eventually reached her ultimate goal: a job in the global markets division at Goldman Sachs to follow graduation. “I realized it was part of God’s plan. I am a happier and better person now—more engaged in my life, my classes, and my friendships.” In addition to a couple of scars and more free time, the entire experience awarded Julia an appreciation for opportunity. “Although I have tried to put my gratitude into words, they do not do it justice. I would not be the person I am, or have accomplished the things I have at Boston College, without the support of this scholarship. It is my hope that one day I will be able to donate to BC and impact a student’s life the same way. I am so thankful.” Read More Premier Academics in Action Meet Luke Jorgensen ’91 “The students have really responded because this is so important to them. They have been so careful so that these productions can happen. I really admire them for that.” —Luke Jorgensen ’91, P’21, ’23 Luke Jorgensen’s office in Robsham Theater is a closet-like room cluttered with all manner of books and props. During normal times, a slew of students would congregate outside his door, chatting and reading while waiting to meet with him. Today, it is quiet. A few students tinker with props in the workshop, a few colleagues wander around the green room and backstage. More than any one room, it seems that the entirety of Robsham is Jorgensen’s office, community center, playground—he is at home here. The COVID-19 pandemic brought just about all activity in Robsham to a halt. Coming back to campus last fall, Jorgensen, his colleagues, and his students were adamant about bringing theater back (safely) to the Heights. “I was really committed [to the idea] that, if everyone did it correctly, we could make something,” he says. “Of course I want the show to be good. But for me,” he continues, “it’s so much more exciting to see a student develop and be able to experience that thrill when a show goes well and you just know you nailed it. Because it’s hard!” Since the pandemic upended campus life, Jorgensen and his team at Robsham Theater have proved willing pupils, adapting remarkably to the new normal. After putting on two productions in the fall, they built on their success by bringing another four plays to the stage in spring. They have found or created ways to make their safety adjustments work in favor of their art. As for his students, he cannot speak highly enough of them and their commitment. “The students have really responded because this is so important to them. They have been so careful so that these productions can happen. I really admire them for that,” he says. Decades into his BC career, Jorgensen remains genuinely excited—albeit with a healthy dose of caution—about his work producing shows and teaching. He says, “For me, the nature of doing theater is, ‘What’s the next project?’ You get to travel, in a sense—What’s the next world I get to live in with my students?” Your loyalty upholds BC’s transformative education, supporting committed faculty members like Luke Jorgensen in their exemplary teaching as well as their groundbreaking research. Read More Thank You! For additional information about the impact of your giving, please contact our annual giving team at bcfund@bc.edu. BOSTON COLLEGE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 CONNECT WITH US ACCESSIBILITY EMERGENCY CONTACT NOTICE OF NONDISCRIMINATION Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College ×