Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Supporting a Survivor of Sexual Assault Supporting a Survivor of Sexual Assault What Can I Do to Help? The Impact of Sexual Assault Someone who has been sexually assaulted may experience shock, denial, sadness, anger, shame, anxiety, or self-blame. Inability to concentrate or relax and resurfacing memories of past abuse are also common occurrences following a sexual assault. The emotional impact of sexual assault can be both immediate and long lasting. A survivor of sexual assault may confide in you any time after the assault. Sexual assault can be difficult to talk about—you can help by listening and encouraging survivors to seek support. Supporting a Survivor Believe the survivor. Know that revealing this experience takes a great deal of strength and courage. Assure survivors that the assault was not their fault. Normalize and validate feelings that come from the trauma experience. Understand that the survivor’s memory may be fragmented after an assault, with additional or different facts being remembered over time. Realize that behaviors that may seem difficult or obstructive have probably served the survivor well in the past. It is hard to give up a behavior that you believe has kept you safe. Let the survivor lead the conversation. Do not expect instant trust, but do everything in your power to be trustworthy. Survivors should determine the pace and focus of the conversation. Ask the survivor what will help them to feel more comfortable and how you can best work with them. Help survivors understand the options that are available, but let survivors make their own decisions. Avoid asking questions about what occurred; let survivors tell you what they are comfortable sharing. Be careful about providing reassurance. Survivors may interpret reassurances like “everything will be ok” to mean that you don’t understand their feelings. Instead you might say, “I’m sorry this happened to you” or “How can I be helpful?” Maintaining appropriate boundaries is always important, but even more so with survivors, as it contributes to a sense of safety. What to Share with Survivors Remember to ask survivors how you can help, and let survivors make their own decisions. Support those decisions, even if you don’t agree with them. After an assault, survivors may consider the following: Medical Encourage survivors to seek medical attention as soon as possible following a sexual assault. Medical professionals can help identify possible injuries and/or prescribe medication(s) to prevent sexually transmitted infections and/or pregnancy. Evidence Collection Physical evidence is collected in the emergency room by trained medical providers. It is recommended that survivors wait to shower, brush their teeth, or change clothes until after evidence collection. Evidence can still be collected up to 96 hours after an assault. Evidence is useful in any criminal justice investigation, but collection does not commit survivors to filing a police report. Reporting Survivors have the right to report the assault to Columbia University and/or the police. Students can file a complaint against another student through the Student Conduct and Community Standards Office. Students can file a complaint against a faculty or staff member through the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Students also have the right to report a sexual assault to the New York City Police Department or District Attorney's Office. For more information about Columbia University policies on sexual assault visit sexualrespect.columbia.edu. Related Resources Get Support: Sexual Violence Response Supporting Male Survivors of Violence Supporting a Survivor of Sexual Assault Relationship Violence Awareness Month Sexual Assault Awareness Month Sexual Respect NY Crime Victims Legal Help Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close