Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Events at Princeton Start End Search events Category - Any -AcademicsEntrepreneurshipArtsAthleticsCareerCulturalExhibitionsServiceSocial Mindfulness Meditation - Virtual Event Virtual Event 12:30 p.m. Jun 2 MINDFULNESS MEDITATION Thursdays at 12:30pm A weekly breathing meditation session led by Dean Matt Weiner. Open to all Princeton University ID holders (… Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday 8:00 p.m. Jun 2 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Jummah Gathering Murray-Dodge 104 1:00 p.m. Jun 3 JUMMAH PRAYER Fridays at 1pm, Murray-Dodge Hall Join our Jummah Gathering in Murray-Dodge Hall beginning at 1pm Qur’anic Recitation, 1.15pm Call to Prayer (… Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Wallace Dance & Theater 7:30 p.m. Jun 3 Princeton-based actors… Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" 1:00 p.m. Jun 4 A 45-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone… Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Wallace Dance & Theater 2:00 p.m. Jun 4 Princeton-based actors… Sunday Worship Service - Summer Schedule University Chapel 10:00 a.m. Jun 5 SUNDAY WORSHIP SERVICE Sunday, 10am, Princeton University Chapel Join us each Sunday for worship in the University Chapel, led by the dean and the associate… Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" 1:00 p.m. Jun 5 A 45-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone… Weekday Meditation with Dean Matt Weiner - Virtual Event Virtual Event 4:00 p.m. Jun 6 DAILY MEDITATION Weekdays, 4pm, Virtual Event All are welcome to join our ten-minute Weekday (Monday – Friday) Meditation led by Matthew C. Weiner, Ph.D.,… QuIC Biweekly Coffee Hour Frick Chemistry Laboratory 2:00 p.m. Jun 7 Come share coffee with the queerest club in chem! Have a chat, vent to a sympathetic ear, or just procrastinate on tomorrow's presentation! Amor Mundi: Paintings by Cathy Nan Quinlan,  Cecilia Whittaker-Doe and Rachel Youens Wallace Dance & Theater 12:00 p.m. Jun 9 Three New York-based painters present recent landscape and still life paintings in an exhibition curated by visual arts professor Su Friedrich. Princeton… Yoga on the Lawn East Pyne, Courtyard 5:30 p.m. Jun 9 Explore the healing benefits of yoga while you enjoy a beautiful summer evening. Be sure to bring your own mat. Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Saturated and Unsaturated Color 8:00 p.m. Jun 9 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" 12:30 p.m. Jun 14 A 30-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone… Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Color Harmony 8:00 p.m. Jun 16 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… QuIC Biweekly Coffee Hour Frick Chemistry Laboratory 2:00 p.m. Jun 21 Come share coffee with the queerest club in chem! Have a chat, vent to a sympathetic ear, or just procrastinate on tomorrow's presentation! Artist Talk: Marilyn Minter 5:30 p.m. Jun 23 Drawing on the visual languages of fashion photography and advertising, Marilyn Minter makes photographs that are both luscious and bodily. Her work explores… Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Mark Making 8:00 p.m. Jun 23 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" 12:30 p.m. Jun 28 A 30-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone… Library Research Refresher for Geosciences 3:00 p.m. Jun 28 This online session will be a refresher for finding publications, data, and/or imagery for Climate Science, Geochemistry, Geology, Geophysics, Paleoclimate… Library Research Refresher for Chemistry 2:00 p.m. Jun 30 This online session will be a refresher for finding publications, data, and/or imagery for Catalysis… Video Portrait Workshop Art on Hulfish 5:30 p.m. Jun 30 Join instructor Christopher Lopez to learn how to create your own video portrait using your smartphone. Participants will discuss and analyze the significance… Summer Carillon Bell Festival Princeton University Graduate College, 88 College Road West, Princeton, NJ 1:00 p.m. Jul 3 Summer Carillon Bell Festival Celebrating over 25 years of community recitals, the Graduate College will again host a free Summer Concert Series, the Princeton… CCM10 Meeting - Gathering Space Outdoor Spaces 8:00 a.m. Jul 6 The 10th International Symposium on Inorganic Carbon Utilization by Aquatic Photosynthetic Organisms CCM10 Meeting Frick Chemistry Laboratory 8:00 a.m. Jul 6 The 10th International Symposium on Inorganic Carbon Utilization by Aquatic Photosynthetic Organisms CCM10 Meeting - Gathering Space Outdoor Spaces 8:00 a.m. Jul 7 The 10th International Symposium on Inorganic Carbon Utilization by Aquatic Photosynthetic Organisms CCM10 Meeting Frick Chemistry Laboratory 8:00 a.m. Jul 7 The 10th International Symposium on Inorganic Carbon Utilization by Aquatic Photosynthetic Organisms Summer Film Series: Singin' in the Rain (1952) Alexander Beach 7:30 p.m. Jul 7 This year’s outdoor film series features three of our favorite musical films from across the decades. All films begin at sundown on Alexander Beach. Singin’… CCM10 Meeting - Gathering Space Outdoor Spaces 8:00 a.m. Jul 8 The 10th International Symposium on Inorganic Carbon Utilization by Aquatic Photosynthetic Organisms Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" 12:30 p.m. Jul 12 A 30-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page Next › Last page Last » Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice