Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Statistical Science Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Major Minor Courses Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Master’s Degree Tuition Fellowship Degree Timelines Alumni Graduate Videos People Research Research SMU Statistical Consulting Center About About Contact Us Job Openings Seminars North Texas Chapter of the American Statistical Association Give ☰ SMU Department of Statistical Science Academics Departments Statistical Science Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Graduate Programs Research Welcome The SMU Department of Statistical Science is a nationally recognized department with a history of producing outstanding, highly marketable graduates and being at the forefront of statistical research and innovation. The faculty of the Department of Statistical Science consists of internationally renowned scholars who are also widely recognized for their expertise in applying statistical science in very diverse settings including clinical trials, air pollution, medical imagery, census adjustment, educational testing, and genetics. The faculty-to-graduate student ratio in statistics is 1:2. In keeping with a long-standing SMU tradition, all statistics faculty, including senior professors and researchers, teach undergraduate and graduate classes and regularly present seminars. Ph.D. Programs: Statistical Science and Biostatistics Read More Master of Science in Applied Statistics and Data Analytics Read More SMU Statistical Consulting Center Read More Contact the Department of Statistical Science Heroy Hall P.O. Box 750332 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0332 214-768-2441 Congratulations Class of 2021 Want to be a statistics major? News More news Statistical Science Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Research About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube