Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Graduate Leadership Program Home Programs and Services Graduate Leadership Program Graduate Leadership Program Graduate Leadership Program The Graduate Leadership Program (GLP) at Boston College is an in-depth, six-session professional development workshop series designed to help graduate students gain deeper self-awareness as leaders. This program serves the purpose of enhancing the graduate student experience at Boston College through formation, education, leadership, and service. GLP Application Information Two 30-minute information sessions are held on Zoom in order to provide insight and answer any questions regarding this program. Overview Eligibility Time Commitment Application Process 2020 Cohort Overview The Graduate Leadership Program (GLP) at Boston College is an in-depth, six-session professional development workshop series designed to help graduate students gain deeper self-awareness as leaders. This program serves the purpose of enhancing the graduate student experience at Boston College through formation, education, leadership, and service. The overall goal of the GLP is to support graduate and professional students across all disciplines in their journey to understanding their leadership potential by empowering them to take a proactive approach to leadership development. Participants will have the opportunity to learn from experienced faculty, staff, and administration from all areas of Boston College in order to understand personal leadership style, intercultural competency, strategic communication, interdisciplinary teamwork, mentorship, and overall leadership skills and strengths. Eligibility This program is free for all participants. Applicants must be current graduate students. All graduate students are encouraged to apply. Time Commitment Participants are required to attend all dates, which typically span Friday afternoons from mid-February through March. Please email gsc@bc.edu for the exact times and dates for the current academic year. Application Process Information Sessions: Two 30-minute information sessions took place over Zoom in order to provide insight and answer any questions you may have regarding this program. Information Sessions happened on Thursday November 19, 2020 from 11:00am - 11:30am and Tuesday, December 1, 2020 from 1:00pm - 1:30pm. Applications were due December 7, 2020. Graduate Leadership Program Learning Outcomes: Students who attend Orientaiton wil be able to: Identify and evaluate their strengths through the completion of the Clifton Strengths Assessment and a facilitated strengths workshop. Effectively articulate their set of practical leadership skills on a resume, in a portfolio, and during interviews. Address and evaluate relevant campus issues through the develoopment of an action-based small group project. Integrate their lived experiences into their leadership development process. Engage with the greater Boston community through volunteer opportunities as a means to explore one's civic responsibility as a leader. Develop long-lasting meaningful relationships with faculty mentors and peers across various fields of study. Application Materials: Applicants will submit this form, along with their resume and a 1 page personal statement, instructions and the prompt are on page 3 of this application. Application Deadline: December 7, 2020 at 11:59pm EST Acceptance Notice: Applicants will be notified of their acceptance on or before December 14, 2020. Contact If you have any further questions regarding the application process or the overall program, Please contact the Office of Graduate Student Life at gsc@bc.edu for more information. 2020 GLP Cohort WHY SHOULD YOU APPLY? According to the National Association of Colleges and Employers, leadership, the ability to work on a team, written and verbal communication skills, and problem-solving skills were categorized as the top attributes an employer seeks on a candidate's resume (NACE, 2016). The Graduate Leadership Program (GLP) gives students the opportunity to develop their skills in order to prepare them to become effective leaders at Boston College and beyond. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College