Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Jazz Studies Composition Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Jazz Studies Composition Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Jazz Studies Composition Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Jazz Studies Composition Undergraduate Certificate Form an understanding of jazz in the city that inspired its growth and popularity with the Jazz Studies Composition Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Study jazz composition and music theory to further develop your knowledge of the genre. This four-course, 13-credit certificate program is open to any undergraduate student enrolled at Temple who has completed at least 15 credit hours of coursework. Through the curriculum, you’ll learn jazz and pop composition; the history of jazz and how it has evolved; and the influence of jazz on other music genres, from blues to soul to hip-hop. You’ll study how to identify the desired notes and chords for your composition, tailored for your chosen instrument. Learn arrangements that fueled the swing movement, which started in Philadelphia with jazz players like Charlie Gaines and Frankie Fairfax. Seminars in jazz composition and arranging explore bebop, made popular by the achievements of Philadelphia musicians Benny Golson and Lee Morgan. You’ll develop a holistic understanding of the genre, how to play and its iconic influence on music. Classes & Curriculum Core courses should be completed within six semesters, and there are no exit requirements or comprehensive exams, theses, or practica requirements. Completion of the certificate is acknowledged on official transcripts when bachelor’s degrees are awarded. The Jazz Studies Composition Undergraduate Certificate curriculum comprises the following four courses. Jazz Arranging I Seminar in Jazz Composition & Arranging Seminar in Advanced Jazz Composition & Arranging Topics in Music Theory* *Students take a total of 13 credit hours, and Topics in Music Theory is taken twice for a total of six credits. Learn more about courses for the Jazz Studies Composition Undergraduate Certificate. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional information Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Jazz Studies Composition Undergraduate Certificate. Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-JSCO-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Jazz Studies Composition Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info