Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Become a UCF Knight Undergraduate and Graduate Admissions The Next Class of UCF Knights Is Forming From across the nation and around the world, students like you are pursuing their higher education goals in the heart of Central Florida. They’re creating a new future where discoveries happen daily, connections are currency, and a college degree is just the beginning. Will you accept the challenge of pushing yourself to achieve your maximum potential? With more than 230 degree programs, UCF gives you access to extraordinary academics, caring faculty and endless opportunities. Whether you are a freshman or a transfer student, seeking graduate studies or looking for the flexibility of online classes, we are dedicated to supporting personal growth while upholding academic excellence. Apply to UCF Undergraduate Admissions Deadlines Freshman Semester Deadline Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Transfer Semester Deadline Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 International Semester Deadline Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Which type of student are you? Freshman I’m a high school senior or first-time-in-college student (FTIC) seeking a bachelor’s degree. Transfer I’m an undergraduate or DirectConnect to UCF student transferring with existing credits. Online I’m a transfer or graduate student interested in earning my degree online. Graduate I’m seeking a master’s degree, doctorate or graduate certificate. International I’m a non-U.S. citizen seeking an undergraduate or graduate degree. Continuing Education I’m seeking courses and programs for training, certification, professional advancement or personal growth. Which type of student are you? Freshman I’m a high school senior or first-time-in-college student (FTIC) seeking a bachelor’s degree. Transfer I’m an undergraduate or DirectConnect to UCF student transferring with existing credits. Online I’m a transfer or graduate student interested in earning my degree online. Graduate I’m seeking a master’s degree, doctorate or graduate certificate. International I’m a non-U.S. citizen seeking an undergraduate or graduate degree. Continuing Education I’m seeking courses and programs for training, certification, professional advancement or personal growth. Academic Calendar Up Next Withdrawal Deadline June 10 Looking Ahead June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 24 Registration for UCF Employees, UCF Employees' Spouses and Dependents June 24 Registration for State Employees, UCFAA Employees, Non-Degree, Transients, and Audits June 24 Registration for Senior Citizen Audits UCF Students by the Numbers *Fall 2021 60,075 Undergraduate Students 9,847 Graduate Students 484 Medical Students What really sold me on UCF was when I got to visit campus for the first time. Coming in as an out-of-state student, I didn’t think I would feel at home on such a big campus, but everyone was so welcoming.” — Gianna Fanelli, EXCEL and honors student majoring in biology Skip to Section Freshman Admissions Beautiful location. Friendly professors. Challenging academics. Thrilling activities. There are many reasons to apply to UCF, but only one way to do it. Get application information and deadlines, plus answers to all your questions. Admission to UCF is competitive, so we encourage you to apply early. As an incoming first-year student, you should apply between September and November of your high school senior year if you plan to enroll the following summer or fall semester. By applying early, you may benefit from scholarship consideration and housing availability. Take the next step to become a Knight. Explore Further Office of Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Admissions Requirements Admissions Process FAQs Tuition and Financial Aid Admitted Student Info Learn About Majors Take the Next Step Explore The College Tour Videos Visit UCF Apply to UCF Explore the Undergraduate Viewbook Get the degree you want. UCF has more than 230 degree programs in 13 colleges, plus a talented team of faculty and staff to help find what’s right for you. Whatever your passion, we’ll put you on the path to success. Or Browse By: Bachelor’s Master’s Doctorate Top 10 Majors* Top 10 Majors* Psychology Health Sciences Computer Science Biology Nursing Mechanical Engineering Biomedical Sciences Finance Digital Media Integrated Business *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. This is UCF Get facts about UCF, explore stats and rankings Visit UCF Take a tour of our Orlando campus. Apply Now We’ve made it easier than ever to apply to UCF. Transfer Admissions Ready for new opportunities? You’re in good company. According to U.S. News & World Report, more students choose to transfer to UCF than to any other university in the country. Whether you’re planning to complete your bachelor’s degree or are seeking a new college with bigger opportunities, get the tools and support you need to transfer and succeed. Plus, if you earn an A.A. or articulated A.S. degree from one of our partner institutions, DirectConnect to UCF guarantees* you admission. Reach out to the Office of Transfer and Transition Services to help make your transition smooth and seamless. Apply today — or up to a year before you want to start. Explore Further Transfer Admissions Requirements Tuition and Financial Aid Take the Next Step Explore The College Tour Videos DirectConnect to UCF Apply to UCF as a Transfer Student Explore the Transfer Viewbook *Consistent with community/state college and university policy. Limited- and restricted-access programs may require an additional admission process. This is UCF Get facts about UCF, explore stats and rankings Visit UCF Take a tour of our Orlando campus. Apply Now We’ve made it easier than ever to apply to UCF. Online Admissions With more than 25 years of innovation in educational technology, UCF Online offers high-quality distance learning options for both traditional and nontraditional students. You’ll have a dedicated team that guides you every step of the way — from application through graduation — and helps you stay on track to achieve your goals. Choose from fully online offerings, including bachelor’s degrees, graduate degrees, professional certificates and 2+2 baccalaureate completion programs. Learn wherever and whenever you want. It’s convenient and flexible so you can balance school, work and life. Explore Further Online Bachelor’s Degrees Online Master’s Degrees Tuition and Financial Aid for Online Students Take the Next Step Request Information for Online Students Apply to UCF Explore UCF Online About UCF Online 100+ Fully Online Programs 25+ Years of Experience 5+ Areas of Interest Graduate Admissions Thinking about graduate school and beyond? Your next-level education begins right here. With world-class research, pioneering partnerships and renowned faculty, you’ll enjoy a rich blend of academics, research, culture and fun. We work hard to offer graduate degrees that work for you. Explore more than 125 master’s, specialist, doctoral and certificate programs to help you achieve your professional and personal goals. You’ll find plenty of options to expand your graduate studies online and on campus here. Explore Further Graduate Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Fund Your Graduate Education Graduate FAQs Non-degree Seeking Applicants Take the Next Step Apply to Graduate School Learn More about Graduate Admissions Find a graduate program. Continue your education and take the next step in your career. Choose from more than 125 master’s, specialist, doctoral and certificate programs, and get a high quality education without the high cost. Top 10 Graduate Programs* Top 10 Graduate Programs* Social Work MSW Business MBA Medicine MD Hospitality & Tourism Management MS Health Administration MHA Public Administration MPA Nursing Practice DNP Criminal Justice MS Computer Science MS Educational Leadership MA *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. This is UCF Facts, stats and rankings Distance Learning Innovative solutions for learning online Campus Map Locate labs, offices, parking & food International Admissions UCF students come from all over the world. With 150 countries represented on campus, there’s plenty of opportunity to make new friends and enjoy cultural experiences. International students, like you, make significant contributions to our campus learning, community diversity, innovative research and global partnerships. You will get an empowering education from one of the largest universities in the United States, while immersing yourself in exciting activities, sunny weather and a big, beautiful campus. Explore Further Undergraduate International Students Graduate International Students Funding Your Education Take the Next Step Request Information for International Students Apply to UCF Explore the UCF Viewbook Where Students Come From 67 Florida Counties 51 States 150 Countries Continuing Education Gain skills. Get certified. And get ahead. Enroll in credit and noncredit courses, as well as expert test prep programs. Whether you’re just starting out or have worked in an industry for years, certifications can help you achieve your goals and give you a competitive edge in your career. Choose from more than 400 continuing education courses available that are backed by the strength of the university’s resources and experienced industry partners, or learn about customized corporate training programs to meet your company’s needs. Explore Further Browse Courses Custom and Corporate Training Test Prep FAQs Take the Next Step Get Started Browse all Continuing Education Programs University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida