Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Student Employment » Off Campus Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Off Campus Employment International students are not allowed to work off campus without authorization from the Department of Homeland Security. F-1 and J-1 students are typically only allowed to work off campus if they have experience severe economic hardship. However, F-1 students can also be eligible for off-campus work under the sponsorship of an international organization. Severe Economic Hardship If you are an F-1 or J-1 student and have experienced an unforeseen economic hardship during your stay, you may be able to get authorization for off-campus employment. It is up to the UC International to initially determine the legitimacy of the request. Typically, we will consider factors including: Loss of on-campus employment Unexpected loss of a scholarship Serious currency devaluation (when the funds come from abroad) Excessive tuition and fee increases Medical bills Burglary or robbery (with a police report) Substantial increases in living costs Disruption of a sponsor’s income Death of a sponsor If we determine that your situation is a legitimate and unforeseen economic hardship, we can recommend to the DHS that you are granted employment authorization by attaching evidence of the hardship. You will need to: Fill out a Request for Severe Economic Hardship Employment Authorization form. Set up an appointment with our office by calling 513-556-4278. Bring all the documents listed in the form to your appointment. If granted, the employment authorization is valid for part-time employment (20 hours a week or less while school is in session) and full time during scheduled breaks. F-1 Student Employment with an International Organization A special situation exists for F-1 students who have been offered employment under the sponsorship of an international organization, as defined by the International Organization Immunities Act. A student seeking permission to work for such an organization makes an application to the Department of Homeland Security by submitting: A written certification from the organization that the proposed employment is within the scope of the organization’s sponsorship. A Form I-20 ID endorsed for employment in SEVIS by UC International within the last 30 days. A completed Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, with the fee required. If you believe that your off-campus job fits this circumstance, make an appointment with our office to get your I-20 endorsed. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top