Dolph Briscoe Center for American History Visit. Explore. Discover. Give Login Research Find A Collection Digital Collections Reading Room Online Reference Tools Duplication Services Smith Research Travel Award Briscoe Center Graduate Research Fellowship in American History Class Visits and Instructional Services Collections American Energy Industry American South Archives of American Mathematics Civil Rights and Social Justice Congressional and Political History Documentary Photography Historical Quilts News Media History Music and Entertainment History Photography Photojournalism Texas History The University of Texas History Western Americana Historic Sites Briscoe-Garner Museum Sam Rayburn Museum Winedale Exhibitions Projects Books Support History Now Fund Halstead Photographic Archives Internship Giving Opportunities Director’s Circle Endowments Many Ways to Give Campaign to Make History (2012–2017) About Who We Are News and Features Director’s Message Staff Directory Advisory Council Jobs and Internships Contact Us Visit Research and Collections Briscoe-Garner Museum Sam Rayburn Museum Winedale Papers of Renowned Attorney David Berg Donated to Briscoe Center for American History AUSTIN, Texas – May 10, 2022 The Dolph Briscoe Center for American History at The University of Read more Help honor the legacy of one of the center’s iconic photojournalists Read more Briscoe Center Acquires Historic Collections of Richard Goodwin and Doris Kearns Goodwin Read more Don Carleton discusses his dual biography of Will and Oveta Hobby Read more Upcoming exhibit features stunning highlights from Polidori’s archive Read more AT A GLANCE News Exhibitions Books Programs Papers of Renowned Attorney David Berg Donated to Briscoe Center for American History The Dolph Briscoe Center for American History at The University of Texas at Austin is pleased to announce the donation of the David Berg Papers, an important addition to the center’s collections on legal history and social justice. In Memoriam: Sen. Robert C. Krueger, 1935–2022 The Briscoe Center mourns the loss of former U.S. Ambassador and Senator Robert “Bob” C. Krueger, who died April 30, 2022 in his hometown of New Braunfels, Texas. Help honor the legacy of one of the center’s iconic photojournalists Memorial contributions may be made to fund an internship in Dirck Halstead’s name at the Briscoe Center for American History at The University of Texas at Austin. More News and Features New Acquisitions: The Richard N. Goodwin and Doris Kearns Goodwin Papers April 7, 2022 – July 29, 2022 Briscoe Center for American History, Austin, Texas Weatherby Gallery Present/Past: The Robert Polidori Photographic Archive Briscoe Center for American History, Austin, Texas Main Exhibition Gallery, Sid Richardson Hall Unit 2 “One Night in Miami”: From Photo to Film December 9, 2021 – May 8, 2022 LBJ Presidential Library and Museum, Austin, Texas Great Hall About Our Exhibits Voice Lessons By Alice Embree Alice Embree, a nationally known writer and activist for social justice, tells how history was made in Texas. With the Bark Off: A Journalist’s Memories of LBJ and a Life in the News Media By Neal Spelce with Thomas Zigal Austin journalist Neal Spelce’s years working with LBJ were once-in-a-lifetime experiences, but only part of his award-winning media career. The Governor and the Colonel: A Dual Biography of William P. Hobby and Oveta Culp Hobby By Don Carleton This dual biography chronicles the lives of Will and Oveta Hobby; their impact on local, state, and national events; and how their marriage and media empire helped shape twentieth-century journalistic and political history. Explore Our Books Don Carleton discusses his dual biography of Will and Oveta Hobby Dr. Don Carleton shares the research efforts behind his most recent book, a dual biography of Will and Oveta Hobby, and discusses the significant impact the “Hobby Team” had on Texas and U.S. history. Astronaut Karen Nyberg joins the American Rhapsody podcast It might surprise you that the Briscoe Center’s collections are not only global in their reach—they are, literally, astronomical. In this episode, we will explore outer space through the art of quilts. New Podcast Episode with Alice Embree and Julia Mickenberg First drawn into the fight against racial segregation in the 1960s, Alice Embree embarked on a lifelong journey of social activism involving a wide array of grassroots political, economic, social, and cultural causes. Listen Now to American Rhapsody LEARN ABOUT OUR HISTORIC SITES BRISCOE—GARNER MUSEUM Uvalde, Texas SAM RAYBURN MUSEUM Bonham, Texas WINEDALE Round Top, Texas Visitor Information The University will be closed on Monday, May 30, 2022 for Memorial Day. In-person research in our Sid Richardson Hall Reading Room is available by appointment only. More details are available on our Research page. Our main exhibition galleries in Sid Richardson Hall are open to the public Mondays-Fridays. Reservations are recommended. Our historic sites are open to the public. Please see the Visit page for details. Our staff continues to monitor online queries and requests. We are providing remote reference services via email, phone, or teleconference, as well as duplication/digitization services. Contact us (below) and select "Reference" from the dropdown to request assistance. More details are available on our Research page. The Briscoe Center has a variety of online tools to help researchers explore our collections and find the information they seek. These tools include databases, subject guides, and others that are free to peruse online. Visit our Online Reference Tools page to get started. Contact Us Research Links Registration / Login Find a Collection Digital Collections Research Collections Historic Sites Exhibitions Projects Books Contact Us Plan Your Visit News Jobs and Internships Support Sign Up for E-News Facebook Twitter YouTube 2300 Red River St. Sid Richardson Hall, Unit 2 Austin, Texas 78712-1426 UT Home | Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility | Web Privacy | Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Briscoe Center for American History Research Find A Collection Digital Collections Reading Room Online Reference Tools Duplication Services Smith Research Travel Award Briscoe Center Graduate Research Fellowship in American History Class Visits and Instructional Services Collections American Energy Industry American South Archives of American Mathematics Civil Rights and Social Justice Congressional and Political History Documentary Photography Historical Quilts News Media History Music and Entertainment History Photography Photojournalism Texas History The University of Texas History Western Americana Historic Sites Briscoe-Garner Museum Sam Rayburn Museum Winedale Exhibitions Projects Books Support History Now Fund Halstead Photographic Archives Internship Giving Opportunities Director’s Circle Endowments Many Ways to Give Campaign to Make History (2012–2017) About Who We Are News and Features Director’s Message Staff Directory Advisory Council Jobs and Internships Contact Us Visit Research and Collections Briscoe-Garner Museum Sam Rayburn Museum Winedale ×