Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life School of Medicine Wichita About Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About School of Medicine Wichita About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita About Healthy Hawks At KU School of Medicine-Wichita, we strive to create a culture of overall wellness. Our campus is a proud participant in the WorkWell KS initiative. Additionally, our students, residents, faculty and staff members have access to a variety of health and wellness resources. Campus Wellness Resources Wellness Room Our modern fitness room is located in the basement of our main building and is open to everyone on campus. A campus access card is required to gain entry along with a Wellness Room consent form. For more information, contact our Safety & Emergency Management department at somwemergencysafety@kumc.edu. Equipment available for use: Treadmills Elliptical Recumbent Bike Weight System Weight Bench Dumbbells Bosu Balance Trainer Yoga Balls Step Platforms Mats TVs with cable, VHS & DVD player Restroom with shower, towels and private changing area Campus walking maps We have walking routes that offer the perfect opportunity to take a break from your desk and enjoy a brisk walk around campus. Check out our inside walking map and our outside walking map. Ideas to get moving Having a meeting? Consider a walking meeting - or go wild and host the meeting in the Wellness Room. Do some light weightlifting with the free weights as you discuss your agenda. Going up? Take the stairs if you can instead of the elevator. Bonus: It helps the environment by saving electricity. Standing desks are rising in popularity on the campus. Check out this article from Healthline about the benefits of using a standing desk. Mental health awareness We can all help prevent suicide. Anyone could be struggling. The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline provides free, confidential support and resources for people in distress: 1-800-273-8255, or contact the Crisis Text Line by texting TALK to 741741. The local 24/7 suicide prevention hotline is 316-660-7500. Additional resources: Learn how to spot suicide warning signs. Screening for Adult Depression ACGME Physician Well-Being Tools & Resources American Psychiatric Association website on suicide prevention "Time to Talk About It: Physician Depression & Suicide" - AAMC MedEdPORTAL publication "Make a Difference: Preventing Medical Trainee Suicide" - Mayo Clinic awareness video Resources from the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, including toolkits for medical schools, residency programs and fellowships Resources for students, resident physicians and employees KU School of Medicine-Wichita students can access personal counseling resources through the ASA SharePoint site. Employee Assistance Programs and resources are also available for KUSM-W resident doctors, along with KUSM-W faculty and staff members and Medical Practice Association employees. Mother's Room KU School of Medicine-Wichita has a dedicated space for nursing mothers and received the Gold Level Breastfeeding Employees Support Award from the Kansas Breastfeeding Coalition. The Mother's Room is adjacent to Roberts Amphitheater. KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.