Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Departments Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Concentration & Academics Management & Leadership Entrepreneurship Co-concentration Minor for Non-Carroll School Students Sample List of Electives Management & Leadership Concentration The Management and Leadership concentration will help develop and enhance your ability to lead and manage people and organizations. These skills are highly desired by virtually all potential employers, making the Management and Leadership concentration beneficial to all Carroll School undergraduates. Upon completing the concentration, students will (1) demonstrate an appreciation for the fundamentals and complexity of successful leadership; (2) identify exemplary leadership in themselves and others; and (3) demonstrate skills of effective leadership. In addition to taking MGMT1021 Organizational Behavior, the concentration requires MGMT2127 Leadership and three electives. Two electives in particular are highly recommended for this concentration: MGMT2123 Negotiation and MGMT2137 Managing Diversity. Required Courses: Course # Course Name Notes Two Core Courses MGMT1021 Organizational Behavior MGMT2127 Leadership Three MGMT Electives View the sample list of electives for a list of offerings. Please note, not all courses are available each semester. Visit the Course Information and Schedule page in Agora for a current list of offerings. Entrepreneurship Co-concentration Are you interested in revolutionizing markets or joining a firm that does? The Entrepreneurship co-concentration provides a strong background for launching and managing high-growth ventures in nascent or high-velocity industries. The curriculum introduces a set of tools and a way of thinking that will help students to navigate the uncertain, ambiguous contexts that often characterize new initiatives in established firms as well as start-ups. The Entrepreneurship co-concentration is designed to be a second concentration for Carroll School of Management students. Up to one class from the co-concentration course list can be counted towards another concentration. The courses in the co-concentration include the following: Course # Course Name MGMT2170 Entrepreneurial Management Choose one of the following four courses: ISYS3315 Special Topics: Managing Digital Innovation MFIN2210 Entrepreneurial Finance MGMT2139 Social Innovation & Entrepreneurship MFIN6602 Venture Capital Choose two additional electives either from the list above or from the following list: BSLW6604 Law for the Entrepreneur ISYS3178 Special Topics: Design Thinking ISYS3205 TechTrek West ISYS3206 TechTrek East ISYS3253/MKTG3253 Digital Commerce ISYS6621/MKTG6621 Social Media, Emerging Tech., and Digital Business ISYS6640/MKTG6640 Analytics and Business Intelligence MGMT2123 Negotiation MGMT2139 Social Impact and Entrepreneurship MKTG3156 Digital Marketing MKTG3158 Product Planning & Strategy MKTG3170 Entrepreneurial Marketing in a Digital World MKTG3178 Design Thinking UGMG1010 Perspectives on Management UNAS1025 Innovation Through Design Thinking For more information, please contact the Shea Center for Entreprenurship. Minor in Management & Leadership A minor in Management and Leadership is offered to students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Lynch School of Education, and Connell School of Nursing who are interested in pursuing management careers. This minor focuses on the behavioral side of management by offering courses designed to increase students’ knowledge of leadership and management and build skills in these areas. Students must complete six courses offered by the Management and Organization Department. The Management and Leadership minor will help students develop and enhance their ability to lead and manage people and organizations. More specifically, students will: Develop an appreciation for the fundamentals and complexity of successful leadership Identify exemplary leadership in themselves and others Demonstrate effective leadership and management skills Required Courses: Course # Course Name Notes Two Core Courses MGMT1021 Organizational Behavior So. or Jr. Year MGMT2127 Leadership So. or Jr. Year Four MGMT Electives (Jr.–Sr. Year) View the sample list of electives for a list of offerings. Please note, not all courses are available each semester. Visit the Course Information and Schedule page in Agora for a current list of offerings. The Management and Leadership minor prepares students for managerial roles in corporations, non-profit organizations, and government agencies. The common thread is managing people. In addition, the concentration provides excellent preparation for a career in management consulting, which focuses on diagnosing and solving management problems in client organizations. For more information, please consult Professor Richard Spinello to set up an appointment. The This Week in CSOM newsletter has an edition specifically for Carroll School minors. Check it out for information regarding upcoming events, advising deadlines, leadership opportunities, and internships. This Week in CSOM minors newsletter Sample List of Electives Below is a sample list of electives available for undergraduate students. Additional courses may be added in the future. Please note, not all courses are available each semester. Please visit the Course Information and Schedule page in Agora for an up-to-date list of current offerings and prerequisites. Course # Course Name MGMT2110 Human Resources Management MGMT2111 Ethical Leadership Skills MGMT2123 Negotiation MGMT2132 Managing Change MGMT2133 Leading High Performance Teams MGMT2137 Managing Diversity MGMT2139 Social Impact and Entrepreneurship MGMT2140 International Management MGMT2143 Idea Work: Making Things That Matter MGMT2170 Entrepreneurial Management MGMT2175 Thinking Strategically Integrative Strategy Simulation MGMT2177 Leadership in Action: Lessons from Exploration and Adventure MGMT2260 Leadership and Corporate Accountability MGMT2265 Globalization, Culture, and Ehtics MGMT4901 Independent Study MGMT5548/UNCP5548 Capstone: Leadership and Mindfulness Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College