Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Student Engagement Ethics Essay Prize The Ethics Essay Prize SMU’s Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility is proud to host the second year of the Ethics Essay Prize - an essay competition open to all undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at SMU. The competition is intended to encourage the development of ethical discernment, imagination, and thoughtful reflection among students. We hope it will challenge students to consider the role of ethics in their lives. Further, the contest provides the Maguire Ethics Center with valuable insights into topics of importance to students. Prizes First Place: $1,000 Second Place: $500 Third Place: $300 Honorable Mentions: $200 Essay Topic The Maguire Ethics Essay Prize is an open ethics-topic contest. To be considered, the essay should describe an ethical issue you have encountered and examine what it taught you (or what you are still learning from it). You may have been influenced by a class you took, a professor who inspired you, a piece of art that evoked response, a law that affects you, a meaningful research experience, some moral quandary you have faced, or something that provides you with peace or happiness. There is no “right” topic. The undergraduate portion of the contest is conducted during the fall semester and the graduate portion is during the spring semester. Please check back here for more information as fall of 2022 approaches. Essays will be judged on Clear articulation and genuine struggle with an ethical dilemma Originality and imagination A demonstration of robust ethical analysis and moral reflection The quality of the writing Adherence to guidelines and careful proofing Submission Requirements Essays must be submitted in a Microsoft Word document file attached to an e-mail to maguire_ethics@smu.edu. The title of the Microsoft Word document file name must be the Entrant’s last name only (e.g., LastName.docx). Essays should be 4,000 – 6,000 words, not exceeding 6,000 words. Essays must be written by a single author, typed in Times New Roman 12-point font, double-spaced. Each entry must include author’s contact information. The first page of the single Word document file must be the cover page, which must include the author’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, current classification (e.g., First Year, Second Year, etc.), and anticipated graduation date, as well as the word count of the essay (excluding cover page and references). This information must be included on the cover page only; essays including the author’s name on other pages of the essay will not be reviewed. Essays must be the work of a single author and must be an original work. Only your first submission will be accepted. Further submissions will not be read. References must be included. Plagiarism will lead to disqualification. ALL INFORMATION SUBMITTED MUST BE NON-CONFIDENTIAL. These essays may be published. Employees of the Maguire Ethics Center (and the immediate family members of said employees) are not eligible to participate in the contest. Winning essays will be shared widely and featured on the Maguire Ethics Center’s website and social media sites. For more information, including eligibility and submission information, please email Adria Richmond, program specialist for the Maguire Ethics Center, at arichmond@smu.edu. Previous Winners Fall 2021 undergraduate winners: First Prize: The Ethical Considerations of Spermbot Written by Bradley Kucera, a fourth year in the class of 2022 studying History and Human Rights with a minor in African/American- American Studies. Second Place: The Epistemic Exploitation and the Plight of the Minority in America Written by Reeth Magoo, a third year in the class of Dec. 2022 studying Philosophy with a minor in History, Political Science, and Law and legal Reasoning. Third Place: My Faith or My Country: A Choice No One Should Make Written by Ruhani Ahluwalia, a first year in the class of 2025 studying Biology and Art. Honorable Mention: Intergenerational Approaches to Rights in the Climate Crisis Written by Isabelle Galko, a fourth year in the class of 2022 studying Environmental Sciences with minors in Public Policy and International Affairs, Human Rights, and Women and Gender Studies. Honorable Mention: The Moral Obligation of Helping A Stranger Written by Keely McNeme, a fourth year in the class of Dec. 2022 studying Political Science, International Studies, Corporate Communication and Public Affairs and a minor in History Spring 2022 graduate student winners: First Prize: Nazi War Criminals in the United States and the Fight to Rectify Injustice Written by Ann Marie Dell, Doctor of Liberal Studies candidate Second Place: The Intentionality of Poor Living Conditions on Death Row in the United States Written by Louis Siebrits, Doctor of Liberal Studies candidate Third Place: Climbing into the Canopy: Ecological and Ethical Entanglements in Costa Rica’s Cloud Forest Written by Megan Brown, Anthropology PhD candidate Honorable Mention: Setting Retirement on Fire? Communal and Ethical Reflections on Retirement Strategies Written by Danny Sebastian, Religious Studies PhD candidate Honorable Mention: The Pedagogy of Racial Ignorance Written by RL Holmes, Doctor of Liberal Studies candidate Student Engagement Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share