Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Campus Safety and Security Evening Shuttle Van/Escort Service 617-495-0400 The Evening Shuttle Van Service is designed to provide transportation throughout the Cambridge and Allston campuses as a supplement to the shuttle bus. Rides are free and available on request between 7 p.m. and 3 a.m. Calls are taken until 2:40 a.m. Please call ahead as the wait may be as long as a half-hour. Harvard University Campus Escort Program (HUCEP) 617-384-8237 HUCEP teams who are trained and supervised by the HUPD provide walking escorts to students, faculty and staff seven nights a week during the academic year and cover the Yard, River, and Quad areas. Teams are identified by their brightly colored vests labeled HUCEP. Escorts respond to calls for service through the HUCEP hotline 617-384-8237 or 617- 38HUCEP, and can be flagged down by students, faculty and staff in need of an escort. Escort teams also are encouraged to ask solo walkers if they would like an escort to their destination. Missing Persons Policy As required under federal law, the Harvard Graduate School of Education immediately will refer to the Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) any missing persons report involving a student who lives in on-campus housing. If any member of the Harvard community has reason to believe that a student who resides in on-campus housing is missing, they should immediately notify HUPD at 617-495-1212. If HUPD determines that the student has been missing for more than 24 hours, then, within the 24 hours following this determination, the school or HUPD will: Notify an appropriate external law enforcement agency, unless the local law enforcement agency was the entity that made the determination that the student is missing Contact anyone the student has identified as a missing person contact under the procedures described below Notify others at the university, as appropriate, about the student’s disappearance In addition to identifying a general emergency contact person, students residing in on-campus housing have the option to identify confidentially a separate person to be contacted by Harvard in the event that the student is determined to be missing for more than 24 hours. Students are not required to designate a separate individual for this purpose and if they choose not to do so, then Harvard will assume that they have chosen to treat their general emergency contact as their missing person contact. Students who wish to identify a confidential missing person should notify the Registrar. A student’s confidential missing person contact will be accessible only by authorized campus officials and by law enforcement in the course of an investigation, and may not be disclosed outside of a missing person investigation. In addition, if it has been determined that a student who is under 18 years of age and not emancipated has been missing for more than 24 hours, then HGSE or HUPD will contact that student’s custodial parent or guardian, in addition to contacting any additional contact person designated by the student. Students are reminded that they must provide the Registrar with emergency contact information and/or confidential missing persons contact information if they have not already done so. Police Escort 617-495-1213 The Harvard University Police Department provides rides within the campus environs when the escort service is not operating and a student feels at risk or unsafe. Playing It Safe Annually, the Harvard University Police Department produces a report that outlines the university’s campus safety and security policies, procedures, and practices. This publication, "Playing It Safe," describes programs and services designed to promote safety and security and to help members of the Harvard community prevent and report crime. It also includes crime statistics for the campus area, as required by the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (the “Clery Act”). A copy of "Playing it Safe" can be found online. In addition, the HUPD disseminates community advisories and crime alerts after a serious or violent crime that may pose a continuing public safety threat is reported to the HUPD or local police departments. Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, 6th Floor | http://www.hupd.harvard.edu Urgent: 617-495-1212 Business: 617-495-1215 TDD: 617-495-1211 Blue-light emergency phones on the Harvard campus connect directly to the Harvard Police. These phones should be used to report suspicious activity, crimes in progress or any emergency situation. In addition, University Centrex phones (gray) placed at Harvard locations can be used to contact the HUPD at 617-495- 1212. Visit the HUPD website for important safety tips. HUPD Crime Prevention Unit 617-495-1795 Personal protection and Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) workshops are offered. Students should contact the Office of Student Affairs to arrange or schedule a workshop mentioned above or any other safety/crime issues they would like to be addressed. HUPD Laptop Registration Harvard University Police Department 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, 6th Floor 617-495-1795 | http://www.hupd.harvard.edu/laptop.php Through the HUPD website, a free service provided by the HUPD where HUPD maintains a database that stores the make, model, and serial number of your laptop. In the event of loss or theft, HUPD can identify the owner if it is recovered. This is a free registration through Absolute Software’s LoJack for Laptops. In the event of the loss or theft of the laptop, the company will work with HUPD and local police to try to recover your laptop if it is stolen. The technology they use is embedded in most PCs, making it very difficult to detect and remove. It allows you to remotely display a message and lock your device so that no one else can log on and search your files, photos or passwords. You can also remotely delete files, photos, passwords, emails, financial data and records, and can use GPS, WiFi or IP to display your device’s general location on a map. A four year (4) subscription costs $30. To register your laptop online please visit https://www.hupd.harvard.edu/laptop-theft-prevention HGSE Bike Policy HGSE is committed to being a bike friendly campus. As such, we try to make biking as convenient as possible for the members of our community. In return, we ask our bikers to be good citizens and also follow a few simple rules designed to help keep everyone safe: Do not ride bicycles on the sidewalk Lock bikes to one of the many bike racks around campus (not to hand railings, benches, trees, trash receptacles, or parking meters). Bikes parked illegally will be issued a warning; bikes will be removed and stored after a second warning; bikes not claimed after two weeks will be donated to charity. For security, lock bike frame and one wheel to a bike rack. Register bikes with the University Policy Department to aid in the recovery of stolen or lost bikes, visit www.hupd.harvard.edu/bicycle-registration. City of Cambridge Municipal Parking & Non-Resident Student Driver Statements and Decals Nonresident Student Driver Statements And Decals The Massachusetts Motor Vehicle Law requires out-of-state students bringing vehicles into the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to file a nonresident driver statement with the local police department in the city in which their university is located: “IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR A NONRESIDENT STUDENT TO FAIL TO FILE A NONRESIDENT DRIVER STATEMENT WITH THE POLICE DEPARTMENT LOCATED IN THE SAME CITY OR TOWN AS THE SCHOOL OF COLLEGE ATTENDED, IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 3 OF CHAPTER 90 OF THE MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL LAWS. FAILURE TO FILE SUCH STATEMENT IS PUNISHABLE BY A FINE NOT TO EXCEED $200.” Instructions: Complete the Nonresident Driver Statement: https://www.mass.gov/doc/nonresident-student-vehicle-information-form/download Mail completed Nonresident Driver Statement to: The Parking Office, Campus Service Center, 8th Floor 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 Upon receipt and processing, student will receive a nonresident student driver decal from the University Parking Office. Display decal prominently in the uppermost center portion of the vehicle’s windshield. If students bring a vehicle registered in a state other than Massachusetts, they will be required to obtain Massachusetts registration within 90 days. If students live in Cambridge, they will need a resident parking permit in order to park on the street. To obtain a permit, students must show proof that their car is registered and insured in Massachusetts and that they are a Cambridge resident. Parking permits are available at the Department of Traffic, Parking, and Transportation, 238 Broadway or call 617-349-4700. Note: Most metered parking spaces in Cambridge restrict the user to one-time use and do not allow parking past the initial time limit. If a meter is marked “one hour,” the car in that space must be moved after one hour or be subject to be ticketing, even if more money is put into the meter for a second hour. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice