Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Business Graduate Programs Menu Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions Baylor>Business Graduate Programs>Army-Baylor Programs>About Army-Baylor>Army-Baylor Program History Army-Baylor Program History The Army-Baylor University Graduate Program in Health Administration started in 1947 as a three-month course in the Department of Administration at the Medical Field Service School (MFSS) at Fort Sam Houston, Texas which awarded Certificates of Training in Hospital Administration. The course was expanded to twenty weeks in 1949, and in 1951 the MFSS hospital training program became affiliated with the Graduate School of Baylor University in Waco, Texas, making it the 11th graduate hospital administration program in the country. The course was lengthened to 39 weeks, and in 1952, the program became accredited as a member of the Association of University Programs in Hospital Administration (AUPHA). The first graduates of the affiliated program received Masters degrees in May 1953. In 1969, the name was changed to the U.S. Army-Baylor University Graduate Health Care Administration Program, awarding the masters of health administration (MHA) degree through Baylor and the Army Medical Department (AMEDD) Academy of Health Sciences at Fort Sam Houston. In 1983, the curriculum was lengthened to twelve months (four semesters) consisting of sixty graduate hours, maintaining the one-year administrative residency requirement. Beginning with the 2005-2007 class, the Army-Baylor University Graduate Program offered an additional joint MHA/MBA degree through the Baylor University Business School. The Army-Baylor University Graduate Program in Health Administration maintains full membership status with AUPHA and is fully credentialed by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) as well as being accredited as part of the Graduate School of Baylor University through the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities. The Master of Business Administration degree, awarded with the joint MHA/MBA degree program, is accredited through the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). Though there are numerous training programs in health services, it is the only fully accredited graduate program for health care administration in the Federal system. Students have included officers (active duty and reservists) from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and civilian personnel from the Department of the Army and the Department of Veterans Affairs. The current MHA and joint MHA\MBA curriculums consists of 66 and 87 academic hours respectively, conducted during a 54-week period that prefaces a 12-month administrative residency at a medical treatment facility that contributes 9 credit hours toward degree completion. A typical class is comprised of physicians, nurses, administrators, and other allied health professionals. For over 60 years the Army Baylor program has provided professional hospital and healthcare leadership around the globe for peace and wartime missions that have involved patient and casualty care from the Korean and Vietnam conflicts to the Gulf wars, the War on Terrorism and humanitarian efforts around the world. Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions