Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Political Science Toggle navigation Main navigation People Standing Faculty Staff Ph.D. Students Students on the Job Market Professor Emeritus In Memoriam Secondary Appointments Post-Doctoral and Visiting Scholars Non-Standing Faculty Undergraduate Courses & Requirements Honors & Prizes Careers Internship Opportunities Transfer & Study Abroad Pi Sigma Alpha Undergraduate Research Freshmen & Prospective Majors Graduate Admissions Ph.D. Requirements Recent Placements On the Job Market Doctoral Student List Resources for Funding & Job Search News Events Courses Programs Contact Search Home Page Why Political Science? A degree in political science offers an immense number of career options in the public and private sectors, both in the United States and abroad. Typical careers include government, law, business, international and civic organizations, journalism, and education. Learn More Programs The department’s combination of distinction and diversity has resulted in a rapid expansion of the undergraduate program and a newly invigorated Ph.D. program. Our faculty and graduate students play key roles in numerous centers and organizations across Penn’s campus whose missions bear on topics of interest to political scientists. Learn More News Graduate Student Awards Chloe Ricks has been named a CTL (Center for Teaching & Learning) Fellow for 2022-23. Tyler Leigh has also been named a CTL Fellow for 2022-23.…Read More Ira H. Abrams Memorial Award for Distinguished Teaching Rudra Sil has been awarded the Ira H. Abrams Memorial Award for Distinguished Teaching. The Ira H. Abrams Memorial Award for Distinguished Teaching…Read More Teaching Awards for Abigail Dym and Nicholas Dias Abigail Dym has received the Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching by Graduate Students while Nicholas Dias has been awarded the Penn Prize for…Read More Penn students, Indigenous Leaders from Argentina and Chile, and CLALS Director, Tulia Falleti produce the film: Gente de la tierra: Indigeneidad y política en Argentina y Chile (People of the Land: Indigeneity and politics in Argentina and Chile) CLALS Director and Class of 1965 Endowed Term Professor of Political Science, Tulia Falleti, in collaboration with Mapuche and other Indigenous…Read More Penn Placements 2021-2022 Congratulations to all our recent and soon-to-be Ph.D.'s who will be starting off in new positions this coming Fall (or in some cases already started…Read More Hirschmann Named Segal Professor in American Social Thought Nancy J. Hirschmann has been appointed Geraldine R. Segal Professor in American Social Thought. Read more here.Read More APSA's Paul Lazarsfeld Best Paper Award Sumitra Badrinathan's paper "Educative Interventions to Combat Misinformation: Evidence from a Field Experiment in India" has been awarded APSA's…Read More Council on Foreign Relations invites PWH Director Michael Horowitz to be senior fellow Penn professor and Perry World House Director Michael Horowitz has been appointed as a senior fellow of the David Rockefeller Studies Program in the…Read More APSA's Information Technology & Politics section award Guy Grossman's article "Information Technology and Political Engagement: Mixed Evidence from Uganda" with Macartan Humphreys and Gabriella Sacramone-…Read More Hajer Al-Faham Awarded AAUW Fellowship Hajer Al-Faham has been named a 2021 American Association of University Women (AAUW) Dissertation Fellow. Each year, this prestigious fellowship is…Read More About Us Penn’s Political Science Department is experiencing a renaissance. Over the past decade, our faculty has grown by 50%, an increase in quantity that has been matched by gains in quality. The strength of our faculty in each of four major subfields is being built with an eye to excellence embracing a variety of approaches and methodologies. Featured People Jeffrey Green Professor and Director of Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy jegr@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-7649 Read Bio Yue Hou Janice and Julian Bers Assistant Professor in the Social Sciences yuehou@sas.upenn.edu Read Bio Erik Wibbels Read Bio Julia Lynch Professor jflynch@sas.upenn.edu 215-746-8312 Read Bio Daniel Gillion Julie Beren Platt and Marc E. Platt Presidential Distinguished Professor of Political Science dgillion@sas.upenn.edu 898-6187 Read Bio Anne Norton Stacey and Henry Jackson President’s Distinguished Professor anorton@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-6324 Read Bio Dorothy Kronick Assistant Professor kronick@sas.upenn.edu Read Bio Alex Weisiger Associate Professor weisiger@sas.upenn.edu 746-2318 Read Bio Books The Spirit of Compromise: Why Governing Demands It and Campaigning Undermines It To govern in a democracy, political leaders have to compromise. When they do not, the result is political paralysis―dramatically demonstrated by the gridlock in Congress in recent years. The Substance of Representation Congress, American Political Development, and Lawmaking Lawmaking is crucial to American democracy because it completely defines and regulates the public life of the nation. The Eyes of the People: Democracy in an Age of Spectatorship For centuries it has been assumed that democracy must refer to the empowerment of the People's voice. The Loud Minority: Why Protests Matter in American Democracy How political protests and activism have a direct influence on voter and candidate behavior The Diffusion of Military Power: Causes and Consequences for International Politics The Diffusion of Military Power examines how the financial and organizational challenges of adopting new methods of fighting wars can influence the international balance of power. Prospective majors mailing list Make a Gift Contact Us Department of Political Science The Ronald O. Perelman Center for Political Science and Economics 133 S. 36th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6215 Phone: (215) 898-7641 Michael Jones-Correa Chair Rudra Sil Graduate Chair Michele Margolis Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin