Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Department of Physics Menu Main Nav Department of Physics Department of Physics Seminars & Colloquia Back Back Close About Overview Contact Giving to Physics News and Notes Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Program Description Requirements Courses Typical 4-Year Sequence Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Related Links Teaching Laboratories Lecture Demonstrations Society of Physics Students Undergraduate Resource Room Graduate Overview Application Information Degree Requirements Courses Admitted Students Some Recent Alumni Research Overview Quantum Materials Quantum Information Photonics and Nanotechnology Energy Materials Biological Physics Experimental Theoretical Facilities Nanofabrication Clean Room Transmission Electron Microscope Scanning Electron Microscope X-Ray Diffractometer Magnetometer Diversity & Inclusion Close Seminars & Colloquia Directory A to Z Listing Search Department of Physics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Department of Physics Undergraduate Undergraduate Program Description Requirements Courses Typical 4-Year Sequence Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Program Do you seek to understand the laws of nature and develop an analytical and creative mindset? We provide our physics undergraduates with a rigorous core program and opportunities for cuttingedge research. For our alumni, a physics major at Boston College has opened doors to employment in world-leading tech and consulting companies and as faculty who work on forefront research across the globe. Do you seek to understand the laws of nature and develop an analytical and creative mindset? We provide our physics undergraduates with a rigorous core program and opportunities for cuttingedge research. For our alumni, a physics major at Boston College has opened doors to employment in world-leading tech and consulting companies and as faculty who work on forefront research across the globe. The Physics Major is a 4-year program with a strong emphasis on fundamental physics concepts and hands-on experience in state-of-the-art teaching laboratories. Students will learn how analyze complex problems and will gain a strong quantitative background that can be applied in any technical field. Our graduates follow a wide range of career tracks, including graduate studies in physics and engineering, direct entry into the technology sector, and other careers that benefit from sharp analytical and problem solving skills. Our department has recently undergone a dramatic expansion, including the hiring of several new faculty members and development of world-class research programs, which has propelled us into the forefront of research into complex materials. The department strongly encourages undergraduates to become involved in faculty research -- there is no better way to learn physics than by doing physics! We are a relatively small and closely-knit department, with a ratio of undergraduate majors to faculty of about 4:1. Students are welcomed in a friendly environment in which they can easily interact with faculty for help with their coursework, advising, or just an informal chat. Undergraduate Alumni Spotlight Erin Sheridan Dr. Erin Sheridan Dr. Erin Sheridan was an undergraduate student in the BC physics department from 2012-2016. From 2014-2016, she performed research in experimental condensed matter physics with Professor Ken Burch, where she investigated the excitonic behavior of two-dimensional materials. Upon graduation, Erin joined Professor Jeremy Levy’s group at the University of Pittsburgh, where she studied ultrafast nonlinear optics as a National Science Foundation graduate research fellow. She has also studied the philosophy of physics. After obtaining her PhD in 2021, she began working with the Quantum Information Sciences group at the Air Force Research Laboratory as a National Academy of Sciences postdoctoral fellow. Her current research focuses on quantum networking with superconducting, trapped ion and photonic qubits. Read more about Dr. Erin Sheridan Undergraduate Resources Teaching Laboratories Lecture Demonstrations Undergraduate Resource Room Learning Outcomes Learning Outcomes for Physics Majors The Department of Physics curriculum is designed to help our students achieve the following learning outcomes upon graduation: demonstrate a broad understanding of classical and quantum physical principles; understand and articulate current prominent research questions in physics; structure and implement independent inquiry on substantive questions in physics; communicate research results in a scientifically appropriate manner; demonstrate a level of knowledge and research skills level sufficient to compete successfully for admission to graduate programs. The department will assess our majors’ learning outcomes, and modify the curriculum as appropriate, on a yearly basis in order to help students better achieve these goals. Learning Outcomes for Students Taking Physics Core Courses Students completing a Natural Science Core course in the Physics Department will have: expanded their understanding of the principles, body of knowledge, and investigative strategies that comprise physics and its technological applications; developed a scientific literacy that will promote curiosity, respect for the scientific method, and general awareness of the limitations of scientific conclusions; recognized the role of scientific discovery, past, present, and future, in interrelated concerns such as human health, societal well-being, and planetary sustainability; and appreciated the role of physics in defining their relationship with the natural world and their position within the cosmos. Back To Top Back To Top Department of Physics Higgins Hall 335 617-552-3575 physics@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Physics Faculty Resources Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College