Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News Managing Thyroid Cancer Without Surgery January 27, 2022 Active surveillance has emerged as a safe option for some thyroid cancers, illustrating that less can be more in thyroid cancer management. The Virtual World of Cancer Research January 25, 2022 Columbia cancer researchers are developing virtual reality technology to visualize and explore cancer tumors and gain new insights. Barbara Pro, MD, Named Clinical Director of Lymphoma Program January 24, 2022 Barbara Pro, MD, a leader in lymphoma research and care, has been named clinical director of the lymphoma program at Columbia University's Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. To Stop Blood Cancer, Target the Bone January 19, 2022 New Columbia research suggests that targeting neighboring bone cells may be a better strategy than targeting malignant stem cells to treat acute myeloid leukemia. Topic Campus News Inequity in Care: Orthopedics, Cancer, and Beyond January 11, 2022 In the face of daunting disparities in health care, the medical community can take small steps that make a difference, a Columbia orthopedic surgeon writes. Topic Campus News Cancer Center at 50 By Christina Hernandez Sherwood | Portraits by Jörg Meyer December 23, 2021 The National Cancer Act, signed into law Dec. 23, 1971, funded the expansion of cancer research and care at Columbia. Today, with plans for a new clinical building, the future looks bright. Topic Campus News Pathways to a Cure December 17, 2021 Innovation and discovery are at the heart of Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center's mission to reduce the burden of cancer. Learn more in the HICCC's 2021 annual report. Evans Foundation Grant Establishes New Center at Columbia for Myelodysplastic Syndromes December 17, 2021 The new center will build upon the dedicated MDS program at Columbia University, a longstanding program of excellence that has served as a national leader in MDS research. Smarter Radiation Therapy Enhances Personalized Care for Cancer Patients December 6, 2021 The latest advance in radiation therapy—using AI to adjust treatments as needed—is now available for select cancer patients at Columbia University Irving Medical Center/NewYork-Presbyterian. Topic Radiation NYC Has Some of the Nation’s Largest Disparities in Cervical Cancer Rates November 24, 2021 The rate of cervical cancer among women living in neighborhoods with the lowest socioeconomic indices is nearly two times higher than the rate among those who live in areas with the highest indices. Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top