Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Communication and Social Influence Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Communication and Social Influence Major Apply Request More Info Communication and Social Influence Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Communication and Social Influence Become a next-generation communication specialist who brings about positive social change with the Bachelor of Arts in Communication and Social Influence in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. Learn to lead public messaging in cities challenged by the most fundamental issues of modern times, such as criminal justice reform, environmental impact, health and labor concerns, LGBTQ and women’s rights, political segregation, and terrorism. The Communication and Social Influence Major allows you to develop a humanistic and social-scientific approach to effective public communication in urban environments. You will also learn the essentials of social influence and public speaking, including making sound arguments, organizing your ideas, supporting your claims and preparing briefs. Areas of Focus Through the Communication and Social Influence Major degree program, you will gain expertise in one of three areas of focus, each of which is characterized by intercultural communication. The civic engagement focus emphasizes communication of sociopolitical activities and community advocacy. The risk communication focus deals with communication about environment, public health, science, politics and public policy. The conflict focus covers communication for community and individual conflict management and resolution. Minor in Communication and Activism Become an effective, conscientious, civically minded agent of social change capable of communicating across a variety of issues and contexts and within a multicultural and multiethnic society. Acquire in-depth understanding of the theories underpinning social activism and community engagement, as well as the skills necessary to implement these strategies. Students will be able to draw both from our faculty’s subject area expertise, as well as immerse themselves in social movements throughout Philadelphia. Learn more about this minor. Classes & Curriculum The Communication and Social Influence Major can be completed over four years of continuous, full-time study. Among the courses offered in this 124-credit degree program are the following. Argumentation and Advocacy Civil Disobedience Communication and Civic Engagement Rhetoric of Hate and Violence Risk Communication Speechwriting Urban Organizing Students are also required to complete one of four experience courses amounting to three credit hours. Those courses are Internship, Study Away Internship, Directed Research and Practicum. Learn more about courses and requirements for the Communication and Social Influence Major. Related Graduate Degrees Conflict and Communication MS Master of Journalism Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Concentrations You can focus on Communication and Social Influence or you can take one of the following concentrations. International Communication Students in the International Communication Concentration (ICC) acquire a theoretical and practical education in international and intercultural communication and media. A unique opportunity for Klein students, this program allows you to obtain skills and knowledge in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication by reflecting on your own cultural lens. Students participating in the ICC program are enlightened about various perspectives through an internationally and interculturally oriented curriculum. The program is offered on Temple’s domestic campuses, but students can supplement some coursework while studying abroad. View Concentration Details Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Our academic advisors will help you stay on track to graduate and ensure you remain on a clear professional path. Walk-in advising is available in the first two weeks of the semester for students who need assistance with any registration issues. Express advising is available for students throughout the rest of the semester. Advisors answer routine questions in 15-minute sessions. For more in-depth, personalized assistance, students may make appointments. To schedule an appointment or ask a question, contact our advising office. Email: advise@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5273 You can also contact the advising office through TUportal under the Klein College tab. The Klein Advising Office, which serves all Klein majors, is located at the following address. Student Affairs/Advising Annenberg Hall, Room 9 2020 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Important Dates Our academic calendar includes an overview of all relevant upcoming dates. Learn more about academic advising in the Communication and Social Influence Major. Program Contact Contact the Department of Communication and Social Influence in Temple University’s Lew Klein College of Media and Communication. Department of Communication and Social Influence Weiss Hall, Room 216 1701 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Email: CSI@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-7540 Demaris Watford is the department’s office manager. Email: dwatford@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5790 Student Clubs & Organizations Joining a student organization can affect your career and college experience in meaningful ways. Not only will you learn how to work with a team, you’ll also gain access to exciting projects, peer support and valuable networking opportunities. Aperture Photo Agency is Temple’s only student-run photography agency. The group fosters talent through group expeditions, weekly workshops and one-on-one attention. The Templar Yearbook captures life at Temple in snapshots of the past academic year and celebrates each year’s graduating class. The Temple News has been the paper of record for the Temple community for nearly a century. The award-winning student publication, editorially independent of Temple, publishes every week. The Temple University Black Public Relations Society is a professional student organization that aims to create, cultivate and encourage a supportive community for aspiring multicultural public relations professionals at Temple. WRTI broadcasts to more than 339,000 listeners each week. Many Klein College students get internships at this award-winning, listener-supported NPR radio station. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Communication and Social Influence Major students. Study Away Take on new challenges, experiences and viewpoints in an array of academic settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Communication and Social Influence Major’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Dublin, London, Los Angeles, South Africa and more. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs for the Communication and Social Influence Major. Questions Representatives from our Global Opportunities office are available to answer any questions you may have. Email: kleingo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2354 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-CSI-BA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Communication and Social Influence Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info