Learn Abroad. Start Here.  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Learning Abroad Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Learning Abroad Start Here Programs Faculty-Led Programs Exchange Programs Affiliated Programs Student Service Organizations Abroad Scholarships International Education Scholarship External Scholarships Financial Resources and Information Resources Student Resources Diversity & Identity Abroad Faculty and Staff Resources Parent Resources Events & Outreach Learning Abroad 101 Global Guides Policies & Guidelines Health & Safety CISI Insurance Passport for Coogs Application Forms Reimbursement Forms Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Our Staff UH Home Learning Abroad Learn Abroad. Start Here. Begin your journey abroad at our LA101 Workshop Learn about our program options, scholarships and funding opportunities, academic and program eligibility, and how to find the best program for you at our Learning Abroad 101 Workshops. Held virtually and in person, all students must attend an LA101 Workshop before they begin the advising process. Apply to join the Global Guides! Have you gone abroad and want to help other students on their Learning Abroad Journey? Apply to join the Global Guides now until June 17th! Global Guides are ambassadors for Learning Abroad and they mentor fellow students on program opportunities abroad. Picture Yourself Abroad Learning Abroad welcomes all students to pursue a program abroad during their time at the University of Houston. Visit our Diversity & Identity Resources page to learn how you fit into the picture. Follow us on Social Media Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter to keep up to date on events, deadlines, and view student stories! Visit our Programs page for Covid-19 program updates. Plan ahead Spend a semester abroad! Consider a semester abroad! Keep on track with your degree plan and take courses abroad in your major and minor, and even use your financial aid to help get you there. From Business to languages, social sciences to STEM, there are so many courses and opportunities! Work with your advisor about what and where you'd like to study, and attend one of our Learning Abroad 101 workshops, visit the Programs page to see all of your opportunities, and get started today! Learning Abroad Resources Passport for Coogs ViaTRM Traveler Software Program Options Policies & Guidelines Learning Abroad by the numbers: 2019-2020 354Coogs Abroad 47Gilman Scholarship Recipients 39Countries Visited Quick Links Start Here Programs Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Events & Outreach Parent Resources Health and Safety Contact Us Alexa, Dora, Elizabeth, Leah, and Virginia join one of their faculty leaders, Dr. Kia Johnon, on an excursion through Mayan Ruins on their summer 2019 CommD faculty-led program to Belize. Check out our #coogsabroad on Social Media! E.W. Cullen Building, Suite 105 4302 University Dr. Houston, TX 77204-2039 learningabroad@uh.edu (713) 743-9167 Stay on Track with your Learning Abroad Application Process Programs Scholarships Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Events & Outreach Global Guides Passport for Coogs Parent Resources Health & Safety Contact Us ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies