Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences English Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology English Print Open All Close All Master of Arts Program Master of Arts Program The Master of Arts in English degree is intended for students who wish to extend and consolidate their knowledge of the field before moving on to work at the Ph.D. level and for students aiming at careers in secondary education, publishing, or related fields that require advanced skills in critical thinking, research, and writing. Candidates pursuing the M.A. degree will be expected to complete courses granting at least 30 hours of graduate credit. Three of these course credits must be in a theory course (ordinarily thought of as a course primarily concerned with the study of texts in literary and/or cultural theory) from among the Department’s regular offerings, and three must be in the Introduction to Advanced Research course (or its equivalent). Students may devote up to six of the required 30 credits to independent work under the supervision of Department faculty, resulting in one or more longer papers. Students wishing to pursue this option should consult with the Program Director early in their graduate careers. Students must also pass two examinations—a language and a comprehensive examination. The comprehensive exam requires students to demonstrate knowledge about literary periodization and to use close-reading skills. It is three hours in length, is offered in December and May, and must be taken no later than the fall semester of the second year of study. The language exam is offered at the same time as the comprehensive examination and may be taken at any point in the student’s program. A wide range of languages will be accommodated for this requirement, and it may be waived if (1) the candidate supplies an undergraduate transcript showing two courses beyond beginning level in a foreign language with grades of B or above (taken within three years of entering the M.A. program), (2) the candidate successfully completes a 12-week intensive language course administered by the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences at Boston College, or its equivalent, or (3) the candidate has native-level proficiency and completed a university degree using that language. Master of Arts Concentration in Irish Literature and Culture Master of Arts Concentration in Irish Literature and Culture The Master of Arts in Irish Literature and Culture degree offers English Department candidates the opportunity to design an interdisciplinary course of study drawing from a wide range of fields, including literature, Irish language, history, women’s studies, American studies, fine arts, music, and cultural studies. Candidates seeking the degree must fulfill the course requirements of 30 credits within two years. At least 12 of these must be in Irish literature courses in the English Department, an additional three in an Irish Studies course offered by another University department, and at least six in Irish language. Remaining credits are taken as electives. To complete the degree candidates must pass an oral examination focusing on a specific period, genre, or theme they have chosen in consultation with members of the Irish Studies faculty. Students interested in pursuing the concentration in Irish Literature and Culture should register with Marjorie Howes at the beginning of their second year. English faculty offering graduate courses in Irish Studies include Professors Marjorie Howes, Joseph Nugent, and James Smith. In addition, the distinguished visiting scholar holding the Burns Library Chair in Irish Studies will teach graduate courses in the program. For further information about the Irish Studies Program, please see the website at bc.edu/irish. Master of Arts in Teaching Master of Arts in Teaching The Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.) degree is administered through the Lynch School of Education and Human Development in cooperation with the Department of English. It requires admission to both the Lynch School of Education and Human Development and to the Department of English. Course requirements vary depending upon the candidate’s prior teaching experience; however, all master’s programs leading to certification in secondary education include practical experiences in addition to course work. Students seeking certification in Massachusetts are required to pass the Massachusetts Educators Certification Test. For further information on the M.A.T., please refer to Master’s Programs in Secondary Teaching in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development section of the University Catalog or call the Lynch School’s Office of Graduate Admissions at 617-552-4214. Graduate Assistantships and Teaching Fellowships Graduate Assistantships and Teaching Fellowships Students in the first year of the M.A. program are eligible to receive financial aid in the form of tuition remission. Second year students are eligible for Teaching Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships conferring a stipend. Certificate in Digital Humanities Certificate in Digital Humanities In our increasingly digitized world, the question isn’t whether to use digital technology, but how. Institutions of higher education, as well as employers in many other sectors, recognize that digital humanities skills such as text analysis, mapping, and coding have transformative potential. BC’s Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities offers a coordinated curriculum that is feasible for graduate candidates to complete alongside existing degree requirements. The program combines interdisciplinary methodological training with discipline-specific coursework to provide students with training and institutional recognition of their accomplishments in this fast-growing field. A joint effort of the History and English Departments and the Boston College Libraries’ Digital Scholarship Group, the program offers M.A. and Ph.D. candidates the opportunity to diversify their skill sets and produce projects such as digital archives, data visualizations, online exhibits, and scholarly websites. This project-based approach puts a premium on collaboration and interdisciplinary inquiry. In the process, Certificate holders will enhance their employment prospects in both traditional academia as well as in publishing, government, museums, libraries, archives, and other alt-ac fields. Eligibility Candidates wishing to pursue the Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities must first be enrolled in a graduate degree program at Boston College. They will be able to pursue coursework in accordance with their preparation under any of the following disciplines: Classical Studies English History Economics Political Science Philosophy Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology Doctor of Philosophy Program Doctor of Philosophy Program Normally, no more than four candidates will join the doctoral program each year (one additional candidate is sometimes admitted on an Irish Studies fellowship). The small cohorts make a flexible program possible, individually shaped to suit the interests and needs of each candidate. All candidates accepted into the program receive stipends and tuition remission. Stipends are guaranteed for five years as long as the candidate is making satisfactory progress toward completion of requirements for the degree. Course Requirements Four required doctoral seminars are to be taken in consecutive semesters over the first two years of the program. The remainder of the candidate’s program may include other graduate courses in the English Department or related disciplines, small reading groups, or individual tutorials shaped around the candidate’s preparation for examinations. A candidate-organized pedagogy colloquium accompanies the teaching years, and an advanced professionalization colloquium is taken in the third or fourth year. Language Requirement Candidates must demonstrate an ability to read two foreign languages or a working knowledge and application of one foreign language and its literature. The first alternative requires successful performance on two translation examinations in which a short text must be translated adequately (with use of a dictionary) in two hours. The second involves submitting a paper in which knowledge of the foreign language is used to work out a literary question or translating a substantial critical or literary text currently unavailable in English. Commonly, enrollment in language courses or in graduate electives on translation accompanies the completion of the assignment. Examinations Each candidate will direct a course of study toward completion of three examinations—a minor field exam by the end of the second year, a major field exam, and a dissertation prospectus exam. The minor field examination normally runs one and a half hours and may focus on an author, historical period, theoretical field, or genre. The major field examination is broader in scope and consists of a two-hour oral examination usually on a period or genre. The dissertation prospectus exam, one and a half hours long, explores the dissertation topic and a draft of the dissertation prospectus. All examinations are graded according to the university scale for graduate examinations. Prospectus, Dissertation, and Defense After completing the dissertation prospectus exam, the candidate finalizes the prospectus in consultation with his or her dissertation director describing the dissertation topic and including a working bibliography. All dissertation committees will have at least three faculty readers (one of whom may, but need not, be a faculty member from outside BC). Submission of the dissertation will be followed by an oral defense. Candidates are responsible for acquainting themselves with all university requirements, fees, and deadlines pertinent to dissertation submission and graduation. This information can be obtained from the English Department office or from the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Dean’s office. Teaching As part of their program, Ph.D. candidates engage in a carefully organized sequence of teaching experiences. In the second year, candidates spend one semester assisting in a course taught by a faculty member. In the third and fourth years, candidates design and teach courses—First-Year Writing Seminar, Literature Core, a self-designed elective in the candidate’s own field, and another course selected to provide the best range of teaching experience for each individual candidate. Faculty mentoring is a part of every phase of this program. Graduate Colloquium Graduate Colloquium A committee composed of M.A. and Ph.D. candidates organizes and schedules graduate colloquia, at which faculty members, outside speakers, or candidates lead discussions on literary topics. In alternate years, the spring colloquium will be a full-day graduate conference. All graduate candidates and faculty are strongly encouraged to attend. Good Standing Good Standing Candidates for the degree are expected to remain in good standing in accordance with department guidelines set out for the timely completion of the degree. Continued financial support and participation in the program depends on maintaining good standing. English Courses English Faculty English Website Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College