Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services Summer Sessions Students are encouraged to register for summer courses early and pay their bills immediately; this helps reserve a spot in the courses they wish to take. Colleges and departments may cancel course offerings with low course enrollments. Summer bills will be available to view online on April 25. Summer 2022 Fees Summer 2022 Lab Fees A student's summer bill reflects registration for all courses taken during any 2022 Summer session (i.e., First Summer, Second Summer, etc.) Payment for all summer classes is due May 11. This bill includes courses taken during First Summer, Second Summer, Minimester A, B, C, and D. Adding classes or changing the number of credit hours after the initial due date will affect students' bills. Payments for those changes are due immediately. If you registered for a summer class but no longer plan to attend, be sure to drop the course to avoid being billed. Students are responsible for all associated fees for courses they are registered in, regardless of attendance. Payment Methods: Log in to iROAR to pay by: e-check at no additional charge Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express (a non-refundable service fee of 2.85% of your payment will be assessed for all credit card payments) Summer Payment Plan Student Refunds: Refunds from excess financial aid or overpayments are generally processed once a week, beginning on the first day of class. eRefund is the preferred refund method, giving students faster access to funds. Refunds made by check are mailed to the home address. Sign up for eRefund in the 'My Bill' section of iROAR. Home Tuition and Fees Current Term Tuition & Fees Summer Sessions Prior Term Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram