Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Our Faculty Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Linda Fried Linda Fried LF2296_3_Fried_news.jpg Linda Fried Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health and DeLamar Professor of Public Health Practice, Professor Epidemiology and Medicine Senior Vice President, Columbia University Medical Center Office/Address: 722 W. 168th Street, R1408 New York NY 10032 Phone: 212-305-9300 Fax: 212-305-9342 Email: lpfried [at] columbia [dot] edu Biography Topics Education Other Affiliations Honors & Awards Areas of Expertise Select Urban Health Activities Back to Top Biography Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH, Dean of Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health since 2008, is a leader in the fields of epidemiology and geriatric medicine. She additionally serves as the Director of the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center. Trained in cardiovascular and chronic disease epidemiology and geriatrics, she has dedicated her career to the science of healthy aging and creating a health span that matches our increased life expectancy, prevention of frailty, disability and cardiovascular disease, and defining how to transition to a world where greater longevity benefits people of all ages. An internationally renowned scientist, she has led seminal work in defining frailty as a new clinical syndrome and illuminating its causes, and has led major population based studies to determine the causes and consequences of chronic diseases, multimorbidity, loneliness and disability in aging. She is the co-designer and co-founder of Experience Corps, a community-based senior volunteer program that places older volunteers in public elementary schools to support both the academic success of the children and the health of the volunteers, as an evidence-based public health program. Since 2006, Dr. Fried has served as a member of the international "Aging Society Network," to create a roadmap to a successful society of longer lives. She has proposed the concept that it is possible to create a Third Demographic Dividend that enables society and individuals of all ages to experience the benefits of our now-longer lives through a life course approach to prevention to extend health span, and rethinking of society's social infrastructure and development of meaningful roles for older adults. Dr. Fried is the author of over 500 peer reviewed articles. She has been the principal investigator of major longitudinal cohort studies, including the Cardiovascular Health Study, the Women's Health and Aging Studies I and II; and was the recipient of NIH MERIT Award. She has also served as principal investigator of NIH-funded randomized controlled trials, including the GEM trial of Gingko Biloba and the Experience Corps trial. At the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions until 2008, she served as the founding director of the Center on Aging and Health, Director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology and of the Training Programs in the Epidemiology and Biostatistics of Aging and in Geriatric Medicine. She was the founding principal investigator of the Johns Hopkins Older Americans Independence Center and co-principal investigator of the NIA-funded Demography of Aging Center. Dr. Fried was the founding Chair of the Johns Hopkins Department of Medicine Task Force on the Academic Careers of Women in Medicine (1989-1995) and chaired the Johns Hopkins University President's Task Force on the Status of Women in Academic Careers, 1998-2003. Dr. Fried is an elected member of the US National Academy of Medicine (since 2000), and currently serves as a re-elected member of its Executive Council. She is also Co-Chair of the NAM Global Commission to create a Global Roadmap for Healthy Longevity. Elected to the Association of American Physicians in 2000, she served as its President from 2016-17. She was a member of the Council of the National Institute on Aging, served from 2006-2016 as a member of the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Aging and currently serves on its Council on Longevity, was co-chair of WEF's Council on Human Enhancement (2016-2018), and is an elected member of the Council on Foreign Relations. In 2014, she was named as among the top 1 percent "most influential scientific minds of the past decade" by Thomson-Reuters, and in 2012, by the New York Times, as "one of 15 world leaders in science". She is the recipient of numerous honors and awards, most recently the 2016 French INSERM International Prize in Medical Research, the 2018 Crain's Notable Women in Health Care and 2020 Cr Topics Aging Public Health Education Education MPH, 1984, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health MD, 1979, Rush Medical College BA, 1970, University of Wisconsin Other Affiliations Aging Society Research Network National Academy of Medicine executive Council National Academy of Medicine co-Chair of Commission to Create a Global Roadmap for Healthy Longevity Honors & Awards Alma Dea Morani Renaissance Woman Award, Women in Medicine Legacy Foundation, 2019 Crains’ Notables in Health Care 2020; Crain’s Notable Women in Health Care, 2018 INSERM International Prize in Medical Research, French National Institute of Health and Medical Research, 2016 Longevity Prize, Fondation IPSEN, 2012 Silver Scholar Award, American Federation for Aging Research, 2012 Areas of Expertise Aging and Elderly, Alzheimer's Disease, Gerontology, Healthy Aging and Longevity, Public Health Education Select Urban Health Activities Age-Friendly New York City Commission: Age-Friendly New York City Commission: To address a growing older population in NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg and then Mayor DeBlasio convened leaders from the public and private sectors to serve on the commission charged with finding ways to help New Yorkers live healthy, vibrant lives as they age. Back to Top Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers