Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Affairs Menu Main Nav Student Affairs Contact Back Back Close About Overview Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Involuntary Leave of Absence Policy Communication Updates Related Links Mission and Ministry Student Services Departments & Programs Overview BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Center for Student Wellness Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women's Center Related Links Assessment Program Eagle Path Cross Currents Seminars Divisional Committees Mission and Ministry Student Services How Can We Help You? Events Overview Weeks of Welcome 2021 Community Webinar FAQs Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Events Home Events Student Affairs 15 affiliated departments provide a wide array of co-curricular programs and services that promote student learning, health and wellness, leadership development, and community engagement. View some of our upcoming events and programs below. Download the BC Weeks of Welcome Calendar of Events Download the Graduate Students BC WoW Calendar of Events Upcoming Events Main Office of Student Involvement Counseling Services Health Promotion Office of Student Outreach and Support Services Robsham Theater Women's Center Student Affairs Signature Events Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Student Affairs Open House This annual event provides students with the opportunity to learn about all the resources Student Affairs has to offer. Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Heritage Month Celebrations The BAIC collaborates with student organizations and academic and student affairs departments to celebrate the contributions of AHANA communities. Women's Center Love Your Body Week Love Your Body Week (LYBW) is a week of programming dedicated to promoting healthy body image on the Boston College campus. Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Weeks of Welcome Weeks of Welcome aims to connect first-year students to the people, offices, and opportunities on campus before the beginning of classes. Office of Student Involvement Student Involvement Fair The Student Involvement Fair is an opportunity for students to learn about all the campus organizations they can get involved in. Office of Health Promotion Healthapalooza Healthapalooza provides students with the opportunity to learn about campus health resources through interactive activities. Career Center Career and Internship Fairs The Career Center hosts career and internship fairs to connect Boston College students with employers of top organizations. Office of Residential Life Off-Campus Housing Taste of Off-Campus Off-Campus Housing hosts the Taste of Off-Campus featuring neighborhood restaurants including free samples and giveaways. Office of Student Involvement Christmas Tree Lighting An annual tradition of lighting the Christmas Tree on O'Neill Plaza- this event features hot chocolate, giveaways, performances, and photos with Santa! Women's Center Care Week The Women's Center holds Concerned About Rape Education (CARE) Week during the spring semester. Programming is focused on raising awareness about sexual assault and intimate partner violence on and off campus. Career Center Endeavor Endeavor is a free three-day career exploration program during Winter Break for sophomores and juniors. Together with alumni, career coaches, and peer leaders, students will discover the power of a liberal arts degree. Main Main Back To Top Back To Top Division of Student Affairs Maloney Hall, 4th Floor 617-552-8600 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College