Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Hoosier Life Recreational Sports Recreational Sports How about some friendly competition? Whether you’re a team player or you prefer to exercise alone, you can find plenty of ways to get in touch with your athletic side at IU—without ever trying out for a team. You have to see the sports and rec facilities to believe them As an IU student, you have access to state-of-the-art fitness, athletic, and recreation facilities. The Student Recreational and Sports Center (SRSC) and Intramural Center offer everything you could want, whether you're a committed athlete or a casual fitness enthusiast. You can schedule court time for a game of pickup basketball. Check out free equipment and play some tennis. Swim laps at one of the many indoor and outdoor pools. Drop into any of the 80+ group exercise classes offered each week. Or just work out using the latest strength training and cardio equipment.Learn more about Recreational Sports at IU Try club sports on for size Club sports are a lot like traditional team sports. You have organized practices, and you play other schools, but you don’t have to try out for an official Indiana University team. Even better, anyone can sign up to play, regardless of experience level! IU has almost 40 club sports on its roster, including everything from aikido to water polo.Find the right club sport for you Explore intramural sports If you want to compete, but don’t want to travel to other campuses, intramural sports could be just the thing. IU has an ever-changing menu of intramural sport leagues and tournaments. Basketball and soccer are perennial favorites. But sports as diverse as futsal (indoor soccer) and dodgeball are frequently available. Leagues are split by experience level, but at the end of the day, the goal is just to have fun!Learn more about intramural sports Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University