Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Graduate Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition Graduate Specializations Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition Bilingual Education Specialization Program English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Gifted & Talented Specialization Learning Therapy Specialization Literacy Studies Mathematics Specialization Special Education Specialization STEM Specialization Urban Education Specialization Ph.D. Admission Course Descriptions ☰ STEM Specialization SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Teacher Education Graduate Specializations STEM Apply Now Request Information Course Descriptions Students in the STEM Specialization will take a series of four graduate courses focusing on integrated STEM Education. These courses can be used as a specialization within a Master in Education (M.Ed.) degree, or can be taken standalone as a professional development sequence. EDU 6349: The Science of Learning and STEM EDU 6350: Designing and Making EDU 6383: Coding for Teachers EDU 6351: Community-Centered STEM Integration EDU 6349. The Science of Learning and STEM (offered in Fall) This course introduces students to the discipline of the learning sciences and to designing integrated STEM learning environments. The course is taught through face-to-face discussions, hands-on investigations, and field trips to traditional and nontraditional sites for STEM teaching and learning in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Students in this course complete several projects, including conducting and analyzing problem-solving interviews, leading tinkering sessions where students explore emerging technologies to teach STEM content, and writing integrated STEM lesson plans. Topics covered in this course include: the development of expertise in STEM, formal and informal settings for STEM learning, effective approaches to STEM instruction, maker-based learning in STEM, and integrating new learning technologies into STEM classes. EDU 6350. Designing and Making in STEM Education (offered in Spring) This course prepares students to develop classroom activities connected to STEM that promote designing and making with new and old technologies. The course is taught through a series of class discussions, design experiences in the Simmons Design Lab and Deason Innovation Gym, and field trips to community sites engaged in traditional and nontraditional activities focused on designing and making. Students enrolled in the course will explore the link between designing and making and K-12 STEM learning, investigate the attributes of a successful design challenge, and outline the components of school-based makerspaces that make them innovative venues for K-12 STEM learning. Across the semester, students will complete three design challenges. Additionally, students will draft a grant proposal for the materials necessary to implement an integrated STEM project focused on designing and making with an emerging technology. EDU 6383. Coding for Teachers This course introduces students to the fundamental coding and technology skills needed to design computational computing assignments for STEM education. This course is taught through a series of hands-on tutorials and programming assignments designed to build skills and confidence in coding. Students enrolled in this course explore common approaches to coding in K-12 education, including block programming, object oriented scripting, and app development. Across the semester, students learn to solve problems with code using these approaches. The course culminates with an instructional design project where students design a problem-based coding assignment for a STEM lesson and create sample code to demonstrate how a student might solve a problem with computational computing. EDU 6351. Community-Centered STEM Integration (Offered in Spring; This is the final course in the four-course sequence.) This course is taught in a practicum style and involves deep engagement in extended investigations in STEM fields. Students in this course will choose a STEM topic for their “capstone project” for the STEM specialization sequence. This topic must relate to something that students could experience in the DFW community – such as a project involving water quality at White Rock Lake, a project involving mathematical considerations in DFW architecture or urban planning, or a project involving engineering principles behind alternative energy sources at the Dallas Arboretum. The project will involve the student in this course first engaging with the topic on their own, and then they will explore how they could use their topic as a vehicle for STEM integration and effective STEM instruction in their own K-12 classroom. Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition and Scholarships Bilingual Education English as a Second Language (ESL) Gifted and Talented Learning Therapy Literacy Studies Mathematics Special Education STEM Urban Education Request Information Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Department of Teaching & Learning Contact Us 214-768-2346 teacher@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Harold Clark Simmons Hall 6401 Airline Rd., Suite 301 Dallas, TX 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter