COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Education - Mathematics / Science (Middle), Major MajorEducation - Mathematics / Science (Middle) All Programs College of Applied Studies School of Education Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts in Education (BAED)—mathematics / science (Middle)—focuses on the academic disciplines of mathematics, the natural sciences and effective teaching. Graduates are well prepared for careers as certified teachers in grades 5-8. The program combines classroom learning and real-world teaching experience in Kansas’ largest school district. Learn how Middle Level Math / Science Education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Applied Studies, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. In addition, you must complete your general education courses and a teacher education application to be admitted into the professional program. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Scholarship assists future math and science educators Because of the generous gift of one family, the Doris and Ralph Klose Scholarship is available for students majoring in math or science education at WSU. This scholarship covers the average cost of tuition, books, and fees during the junior and senior year. Curriculum The four-year mathematics / science program starts with two years of general education followed by two years of teacher education. The curriculum was developed in collaboration by university faculty and P-12 practitioners and includes teaching internships. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor’s degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and prepares you to pursue an advanced education degree. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Education - Early Childhood Unified Education - Elementary Psychology Social Work Special Music Education 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©