By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Plan Your Visit Tips More from this Section Food & Lodging Parking Syracuse, NY Visitor Tips Make the most of your visit to the heart of New York State! Whether you're visiting Syracuse University for just a few hours or a whole weekend, we have plenty of things to do, places to stay, and food to enjoy. Here are our tips to make your experience more memorable. Take a Campus Tour No Matter Why You’re Visiting One of the best ways to get a feel for Syracuse University is a campus tour, offered by the Office of Admissions. Choose from weekday visits, Syracuse Saturdays, and Orange Previews. While summer visits offer beautiful warm weather and plenty to do, we recommend visiting campus when classes are in session. You’ll get a better feel for the atmosphere during the fall (August-December) or spring (January-May) semesters, when campus is filled with students, staff, and faculty willing to answer any questions you may have. Plan Ahead If you’re visiting a Syracuse student, be sure to bring a valid photo ID to present at the residence hall. If you’re staying overnight in on-campus housing, you must be registered in advance with the Office of Residence Life and acquire a guest pass and parking pass . Hop on a Bus If you don't have access to a car on campus, don't worry! From the College Place bus stop, hop on the Connective Corridor bus and stop at Armory Square for some food, shopping, and entertainment. Or you can catch a bus to Destiny USA , one of the largest shopping malls in the United States. Check the Weather We experience four distinct seasons in Syracuse, NY, all of which give campus a new look and feel. Plan ahead for the weather and be prepared with layers when you visit. Syracuse knows how to handle winter weather and campus closings are rare. For visits in January, February, and March, be prepared for snow and use caution during storms. Snap a Selfie Our campus features a variety of custom Syracuse University Snapchat geofilters. So snap a quick selfie on the Quad and show your #OrangePride ! Sit on the Kissing Bench But DO NOT sit on it alone! Syracuse tradition states that if a couple shares a kiss while sitting on this bench, they will eventually get married. However, sitting on the bench by yourself sentences you to a lonely future! Choose your bench-sitting partner wisely. See a Game in the Dome Are you a huge basketball fan? How about football? Cheer on one of Syracuse University's Division 1 teams as they play in the ACC and bring home a win for the Orange! Buy tickets in advance . Related Pages Syracuse Convention & Visitors Bureau Explore all that the City of Syracuse has to offer, including places to stay and eat, and plenty of things to do. Admissions Events The Office of Admissions welcomes visitors throughout the year with weekday campus visits, Syracuse Saturdays, and Orange Previews. Social Media Directory Connect with the Syracuse University community across campus and around the world! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy