Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Sociology PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Sociology PhD Apply Request More Info Sociology PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Sociology PhD Build upon your foundation in sociological theory and research with a Doctor of Philosophy in Sociology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This 52-credit PhD program provides advanced training in sociological theory, statistics and research methods in a variety of sociology subfields. Students are prepared for research and teaching in academia and for advanced work in a variety of professional settings. The main areas of doctoral research are gender and sexuality; globalization; immigration; medical sociology; race and ethnicity; and urban sociology. Sociology PhD students and faculty are passionate about social change. You will be a part of a community that is concerned with topics that include how identities influence the production and consumption of popular culture; how race and social status are reproduced and challenged in our educational system; how science influences perceptions of sexual identity; unionization as a global phenomenon; and why trust matters in social relationships. You will also examine the intersection of people and space with political and economic structures, and the complexities of emotions and affect for relationships in the social world. As part of an R1 research institution, the Sociology Department is committed to pushing boundaries in research, supporting its scholars in developing actionable solutions and creating impactful change. Learn more about current Sociology faculty and their areas of expertise. Program Format & Curriculum Students have seven years to complete their degree. Full-time study is preferred, but part-time enrollment can be considered on a case-by-case basis. The Sociology PhD curriculum consists of core courses, electives, a preliminary examination and personal research which culminates in a written dissertation and oral defense. Students must complete the following core courses. Classical Social Theory Contemporary Sociological Theory Graduate Data Analysis Inferential and Multivariate Statistics Logic of Inquiry Qualitative Methods Qualitative Data Analysis Learn more about the Sociology PhD curriculum requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Applied Sociology PSM Criminal Justice PhD Geography and Urban Studies PhD Political Science PhD Sociology MA Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Sociology PhD, contact the following staff member. Jessica Brennan is an administrator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Sociology Department. Josh Klugman is the graduate chair of the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-1452 Email: klugman@temple.edu Kimberly Goyette is the chair of the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-0134 Email: kgoyette@temple.edu Pamela Smallwood is a coordinator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-7750 Email: pamela.smallwood@temple.edu Catherine Staples is a coordinator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-1494 Email: cstaples@temple.edu Dual Degree Programs Dual degree programs allow students interested in specializing in more than one area of sociology to pursue two graduate degrees. The following dual degree programs are available to graduate students in the Sociology master's and doctoral degree programs. Urban Bioethics MA and Sociology MA Urban Bioethics MA and Sociology PhD Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Sociology PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The Sociology Graduate Student Association represents and advocates for the collective interests of sociology graduate students, working to optimize the environment in which students develop professionally and personally. The association provides professional development workshops, social opportunities and graduate student advocacy. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SOC-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Sociology PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info