Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. African American Cultural & Resource Center AACRC right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Our Staff Programs right arrow down arrow Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka right arrow down arrow Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Student Groups right arrow down arrow Brother 2 Brother Habari Gani Ambassadors Sisters Impacting Sisters (S.I.S.) The Center right arrow down arrow Reserve the AACRC AACRC Reservation Policies Home » Campus Life » AACRC » Programs » Transitions Set Navigation title in component Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Transitions Transitions Program Transitions is a program designed to enhance the first-year experience for incoming Black students by providing leadership training, workshops, peer mentoring, and other social and academic activities to ensure that all participants are prepared for college and beyond. In addition, accepted students will have the opportunity to move in early to enable them to attend the required early arrival program. Graduates of the program have gone on to become elected members of Student Government and have also obtained membership and been leaders in a myriad of organizations from fraternities and sororities to Resident Assistants (RAs), Student Orientation Leaders (SOLs), and BASE Mentors...all while maintaining a standard of excellence in the classroom. Transitions is the premier program of the AACRC. Participation in it will undoubtedly help you begin a successful academic career here at the University of Cincinnati. Apply online today! Program Objectives Retain and matriculate Black students  Receive guidance through mentorship  Nurture and develop cultural foundations  Cultivate leadership skills  Provide community service opportunities  Develop an affinity for UC  Create a culture of belonging through the AACRC  Engage in community service opportunities to empower leaders to give back to their community Provide community through the Abercrumbie Living Learning Community    Transitions Application Deadline for Students interested in the Dr. P Eric Abercrumbie Living-Learning Community 5/1/2022 * Students interested in the ALLC must apply for Transitions and the ALLC on the Housing Application by May 1st. Final Transitions Application Deadline 6/24/2022 11:59 pm Early Move-in Mid-August. Final date TBD. Early Arrival Program 8/14/2022 - 8/17/2022 Weekly Meetings Each Wednesday, 4:45 PM - 5:45 PM during the Fall and Spring Semesters. African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top