Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Opportunities Travel Current: Educational Enrichment Travel Grants Educational Enrichment Travel Grants About Educational Enrichment Travel Grants (EETGs) EETGs are designed to fund out of the classroom, life-changing summer break experiences that take place away from Clemson and the Upstate of South Carolina. These experiences may be internships (unpaid), research, public service projects, or other significant undertakings that are consistent with a student’s educational or career goals. Applications for international experiences are especially welcome. Educational Enrichment Travel Grants (EETGs) are highly competitive. Awards are based on both the nature and significance of the proposed experience and on the strength of the student's application and supporting materials. Certain experiences are not eligible for funding. These are experiences that are credit-bearing, unless there is a significant research or service component; or experiences that the student cannot adequately justify as consistent with academic or career aspirations. The Honors College does not fund faculty-led programs. Apply Before March 1, 2022! Program Details The proposed experience should take place for one month (minimum 4 weeks) during summer break. The enrichment experience must take place away from Clemson University campus and applications for overseas experiences are especially encouraged. Funding for a summer experience is $3,000 or less, with exceptions in well-justified cases. Awards may support travel, subsistence and other needs as deemed legitimate by the review committee. Non-perishable items become property of the Honors College. Funds from EETG's must be used for the specific purposes detailed in the student's application. They may not be used for any other purpose, project, or experience without the express and prior approval of the Honors College. Applicants should not request funds in conjunction with Departmental Honors requirements or other undergraduate research projects (e.g., Cooperative Education, coursework taken at Clemson University's overseas centers). EETG funds cannot be used for tuition. Applicants must disclose financial support from other sources. Program Eligibility Applicants must be: Members of the Honors College Have at least a 3.5 cumulative GPA at the time of application In general, must have at least one full academic year remaining (after completing the proposed enrichment experience) before completing their undergraduate degree Students may receive more than one award during their undergraduate Honors education. Application Process Applications open December 1 on the ApplyWeb portal. ALL application materials are due no later than 11:59 p.m. on March 1. A letter of support from a Clemson faculty or staff member is due no later than March 8. Students must ask a Clemson faculty or staff member for a letter of support, and once their application is received, an email will be automatically generated to their letter writer. The endorsement letter should address the substance of the proposed experience and address the selection criteria. Students are responsible for asking for the letter and assuring it is submitted by March 8, through ApplyWeb. Students can check their Application Status portal any time after they have created an account. Every effort will be made to notify students of the results by April 1. Selection criteria to assist in letters of support Impact. Does the application make a convincing case that the experience will have a positive, life-changing effect on the student? Clarity. Are the learning objectives explained in a clear and understandable manner? Feasibility. Are the learning objectives accomplishable within the time frame of the award? Fitness. Does the applicant have the intellectual capability, maturity, and motivation to ensure a successful and rewarding experience? Adaptability. Can the student easily adjust to a different cultural environment? What Makes an Application More Competitive? Does the student explain how the experience will be educationally enriching? Does the proposal show a well-considered pathway to enhancement of the student’s education? Is the proposal designed to enhance the student’s career goals? Would this experience be considered distinctive or prestigious in student’s field of study? How competitive is the process to be afforded the summer placement? Does the student’s proposal show that a significant amount of time was spent completing it? Does the proposal show promise for contributing to a strong and potentially successful application for an extramural fellowship? Such fellowships include, but are not limited to, the Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, Mitchell, Goldwater, and Udall scholarships, and Fulbright Grants. Access the Application Follow these steps to access the application: Create an ApplyWeb Account. Please visit the Honors College Application Menu page to create your account (this creates an ApplyWeb user ID and Password – this is not your Clemson ID and password). After creating your ApplyWeb ID and Password, under ‘Ready To Apply?’ choose the link to the Educational Enrichment Travel Grant Application. Fill it out and submit it. For technical problems with the application or if you forget your username/password, contact our technical support. They are normally very quick to respond. For questions on Educational Enrichment Travel Grants, email eetg@clemson.edu or call 864-656-9431. Important Dates and Final Details Important Travel Warning EETG applicants must determine whether the country to which they plan to travel is subject to a U.S. Department of State Travel Warning. (keep this link) If so, students must submit a “Request to Allow Travel to Countries Subject to Travel or Travel Health Warnings” (Request) to obtain a waiver. The waiver must be obtained before funds for an EETG can be disbursed to the student. This process can take 3 or more months, so EETG applicants should begin the Request process as early as possible. Important to Register In order to receive any funds from the Honors College, you must register with Clemson University Tiger Pay. It is permissible to register in advance of award notification, as this system applies to many things with regard to Clemson funding. Register with TigerPay. Important Dates December 1: EETG applications open March 1: EETG application closes March 8: Faculty endorsement due - email will be generated to the person indicated, once student application is received April 1: Every effort will be made to notify students regarding their award decision August 20: Deadline to upload receipts and other items from EETG experience September / October: EETG Poster Forum in the Honors Center – to be communicated to students After Your Application is Approved Applicants must upload their program/internship/research experience acceptance or offer letter (or email) with their application on ApplyWeb. For students who need to commit or make a deposit to an experience before April 1, email eetg@clemson.edu to explain. Every effort will be made to provide you with a decision by your deadline. Students who will not have received acceptance regarding their summer experience by the March 1 EETG deadline, may apply prospectively. In such cases, applications should be as specific as possible. If the award is granted, students must add their program acceptance document into the ApplyWeb account before funds can be disbursed. Poster Presentation Upon completion of the experience, students will make a public poster presentation about their experience. Students will receive a post experience information email telling them to go back to their ApplyWeb account in order to upload required documents. The poster should be designed in PowerPoint. The finished size of the poster should be 35.5 x 46.5. Size can be set under “Design,” and then “Page Setup” in PowerPoint. Creativity is encouraged! Students should showcase their experience, funded by the EETG – the research; the class; the internship location – as well as what else was experienced such as the landscape, culture or city sites. The poster should entice viewers to want to know more about the experience. The poster should not be cluttered, and photos are encouraged. Any font can be used but Arial is recommended, as it is easy to read. Four-point font is easily readable when printed full-size. Posters should have a title and the student’s name. They should acknowledge the Educational Enrichment Travel Grant. (Example – The Clemson University Honors College is gratefully acknowledged for supporting this experience through an Educational Enrichment Travel Grant.) Other funding or support can also be acknowledged. Printing the Poster Posters need to be printed at CCIT: See Printing and Plotting information here. Receipts for the printing can be uploaded where the other EETG receipts were uploaded. Mounting Your Poster The date of the poster forum will be emailed to students. On the date of the forum, students will bring their paper poster and use provided clips and foam boards to display them. Students will take their posters with them at the end of the forum. Final Advice Applicants are strongly advised to consult with faculty members and others for assistance in identifying possible enrichment experiences and in preparing the application. See "In Their Own Words" in the accordion below. Upon completion of the experience, students will receive a post experience email reminder to log in to their ApplyWeb account in order to submit a summary of their experience as well as two photos. Each EETG recipient will receive an email about their participation in an EETG poster forum in the fall following their EETG summer experience. In Their Own Words Educational Enrichment Travel Grants offer a wide range of possiblities for broadening your educational experience. Read below what some students said about their experience with their travel grant, and what it meant to them. Devante Horne, NTU’s Summer Research Internship Program Devante, an Engineering Major, spent eight weeks in Singapore conducting laboratory research in the Materials Science and Engineering department at Nanyang Technological University, in the NTU’s Summer Research Internship Program. ”As a part of the NTU School of Materials Science and Engineering, I conducted research in the laboratory of Dr. Terry Steele. My project was entitled: “ The Effects of Industrially Processed PLGA Thin Films on Drug Delivery and Material Properties.” This was a great experience for me in multiple ways. My career goal is to use my engineering degree to work in industry. As well as allowing me the opportunity to solidify several laboratory techniques, this project effectively gave me some scaled-down industry experience that will make me an asset in the future. I made significant contributions to this project through the production of all samples and commencement of the drug release study, which my mentor will continue while I am away. With the support of Dr. Steele, I plan to present my project at the 2014 BiomedicalHorne riding elephant Engineering Society Annual Meeting this fall in San Antonio, Texas. This will be a great networking opportunity for me as I begin applying for PhD programs. I have matured substantially from this experience: both academically and socially. I can attribute this development to the Clemson University Honors College for providing me the funds, allowing me the opportunity to study abroad. This summer I was immersed in a true melting pot of culture, conducted meaningful research, and explored nearby countries…. It was a cultural immersion that I would never have imagined. Through this life-changing experience I have grown into a much more mature and competent researcher and traveler. From this day forward I will have a thirst for opportunities for such development.” Morgan Daughtridge, Surf Outreach in Africa Morgan, an Engineering major, went to Muizenburg, South Africa and volunteered with “Surf Outreach.” This program works with children in an afterschool curriculum that uses surfing to teach children life skills. Morgan writes, “I knew this experience was going to be life changing. I told myself it would be amazing. I was beyond excited for what I would have the opportunity to do. But nothing prepared me for what would actually happen. My first solo trip out of the country led me to South Africa and took all my emotions of excitement, fear, anxiety, wonder and in a maelstrom of events churned out new emotions of confidence, experience, and passion. I now have dreams and passions for things I didn’t even know existed. I dare to do things I would have previously never even considered; all because of the generosity of the Clemson University Honors College. I traveled to Muizenburg (about 40 minutes outside of Capetown) to teach surfing to underprivileged kids from the local township of Capricorn. This trip was ultimately inspired by a desire to help others and see a land abroad, but a large part of it came to be about fear and learning to conquer it. As I faced fears one by one I grew in myself a new boldness that has led me to consider my future very differently than before. I had always felt independent before, but being fully on your own, with not even cell service to call for help was a uniquely liberating experience. Prior to going to South Africa I had never surfed; I ended up becoming a surf instructor. I, who had not even summoned the courage to watch Jaws, went shark cage diving… If I can go to South Africa, make foreign friends, teach a program to kids whose primary language is not English, survive a dangerous environment and still be able to laugh and love every minute of it, then I now know there is nothing I cannot do. My dreams do not have to be limited to my state, or even my country. This is why since coming back, not only have I already planned other future trips including one to work on an organic farm in Greece and one to volunteer at the 2016 Olympics and I have added a minor in Non Profit Leadership. I want to combine international nonprofit work with agriculture and engineering in my future career. I’m not sure exactly how yet, but after this experience I have no doubt that I will find a way and I will continue to keep traveling, exploring, searching, and growing, and helping how I can along the way, until I find a way to make my impact. So thank you so much for this awesome experience!” Benjamin Bodek, Conservation in the Amazon Rainforest Benjamin, a Mathematics major (with a concentration in biology), spent 6 weeks in the Peruvian Amazon Rainforest learning biology and conservation. He lived in the Taricaya Ecological Reserve at a small lodge nestled in the heart of the Amazon on the Madre de Dios River. Taricaya is a protected area of the rainforest where many ecology and animal studies are performed. Taricaya is also home to Peru’s only animal rescue center, where animals hurt by hunters or kept illegally as pets are rehabilitated to be released into the wild. During his time at Taricaya he was not only able to take part in ecological research and animal care and rehabilitation, but gained an invaluable cultural experience which helped him grow both as a person and a world citizen. “Much of my time at Taricaya was spent taking care of the animals in the animal rescue center. The center has a large variety of rainforest species including a puma, jaguar, parrots, tapirs, and many species of monkeys. Taking care of these animals was difficult and time consuming work…The work was tough, but it was very rewarding to see the immediate effects of my work. By working so closely with animals you gain a real appreciation of the extraordinary diversity and complexity of life in the Amazon. I was also able to participate in various field studies while at Taricaya. Taricaya has many ongoing studies led by experts in Amazon ecology….Another study I contributed to was a bat study…. During my time at Taricaya a possibly new species of bat was found, as well as the very rare vampire bat, the largest known bat species. …Through all of these studies I was able to greatly increase my experience in biological research. They provided very hands on lessons in what it takes to plan and conduct a valuable and successful field study and showed me the real world applications of the information taught in biology classes. Another very valuable facet of my time in Peru was the cultural experience I gained….From living in close quarters with people from so many different places I was able to learn a lot about different countries and cultures. During my trip I also had the opportunity to take a week off to travel to the Peruvian Andes and see Machu Picchu. … Seeing a third world country and experiencing what this means is so much more different and valuable than reading or hearing about it. Overall, my experience in Peru was an incredible learning experience, one which I would not have been able to get in any classroom. It opened my eyes to different cultures as well as increasing my knowledge of field studies and biology.” Medah Vyavahare: Educational Outreach in Pune, India Medah Vyavahare, an Engineering major, traveled to Pune, India. While there she volunteered with a nonprofit organization, Ashraya Initiative for Children to help alleviate the poverty in the slums in which they operate. This programs uses education as a means to help children begin to remove, and move beyond, the stigma of poverty. “As part of my involvement with Ashraya Initiative for Children in Pune, India, I worked with their Educational Outreach program that is involved with the Waghri and Sikligar slums. The center seeks to make a quality education accessible to the children of these communities, while also focusing on community outreach initiatives that help empower the locals and help them use skill-based learning to find work outside of their immediate community and thus improve the quality of their lives. I interviewed many parents and students who participate in tuition center Ashraya, asking them about the changes they have seen in the community since the start of the program, their involvement, and what they feel they have gained or would like to gain from it. Sushila... gave one of the most gratifying responses, "Before the center, people had no sense of themselves. Now we want to become better...we live better and we have a chance to learn new things." Despite a number of challenges, the center has really made a positive change in the community as a whole, and it was amazing to be part of the driving force behind this change. In working with the Educational Outreach tuition center with Ashraya, I took charge of creating a spoken English class for the teachers called "Chai Chats." Ashraya is currently transitioning to a completely English-based curriculum, and many of the teachers are young women hailing from the same community as the children they teach. Their limited exposure to English and restricted access to education about the subject made this transition difficult. The teachers had a strong understanding of English from interacting with the many foreign volunteers, but they lacked the confidence to form sentences and speak on their own. I designed and taught a course that focused heavily on sentence formation and basic grammar aimed at giving the teachers the tools they needed to speak effectively and successfully teach their students. The teachers grew immensely throughout the course, and I found them to be exceedingly willing and excited to learn. Their enthusiasm to learn only bolstered my desire to teach them, and I developed close relationships with each and every one of them. I know that they were able to benefit from the instruction, and the program will continue with new volunteers picking up my syllabus. To know that I at least gave momentum to this program is incredibly rewarding, and was one of my favorite things about volunteering with Ashraya." Find Out More For more information about the Educational Enrichment Travel Grants program, contact us at: 511D Fort Hill Street 80 Cribb Hall Clemson, SC 29634 Phone: 864-656-4762 Fax: 864-656-1472 Email eetg@clemson.edu with program or application questions. Educational Enrichment Travel Grants About EETGs Program Details Program Eligibility Application Process Letters of Support What Makes an Application More Competitive? Access the Application Important Dates and Final Details Important Travel Warning TigerPay Registration Important Dates After Your Application is Approved Poster Presentation Printing the Poster Mounting Your Poster Final Advice In Their Own Words Devante Horne Morgan Daughtridge Benjamin Bodek Medah Vyavahare Find Out More Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson