Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Getting out of credit card debt March 14, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Here are some strategies to help you reach the finish line faster. Your main strategies should be the avalanche method and the snowball method. First, pay off the smallest balances first. Keep your goals within reach and start small so you can work your way up. This is called the “snowball method.” Second, prioritize paying off the highest interest cards. This is called the “avalanche method.” Third, restructure your debt. Fourth, transfer balances to a 0% interest card. Fifth, consolidate into personal loan. Lastly, talk to or work with a credit counselor. Sticking to these strategies will help you pay off your credit card debt sooner. Here are some additional tips to keep in mind throughout the process: Always meet minimum payments and make your payments on time Call the company if you’re going to miss a payment Take on a side gig for extra income Avoid new credit card debt Source: www.napkinfinance.com Related Stories Summer financial aid and registration May 31, 2022 Information about summer financial aid and registration. Should you get a summer job? May 24, 2022 This is an article about whether or not you should get a summer job. Tips for traveling on a budget May 17, 2022 A few tips for traveling on a budget. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top