Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Science Teaching (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Unlock the puzzles of science with bright young minds by majoring in science teaching. We offer the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in science teaching. The Bachelor of Arts prepares you to teach the biological sciences, chemistry and earth sciences to students in grades 9-12. With this program’s dual-major Bachelor of Arts option, you can earn a dual major in science teaching and your content area in four years. The Bachelor of Science program prepares you to teach the biological sciences, earth sciences or physical sciences in grades 9-12. Both programs provide early and diversified field experiences that will help you sharpen your skills, and you’ll learn from top-level faculty who are recognized for their excellence in teaching. FAST FACTS We offer both a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science degree in science teaching. Our program is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP), formerly NCATE, and the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA). Our students exceed 100 hours of field-based experience prior to beginning student teaching. Our 72-day student teaching internship exceeds the state's certification requirements for student teaching by 12 days. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Field experiences and clinical practice allow you to apply knowledge, skills and dispositions in many settings, and you can work with students from different ethnic, racial, gender and socioeconomic groups. These early and ongoing school-based opportunities allow you to observe, assist, tutor, instruct or conduct applied research. These experiences extend the South Carolina Assisting, Developing and Evaluating Professional Teaching performance standards into practice in school settings. Biological Sciences Teaching Area: Available to students in both the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science programs. Students will typically teach biology, but depending on the school offerings, you may also be able to teach elective life science classes. Bachelor of Arts options Chemistry Teaching Area: Students who choose this area will typically teach physical science or chemistry. Physics Teaching Area: Students who choose this area will typically teach physical science or physics. Double Major: Choosing to double major in science teaching and one of our focus areas — biological sciences, chemistry or physics — will prepare you to teach science on the secondary school level and pursue graduate studies in any of the life science areas. Curriculum Teaching Area: Biological Sciences, B.A. Teaching Area: Chemistry, B.A. Teaching Area: Physics, B.A. Teaching Area: Biological Sciences, B.S. Popular Minors Biological Sciences Chemistry Mathematics Physics Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Physics (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM The College of Education is committed to providing all students with purposeful, challenging and diverse experiences. It is through a range of carefully constructed, challenging and classroom-based instruction and field-based experiences that students recognize the inherent dignity and value of all individuals, promote equity in education and advocate on behalf of children, families and communities. RESEARCH The Inquiry in Motion Institute seeks to improve the motivation, potential and achievement of students and teachers using rigorous learning experiences. This research gives Clemson students strategies for improving student performance. Excellence Clemson hosts the Center of Excellence for Innovation in Mathematics and Science, which seeks to increase the number of highly qualified middle school math and science teachers, plus confidence and competence of in-service middle school teache OUTREACH The Emerging Scholars program provides outreach to disadvantaged students. Clemson students participate as program advisers who lead discussions, assist with registration and share personal experiences to encourage these students.Learn More » Meet a student Hunter Burgess talks about why he has enjoyed the science teaching program at Clemson. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Call Me MISTER Creative Inquiry Student Organizations AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Science Teacher Spartanburg School District One, S.C. Science Teacher Knox County Schools, Tenn. Science Teacher Richland School District Two, S.C. Science Teacher School District of Oconee County, S.C. Science Teacher Greenville County Schools, S.C. RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.Ed. Teaching and Learning Clemson University M.Ed. University of South Carolina M.Ed. College of Charleston COMMON CAREER AREAS Most graduates go on to teach in the state and region, while some continue with graduate education. High School (ninths through 12th grades) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jamie Garland Academic Adviser 864-656-3180 jgarlan@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Science Teaching (B.S./B.A.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Physics (B.S./B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.)