First Generation College Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Students First Generation College Students Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students Greek Life International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment First Generation College Students First-Generation College Students are the first members of their immediate family to attend college in the United States. Many first-generation college students experience unique strengths and challenges in the pursuit of a college education. Many of them may have to learn to adjust to the academic culture while maintaining the culture and traditions of their family of origin. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is committed to supporting and nurturing students’ intellectual, social, personal, and professional development by maximizing their use of available resources within the university and in the larger community. Common experiences for First-Generation Students These are some experiences that a counselor may be able to assist you with: Adjusting to the university culture and the college environment. Time management to meet the demands of academic, personal, and family responsibilities. Career options or indecision. Doubts about graduation. Relationship difficulties. Talking to family about college. Get involved on Campus CAPS recognizes the importance of being involved on campus, therefore, we encourage students to find events, activities, departments, and organizations that interest and serve their needs. Visit the UH calendar to learn about events on campus, many are free or offer a student discount. Become involved in a student organization or student activity. Familiarize yourself with different campus departments that can address specific concerns, meet specific needs, and offer specialized programs. The following is an abbreviated list of departments: African American Studies Asian American Studies Center Center for Diversity and Inclusion Center for Mexican American Studies Justin Dart, Jr. Student Accessibility Center Challenger Program International Student and Scholar Services LAUNCH LGBTQ Resource Center Office of Registration and Academic Records Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid UH Cougar Promise Student Health Center University Career Services Center for Student Empowerment Women and Gender Resource Center UH Writing Center How can CAPS help me? Clinicians on staff offer individual, couples, and group counseling to support you in addressing the challenges of college. If you are feeling overwhelmed, or are experiencing difficulty balancing your academic, social, financial, and family responsibilities, please do not hesitate to contact CAPS; clinicians are trained to assist you in addressing your concerns. For more information regarding seeking CAPS services or to schedule a First Visit (Triage) contact 713-743-5454. If you feel more comfortable expressing your concerns in another language, the following languages are spoken at CAPS: Danish, Spanish, Mandarin Chinese, Portuguese and Vietnamese. Current Programming for Fall 2013: Workshop Series Additional resources for First-Generation College Students First in the Family Income-Based Repayment Program Student Loan Borrower Assistance Student Mentorship Related Links First in the Family: Hope Pacheco Event Calendar Student Organizations Student Activities Additional Resources University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies