Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Visit Directory Portal News and Events Apply Apply About GW Law at a Glance About the Dean Visiting Campus History Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Academics Degrees Courses Areas of Study Clinics Field Placement Journals Fundamentals of Lawyering Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Advocacy Competitions Research Centers & Initiatives Academic Calendar Academic Services The Bulletin Admissions Why GW Law? JD Admissions LLM Admissions MSL Admissions SJD Admissions Joint Degree Programs Campus Tours Financial Aid Deadlines and Key Dates Check your Status Current Students Career Center Dean of Students Office Records Office Student Organizations & Briefs Academic Services Public Interest & Pro Bono Writing Center Student Wellness Foundations of Practice Inns of Court Dean's Student Advisory Board Alumni & Giving Alumni Career Services Benefits & Services Giving to GW Law Advisory Councils Events Get Involved Online Community Alumni Association Board Contact Alumni & Giving Faculty Full-Time Faculty Deans Adjunct Faculty Emeriti Librarians Visiting Faculty & Fellows Faculty Scholarship Library Friends of the Jacob Burns Law Library News & Events Events In the News Media Advisories News Stories Publications Communications Office Commencement 2022 GW Law and COVID-19 Enter the terms you wish to search for. Home Faculty Adjunct Faculty Steven M. Tepp Steven M. Tepp Title: Professorial Lecturer in Law Address: 2000 H Street, NW Washington, District Of Columbia 20052 Email: [email protected] Steven Tepp is the President and founder of Sentinel Worldwide. He is a globally recognized expert in intellectual property law and policy. He has written extensively on the subject and has been interviewed by ABC, BBC, CBS, FOX, NBC, and PBS, as well as numerous radio and print U.S.-based and foreign-based media outlets. Prior to forming Sentinel Worldwide, Mr. Tepp was Chief Intellectual Property Counsel for the Global Intellectual Property Center (GIPC) of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Previously, he served as senior counsel for Policy and International Affairs at the U.S. Copyright Office, where he negotiated numerous free trade agreements. He had principal responsibility for all copyright matters in the Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions and litigated the U.S.-China IPR dispute before the World Trade Organization. He also worked on domestic legislative matters and litigated many federal court cases. Mr. Tepp co-authored the Copyright Office’s Digital Millennium Copyright Act Section 104 Report to Congress (2001), as well as its 2003 and 2006 Section 1201 Rulemakings. Earlier in his career, Mr. Tepp was an attorney for the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee on the staff of the chairman, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), where he specialized in intellectual property and was the lead Senate staffer handling the American Inventors Protection Act of 1999. Mr. Tepp has previously taught copyright law at the Georgetown University Law Center and the George Mason University Law School. Education BA, Colgate University; JD, American University Full-Time Faculty Deans Adjunct Faculty Emeriti Librarians Visiting Faculty & Fellows Faculty Scholarship 2000 H Street, NW Washington, DC 20052 p - 202.994.1010 f - 202.994.8980 Visitor Information Directory Events Portal Alumni & Giving Campus Advisories Coronavirus Response EO/Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Notice Contact GW Accessibility Terms of Use Copyright A-Z Index GW is committed to digital accessibility. If you experience a barrier that affects your ability to access content on this page, let us know via the Accessibility Feedback Form.