Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Army ROTC Army ROTC right arrow down arrow Cadets & Campus Life right arrow down arrow Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Cadre Leadership right arrow down arrow PMS-LTC Black SMI - MSG Castillo APMS - MAJ Cary APMS - MAJ Aguirre MSI - SFC Schooff MSI - SFC Isbell Program Coordinator APMS - CPT Dalton APMS - CPT Bryan Alumni Home » Campus Life » Army ROTC » Cadre Leadership » APMS - MAJ Aguirre Set Navigation title in component PMS-LTC Black SMI - MSG Castillo APMS - MAJ Cary APMS - MAJ Aguirre MSI - SFC Schooff MSI - SFC Isbell Program Coordinator APMS - CPT Dalton APMS - CPT Bryan APMS - MAJ Aguirre Major John M. Aguirre Assistant Professor of Military Science Major (MAJ) John M. Aguirre was born in Bohol, Philippines and was raised in Columbus, Georgia. He attended Columbus State University and graduated with a Bachelor’s of Science in Criminal Justice and earned his commission through the Reserved Officer Trainer Corps program. He branched as a Signal Officer and was detailed as a Chemical Officer. He returned to Columbus State University and earned a Master’s in Public Administration with a focus in Government. MAJ Aguirre’s previous assignments and leadership positions include the Leadership Development Assessment Course at Fort Lewis, Washington in June 2009, where he assessed Army Cadets on the Physical Fitness Test. His next assignment was at Fort Hood, Texas with the 2nd Battalion 82nd Field Artillery Regiment, 3rd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division in March 2010 as a Battalion Chemical Officer. He deployed in support of Operation New Dawn where he served as the Task Force landowner Battle Captain for Dhi Qar and Muthana Provinces in Iraq. His next assignment was to Schofield Barracks, Hawaii with 1st Battalion, 21st Infantry Regiment, 2nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division in March 2013 as the Battalion Signal Officer. He deployed to the Kingdom of Thailand in support of Pacific Pathways conducting joint multi-national training with the Royal Thai Army on Operation Cobra Gold. Upon redeployment, the unit immediately conducted a Department of the Army National Training Center Rotation force on force; successfully operating in austere environments with mission capable communication systems. He took his first Company Command in September 2014 at 556th Signal Company where he successfully completed an MTOE change and became Charlie Company, 65th Brigade Engineer Battalion, 2nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division. His company deployed in support of Pacific Pathways to Korea, Japan, and Philippines. During that time, he was chosen as a guest Observer Control Trainer for 3rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division’s validation exercise on the island of Oahu, Hawaii and at Joint Readiness Training Center located at Ft. Polk, Louisiana. After successfully completing command, he served as the Deputy Cyber Security Manager at the 4th Regional Cyber Center-Pacific. He helped the Cyber Center achieve a three year authorize to operate accreditation on both NIPR and SIPR enclave though a successful Enterprise Mission Assurance validation. After acquiring his Master’s Degree, he served as the Commander for Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 160th Signal Brigade, his follow on assignment is at the University of Cincinnati where he is charged with training future Army Officers as an Assistant Professor of Military Science. MAJ Aguirre’s military education includes the Basic Officer Leaders Course, Chemical Officer Basic Course, Toxic Agent Training, Radiological Safety Course, Unit Movement Officer Course, Contracting Officer Representative Course, Signal Officer Basic Qualifier Course, Signal Captain Career Course, Commander/1SG Course, Combat Life Saver Course, Basic Combative Course, Tactical Combative Course, Unit Prevention Leader, Common Faculty Development – Instructor Course, Military History Instructors Course. MAJ Aguirre’s awards and decorations include the Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal (1OLC), Army Commendation Medal (1OLC), Army Achievement Medal (1OLC), National Defense Service Medal, Iraqi Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Medal, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon (Numeral 2), and the Meritorious Unit Citation. MAJ Aguirre is married to the former Anna Marie Gonzales of Columbus, Georgia and has one daughter, Adriana. University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top