Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Administration A nationally ranked comprehensive research university with eight degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU's more than 12,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education Online Learning International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 17 Division 1 sports programs and more than 30 club and intramural sports. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Research Campus Life Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs Virtual Tour SMU is one of the rare universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. ☰ Services for Persons with Disabilities SMU Disabilities Disabilities Southern Methodist University is committed to providing an inclusive and accessible campus for students, faculty, staff, and visitors with disabilities. The President’s Commission on the Needs of Persons with Disabilities (PCNPD) was established to support this effort and make annual recommendations to the University President. Main Points of Contact Students should contact Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies for questions and concerns Faculty, staff, and visitors can address questions to the Office of Institutional Access and Equity Website accessibility issues should be directed to web-accessibility@smu.edu President's Commission on the Needs of Persons with Disabilities Mission Statement The PCNPD is established to advise the University President on the special needs of disabled persons. Its activities shall include, among others, a study of the needs of the disabled, methods of making the campus community more aware of such needs, and steps that should be taken to make facilities more accessible. The Commission will meet not less than twice each semester. The Commission will not respond to individual complaints nor will it function as a grievance board, but it will forward any complaint alleging discrimination to the Affirmative Action office. The Commission may invite and meet with appropriate members of the administrative staff, Safety Commission, faculty, and students to obtain and disseminate information. At the close of the academic year, it will make a report and recommendations to the President. For information about PCNPD, contact the chair Tracy Anne Allred at tallred@SMU.edu. Assistive Listening Systems & Devices A Listen Technology portable assisted listening device is available for student, faculty, and staff use on campus. It is perfect for tour groups on campus as well. The system allows the speaker to wear a portable headset that transmits the signal to people wearing the receivers. Contact Shawn Remek to inquire about using the system. Shawn can be reached at 214-768-4419. There is no charge for usage. Event Accessibility Statement University departments are responsible for providing reasonable accommodations for guests attending their events. IAE is available to provide guidance and assistance to departments as needed. IAE recommends that hosts of SMU events place the following statement on their event advertising: “Any person who requires a reasonable accommodation on the basis of a disability in order to participate in this program should contact the [department name] at [department phone number and/or email] at least one week prior to the event to arrange for the accommodation.” Web Accessibility Policy University Policy 8.5 governs web accessibility. It establishes standards and designates a Web Accessibility Committee. This committee's primary responsibility is to oversee compliance with the policy and to promote web accessibility efforts. Communications about this policy, the Web Accessibility Committee, or about web accessibility in general should be directed to web-accessibility@smu.edu. Disabilities Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies ADA/504 Coordinator (OIAE) Student Services (ALEC) University Services (SRK) Library Services On-Campus Evaluation for Learning Disabilities & AD/HD Parking Map Parking Regulations Useful Links Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share