Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Opportunities >Experiential Opportunities>Baylor 2 Programs Baylor 2 Programs Baylor2: Medical and Law Tracks The Baylor2 Medical Track Program is a combined 8-year baccalaureate/MD program for selected high ability undergraduate students. Baylor University and Baylor College of Medicine grant six outstanding high school students provisional acceptance to Baylor College of Medicine upon matriculations to Baylor University. CLICK HERE for more information and access to the application. Please direct all questions regarding the Baylor2 application process to Admissions@baylor.edu. “I’m grateful for the freedom I had through B2B program to help make the most out of my time in undergrad. During my four years at BU, I explored my interests in health policy, the sciences, and medical humanities through my classes and Honors thesis, and invested in communities like the Honors Residential College, where I found great friends and mentors. Both my academic experience and personal formation at BU helped prepare me for starting medical school this year at BCM. Medical school is full of new challenges, but I feel well equipped to continue to grow. Getting to study medicine and talk to real patients has been incredibly rewarding. Overall, I’m thankful for my education through BU and BCM and hope to use it to become the best physician I can be.” – Jeffery Wang, Business Fellows major with secondary major in Biology (Honors), Class of 2018 "As a member of the B2B program, I knew early on that I would eventually go to medical school and become a physician. With this knowledge in mind, I have sought out opportunities throughout my undergraduate career to be formed in fields outside of the traditional science-focused pre-medicine track. Through the University Scholars major and the Honors Program, I have had the opportunity to delve into theology, medical humanities, and Spanish in an academically rigorous way and to write a thesis that combined my interests in faith and science. These programs have formed me as a person in such a manner that I am better prepared to engage with diverse patient populations, to address the challenges of a biotechnical society, and to view the world through many different historical, philosophical, and discipline-specific lenses. I believe I am a better person and will be a better doctor for this." -Sarah Heady, University Scholar with concentrations in Spanish, Medical Humanities, and Biology, Class of 2019 The Baylor2 Law Track Program guarantees six highly-talented freshmen admission into Baylor Law School. Selection into the program carries with it a full scholarship toward a Baylor Law degree. CLICK HERE for more information and access to the application. Please direct all questions regarding the Baylor2 application process to Admissions@baylor.edu. “Being a B2B Scholar is a blessing that has positively shaped every aspect of my life. I was sure that I wanted to go to law school, but the challenge of finding a quality program, and being accepted, was particularly daunting. Now, I can use the time that I would have spent researching postgraduate programs on other academic and service-related opportunities. The B2B Program has given me the freedom to take advantage of all that an undergraduate experience can offer, while still ensuring that I am ready for an excellent postgraduate education at Baylor University.” –Bryce Griffin, University Scholar with concentrations in Philosophy and Political Science, Class of 2020 “The B2B Pre-Law program means so much to me. The opportunities available to me through the program better equip me to serve the world through a career in the legal profession. Additionally, the scholarship money it awards has allowed me to fulfill my dream of going to Baylor.” –Clay Dominy, Political Science major with Honors, Class of 2022 Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Getterman Scholars Program Invitation to Excellence Distinguished Scholars Day DSD: Honors College Essay Submission Baylor 2 Programs Scholarships for Current Students Study Abroad Scholarships Student Research Materials Grant Travel Stipend HRC Leadership Scholarship Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give