Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Newsroom Search Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Newsroom: Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Newsroom Giving Back to Galveston: Big Event 2022 March 25, 2022 Share Tweet A student plants a tree during a previous volunteer event. By Andréa Bolt Every year “Howdy!” becomes “Howdy, how can we help?” when hundreds of Aggies by the Sea roll up their sleeves during the Big Event, a community-wide volunteering outreach day. Saturday, March 26, 2022, Texas A&M University at Galveston students will deploy to various need-based and community-centered areas to paint, plant, preserve and otherwise participate in beautification and upkeep projects across the island. “We’re going to roll up our sleeves and show the Galveston community what Aggie selfless service is all about. I’m excited!” said Texas A&M-Galveston COO Col. Mike Fossum ‘80. The Big Event is the largest one-day, student run community service project in the nation. Originally started in College Station in 1982, it has served as a way for the university to give something back to the community that is so supportive. In 1994, this Aggie Tradition was adopted on the Galveston Campus. Catch Aggies by the Sea students, staff, and Col. Fossum out and about at the following locations: Artist Boat Church of the Living God Galveston Island Tree Conservancy International Oleander Society Menard Park Austin Middle School Burnet Elementary School Reedy Chapel A.M.E. Church Crenshaw Environmental Science Magnet Odyssey Academy Rosenberg Library Galveston Children's Museum Cavalla Historical Foundation ###Media contact: Andréa Bolt Social Media & Communications Manager a_bolt@tamug.edu More: Read more about Health & Environment Read more about Student Life COVID-19 Social Media Share Buttons Follow Us TAMUG FacebookTAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Texas A&M University at Galveston is an ocean-oriented branch campus of Texas A&M University which educates nearly 2,300 undergraduate and graduate students in a unique blend of marine and maritime programs, including majors in science, business, engineering, liberal arts, and transportation. It is driving the development of the blue economy in the Gulf Coast Region and is a critical contributor to Texas A&M’s sea-grant portion of Texas A&M’s rare land-, sea-, space-grant mission with nearly $10 million in research expenditures. Texas A&M-Galveston is also home to the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, one of seven in the U.S. and the only academy integrated into a Tier 1 academic institution, which trains over 400 cadets annually for maritime service and employment around the world. Texas A&M-Galveston is ideally located in Galveston, Texas on the Gulf Coast where is it surrounded by the industry, environment and programs essential to fulfilling its special-purpose mission. Aggies are known for their deep commitment to the success of each other and their strong desire to serve. If you are interested in supporting this endeavor or research, please contact the Texas A&M University at Galveston Office of Development by email at GiveToSeaAggies@txamfoundation.com or by calling (409) 740-4481. © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top