Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Department of Slavic Studies Site Navigation Department of Slavic Studies People Undergraduate Graduate PhD Requirements Courses Svejkauskas Award Masters and Ph.D. Alumni PhD Dissertations Courses Study Abroad News and Events Cardinal Points Literary Journal Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with Slavic Studies! Marston Hall Brown University 20 Manning Walk, Box E Providence, RI 02912 Phone (401)-863-2689 Fax (401)-863-7330 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Department of Slavic Studies Graduate Graduate Graduate Student Curriculum The Ph.D. Degree The Department of Slavic Studies offers a comprehensive doctoral program in Slavic studies specializing in Russian literature and culture, in modern Czech culture, and in Polish literature and culture. The program has a strong interdisciplinary focus and students are expected to work with departmental faculty as well as with faculty in related fields, such as comparative literature, theater, history, art history, modern culture and media, and political science. The program will train flexible and innovative scholars able to address varying teaching and research needs in the future job market. We particularly target advanced students who would come to Brown with a strong background in at least one of the program's key disciplines (literature, language, culture, theater, social sciences). Students receive close guidance and are mentored in the pedagogy of language and literature/culture teaching. Completion Requirements A.M.: Eight courses, approved by the department Ph.D.: Sixteen courses, including five graduate seminars, and two to four courses in a secondary field of study; theory and methods of foreign language teaching, reading knowledge of the second language related to the student's specialization; teaching; qualifying examinations; dissertation and defense. Admission Information Admission Requirements: Advanced competence in Russian. Writing sample in English (12-15 pages). Knowledge/interest in another Slavic language (preferably Czech or Polish) is encouraged but not required. GRE General: Not required GRE Subject: Not required Application Deadline: January 7 Also in Department of Slavic Studies Site Navigation Department of Slavic Studies People Undergraduate Graduate PhD Requirements Courses Svejkauskas Award Masters and Ph.D. Alumni PhD Dissertations Courses Study Abroad News and Events Cardinal Points Literary Journal Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with Slavic Studies! Marston Hall Brown University 20 Manning Walk, Box E Providence, RI 02912 Phone (401)-863-2689 Fax (401)-863-7330 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Connect On Facebook Marston Hall Contact Us Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity