Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Opportunities Intellectual Growth Current: Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Global Policy Scholars Open to All Majors An exciting program for a select number of Honors students, the Dixon Global Policy Scholars (GPS) offers a challenging learning opportunity for students interested in pursuing a major scholarship (such as the Rhodes, Truman or Marshall) and in enhancing their knowledge of the issues that shape the world. The Dixon GPS students travel together on a study program to Europe, and will take specialized courses in dealing with politics, economics, philosophy, and public policy. Other features of the program include topical discussion groups and individualized mentoring. This program is limited to 12 students per year. Freshmen and sophomores from all majors are encouraged to apply. Program Benefits A European travel experience (see important note on COVID-19 impacts to travel below) Support in applying for major scholarships and graduate school Specialized coursework, seminars, workshops, and student-led discussion groups Preparation for Major Fellowship applications, such as the Rhodes, Marshall, and Truman Scholarships Maymester Study Travel Students chosen to be Dixon Global Policy Scholars will have the opportunity to participate in an intensive Maymester experience based in France and/or Germany, through which you will learn about the European Union. This trip will be planned in coordination with CEPA-Europe, a leader in providing meaningful study-abroad experiences for American and international students. Highlights include: Visits to key European institutions, such as the German Parliament and important historic sites and museums Meetings with key policy-makers, diplomats, academics, and journalists Tours of museums and historic sites Note on COVID-19 Impacts to Travel Under normal circumstances, GPS students would travel in May 2022. Due to the COVID-19 situation and related University travel restrictions, there is a possibility that this trip would be delayed. A decision on May 2022 travel will be made before Spring Break. In order to participate in the GPS travel experience, students must comply with all COVID19 protocols required by our travel provider and by the destination country or countries. Explore the Dixon GPS Program Curriculum “ “You’ll have someone from bioengineering and someone from computer science or environmental studies or political science all contributing to how different issues apply to their fields. Those discussions are some of my favorite Clemson experiences so far because they helped me see the importance of interdisciplinary work and how it can positively impact public policy development.” Louise Franke Dixon GPS Program Alumna Clemson's first-ever Rhodes Scholar How To Apply Elligibility The Dixon GPS program is open to: Freshmen who have a suggested minimum 3.60 GPR Sophomores who have a suggested minimum 3.75 GPR Applicants with an interest in pursuing a major scholarship, such as the Rhodes, Truman or Marshall Applicants with an interest in deepening their understanding of global policy, economics, politics, culture, science, technology and the arts Important: The announced GPR minimums for Dixon GPS are 3.75 (sophomores) and 3.60 (freshman). However, the committee will accept applications from students with lower GPRs with sufficient justification. All students must have a valid passport and (if necessary) other documentation for travel to Europe. Cost The only cost paid by participants will be for the required course taken in association with the GPS travel experience (one hour in-state tuition plus study abroad fees), and incidental travel expenses, including some meals. Limited financial aid may be available. As noted above, the timing of the travel experience is uncertain at this time. Application The 2022 Dixon GPS application and the required letter of support (see below) were due by 4:30pm, Friday, February 4, 2022. Watch this page for information about 2023 applications! Letter of Support Each applicant is required to have a Letter of Support from a Clemson faculty member. Letters in support of 2022 applications were submitted to https://bit.ly/GPS2022rec. If you are applying for Dixon GPS within the application cycle, be sure to send your recommender the link for submitting their Letter of Support and also give them the following information. When writing a letter of support for a student who is applying to Dixon GPS, the criteria that should be addressed include: Evidence of and continued potential for academic success including the student’s ability to think and write analytically. The student’s maturity, motivation, and seriousness of purpose. The student’s level of interest in international and/or national issues. The student’s potential to have an impact on the world around him/her. Joseph E. and Caroline G. Dixon Joseph E. Dixon Joseph E. Dixon was born in 1917 in Dillon, South Carolina, son of Harry Edmiston Dixon and Nina David Dixon. He grew up in South Carolina and attended elementary through high school in Columbia. He died in 2010. At Clemson University, from which he graduated in 1939, Mr. Dixon lettered in varsity boxing and earned a Bachelor of Sciences degree. In October 1940, he was called into the service and during his six and one half years in the Army, served in the Pacific and European theaters and was promoted from Second Lieutenant to Infantry Major. After returning home from World War II in 1946, he began working in Philadelphia as a sales representative for World Book Encyclopedia, part of Field Enterprises, Inc. During his over thirty-five years with World Book, he was sales manager for South Carolina and part of Georgia. For eleven out of twelve years, 1968-1979, the branch under his management led the eighty-four branches in the United States and Canada in total sales. He concluded his World Book career as Senior Vice President in charge of sales for the Eastern United States and Canada. Mr. Dixon was a member of Eastminster Presbyterian Church, where he served as a deacon and Boy Scout leader. Mr. Dixon passed away in 2010. Caroline Goggins Dixon Caroline Goggans Dixon was born in Columbia, daughter of the late James Furman Goggans and Isoline Wyche Goggans. After graduating from old Columbia High School, she attended Hollins College and graduated from the University of South Carolina. Not only did she do substantial work as a community volunteer, but she was also a major source of support in the course of Mr. Dixon's career with World Book Encyclopedia. Her work as a community volunteer included serving as president of The Junior League of Columbia and as treasurer of the Board of Directors of the Historic Columbia Foundation. Mrs. Dixon was one of a six-member committee that directed and carried out the campaign to raise funds necessary to save the endangered Robert Mills House in 1962 and later received the Historic Columbia Foundation Award for Distinguished Achievement in Historic Preservation. A longtime supporter of the Columbia and Metropolitan Opera guilds, she was also a member of The National Society of The Colonial Dames of America and of The Daughters of the American Revolution. She was a member of Eastminster Presbyterian Church in Columbia. Mrs. Dixon passed away in 2000. She and Mr. Dixon are survived by two children and two grandchildren. Find Out More If you have questions or comments, or are interested in hearing more about the Dixon Global Policy Scholars program, please contact Dr. William Lasser, Executive Director of the Honors College. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson