Bashaw, Barbara (bjb24) Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC WWW View All Faculty Profiles Home Vitae Barbara Bashaw Arnhold Professor of Practice in Dance Education Executive Director - Arnhold Institute for Dance Education Research, Policy & Leadership TC Affiliations: Arts & Humanities Dance Education Home Vitae Educational Background Ed.D. Art & Art Education, Teachers College, Columbia University M.A., Dance Education, Teachers College, Columbia University C.M.A., Laban Bartentieff Institute of Movement Studies B.S. Interdisciplinary Arts for Children and Dance Performance, Summa Cum Laude, SUNY Brockport Scholarly Interests intersection of human development and embodied cognition in artistic development; dance teacher education; dance education history; interdisciplinary learning; embodied elicitation research methods. Selected Publications Bashaw, B. and Nesbit, M. [In press]. The whistle blower: ‘Taking care’ of sexual abuse disclosures while supervising student teachers in dance in Risner, D. and Schupp, K. [Eds.], Case Studies in Dance Education, McFarland. Bashaw, B. [2016]. Dance as core content in U.S. education: New standards for a new century. The Korean Journal of Dance Studies. V60, 3 pp., 1-14. Bashaw, B. (2015.) Thinking skills writing prompts for dance: Negotiating common core instruction. Dance Education in Practice, 1 (1). 23. Bashaw, B. (2011). Young choreographers: An ethno phenomenological study of developmental and socio-cultural influences during untutored dance making. New York: Columbia University, Teachers College, 369 pages; AAT 3484341. Bashaw, B. (2009). A hidden world of dance making. Dance, Dance Education in Human Life, Korean Association of Dance International Congress, Seoul, South Korea. Biographical Information Dr. Barbara Bashaw is the Director of the Ed.D. Dance Education Program. With extensive teaching and leadership experience in university settings as a graduate director, program director and as a department chair, she is a recognized expert in dance teacher education. She founded and pioneered three of the leading graduate programs in dance education: Rutgers University (Ed.M. Dance Education with Teacher Certification) and New York University (M.A. Dance Education with Teacher Certification and M.A. Ballet Pedagogy). As a chair, she has also led a top-ranked, conservatory department within Mason Gross School of the Arts, Rutgers University, which awards B.A., B.F.A., Ed.M. and M.F.A. dance degrees. She has also served on the faculties of Teachers College (1996-2000), the Graduate School of Education at Rutgers (2010-2017) and the Dance Education Laboratory (1997-Present). Dr. Bashaw is actively engaged in qualitative, ethnographic, historical, survey and mixed-methods research. She has examined the perspectives of choreographers, dance educators, university dancers, children and adolescent dance learners. She has published articles and book chapters, serves on the editorial boards of Dance Education In Practice journal and the Korean Journal of Dance Studies, and has been a keynote speaker as well as has presented her scholarship at over 50 conferences nationally and internationally. She has been sought out to lead dance education residencies and professional development workshops. Actively involved in public scholarship, she has served on national and NEA funded projects including the NCAS National Dance Standards writing team; the NDEO Dance Entry Level Teacher Assessment; the New Jersey VPA Dance Standards writing team; the New Jersey State Teacher Preparation Standards VPA committee; the NJDOE CTE Dance and Theater High School Exam; the NYSED Dance Content Specialty Certification Exam; and the NYCDOE Blueprint for Dance advisory committee, amongst other projects. As a board member, Bashaw was instrumental in re-constituting NYSDEA and has served as president of Dance New Jersey. With a committed belief that youth have important insights to contribute within a wide spectrum of dance artistry, Dr. Bashaw is committed to advancing equity and access to dance education and challenging historical prejudices in the field. Dr. Bashaw’s scholarship continues to be informed by children as young artists and an appreciation for their lively and profound worldviews. Prior to transitioning to post-secondary education, Dr. Bashaw worked with children and adolescents within community settings; private studios; co-founder of Bridge for Dance; as well as with the NYCDOE public schools. As a PK-12 certified, tenured, PK-12 dance educator, she was recognized for her work, “Choreographer’s Workshop,” guiding young choreographers using a fusion of interdisciplinary methods, social justice dialogue, and Laban movement analysis approaches. She began her PK-12 career as a teaching artist and master teacher-of-teachers for Creative Arts Laboratory, ArtsConnection, and the 92Y School Partners program, where she collaborated with and learned from hundreds of classroom and arts teachers. Throughout her PK-12 career, she has worked in a wide variety of school contexts including zoned, SURR, magnet and gifted elementary, middle and high schools. With an interest in the intersection between PK-12 and post-secondary education, Dr. Bashaw directed the Rutgers Summer Dance Conservatory (2010-2017), which integrates university faculty, PK-12 faculty and graduate students to provide pre-college dance education opportunities and outstanding scholarship funding to underserved youth. Dr. Bashaw has choreographed professionally for theater companies, PK-12 programs and college programs where she has also served as Artistic Director for numerous productions. She is a Laban Certified Movement Analyst and has engaged in a wide range of dance and somatic studies, including Afro-Brazilian, Afro-Haitian, Bartenieff Fundamentals, ballet, ballroom, jazz, modern (focus on Limon and Humphrey-Weidman) raks sharki, and tap. Some of her notable teachers have included Bonnie Bainbridge Cohen, Alan Danielson, Jaqueline Davis, Robert Ellis Dunn, Garth Fagan, Sandra Fraleigh, Julio Jean, Carol Mezzacappa, Clyde Morgan, Djoniba Mouflet, Susanna Newman, Jim Payton, Janice Pforsich, and Jacqueline Villamil. Dr. Bashaw’s life-partner is the lauded choreographer and Guggenheim Fellow, Doug Elkins. Honors and Awards Rutgers Leadership Academy (2017-2019) Honorary Doctorate of Fine Arts, The College at Brockport, State University of New York (2015) Teaching Excellence Award, NYU Steinhardt (2009) BAX10 Passing It On Arts Educator Award (2004) Emerging Visionary Award, National Dance Education Organization (2003) Featured Teacher, Dance Teacher Magazine (2003) Charter Academy Member, New York State Academy for Teaching and Learning (1997) Professional Experiences Selected Public Scholarship New Jersey Core Arts Standards, Dance Task Force Writing Team (2014-2015) Visual and Performing Arts, Office of Curriculum and Instruction New Jersey Department of Education, Trenton, New Jersey Dance Entry Level Teacher Assessment Exam, Co-Editor (2013-Present) National Dance Education Organization, Silver Spring, Maryland National Core Arts Standards, Dance Task Force Writing Team (2011-2015) National Coalition for Core Arts Standards, Reston, Virginia Rutgers Pre-College Summer Dance Conservatory, Director (2010-2017) Mason Gross School of the Arts, Extension Division Rutgers University, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey NJDOE CTE Dance and Theater Exams, Site Coordinator & Data Analyst (2009-2012) Office of Career and Technical Education New Jersey Department of Education, Trenton, New Jersey Blueprint for Teaching & Learning in Dance, Advisory Team (2003-2006) Office of Arts and Special Projects New York City Department of Education, New York, New York NYS Dance Content Specialty Exam, Advisory Committee (2003-2005) New York State Education Department Albany, New York Selected Artistic Direction DancePlus Concert (2018) Works by Stefanie Batten-Bland, Maxine Doyle, John Evans, Paul Ocampo, Laurel Snyder, Pam Tanowitz and Chien Ying Wang Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey F.A. Senior Concert (2018) Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Student Concert (2018) Loree Dance Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Motion: New Dance Works (2017) Co-Produced with Dan Swern, coLab Arts Featuring works by Kiri Avelar, Jessica Featherson, Camille Moten, Esther Baker-Tarpaga, Stephanie Beauchamp and Hillary Marie Loree Dance Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Rutgers in New York: Dance at the Joyce (2017) Works by Darrell Grand Moultrie, Lar Lubovitch, Mark Morris and Reggie Wilson The Joyce Theater, New York, New York DancePlus Concert (Fall 2017) Featuring works by John Evans, Lar Lubovitch, Mark Morris, Darrell Grand Moultrie, Pam Tanowitz and Reggie Wilson Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey BFA Senior Solo and Duet Concert (2017) Loree Dance Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey From the Horses Mouth: Celebrating Don Redlich (2017) Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Alumni Dance Concert (2017) Loree Dance Theater Featuring Joe Monteleone, Shawn Brush, Sara Crayne-Dedrick, Andy Santana and Jennifer Payan Loree Dance Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Mason Gross Summer Series (2017) Works by Hi-K Dance, Seoul, Korea Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Dance New Jersey Showcase (2016) Works by Lauren Connolly, Maureen Glennon, Randy James and Ariel Rivka Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Mason Gross Summer Series (2012-2015) Works by The BANG Group (2015) Works by Douglas Dunn and Dancers (2014) Works by Doug Elkins, Randy James and Manuel Vignoulle (2013) Works by Monica Bill Barnes (2012) Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Rutgers Summer Conservatory Showcases (2011-2017) Victoria J. Mastrobuono Theater, New Brunswick, New Jersey Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links