Skip to main content Search About Us Staff Board of Advisors Phyllis and Jerome Lyle Rappaport Foundation Contact Us Subscribe News & Announcements Research & Publications Applied Research Major Reports Working Papers Policy Briefs Special Collections Research Funding Student Opportunities Public Policy Summer Fellowship Experiential Learning Rappaport/Boston Urban Scholarship Executive Education Events HKS Home About Us Staff Board of Advisors Phyllis and Jerome Lyle Rappaport Foundation Contact Us Subscribe News & Announcements Research & Publications Applied Research Major Reports Working Papers Policy Briefs Special Collections Research Funding Student Opportunities Public Policy Summer Fellowship Experiential Learning Rappaport/Boston Urban Scholarship Executive Education Events HKS Home Search Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston Improving the governance of Greater Boston by strengthening connections among the region's scholars, students, and civic leaders You are here Home Taubman Center for State and Local Government Programs & Initiatives Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston NEWS AND UPDATES 2022 Rappaport Public Policy Fellows Twenty graduate students from 13 graduate schools in Greater Boston will spend the summer working in key state and local agencies in Boston as Rappaport Public Policy Fellows. Students were chosen from a field of almost 160 applicants. Press Release Presumptive Declination & Diversion in Suffolk County New research released by the Rappaport Institute indicates a policy from former DA Rachael Rollins of Suffolk County, MA, to limit her office’s prosecution of nonviolent misdemeanor offenses significantly reduced prosecution rates in those cases with no increase in recidivism. Press Release Automatic Health Insurance Policies & Coverage Outcomes Do small hassles in health insurance enrollment cause people to become uninsured? This study from Prof. Mark Shepard looks at the impact and outcomes of automatic health insurance plans in Massachusetts. Policy Brief Laying the foundation for future civic leaders Justin de Benedictis-Kessner joined HKS in 2020 to bring more of this policy-oriented research into his teaching. His inaugural experiential learning class pairs cities with student teams to tackle real-world policy issues Article Subscribe Sign up to receive the latest on Rappaport Institute events, research, and student opportunities. Sign Up INSPIRING THE NEXT GENERATION OF CIVIC LEADERS The Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston supports emerging civic leaders through fellowships, programs, and experiential learning opportunities. Public Policy Summer Fellowship Graduate students spend 10 weeks in Greater Boston's state and local agencies during a paid summer internship. Fellows help agencies advance high-profile, important policy projects and key priorities. Learn more Urban Fellowship Program For more than forty years, this program has provided full-tuition scholarships to help elected and appointed officials from Greater Boston attend HKS's Mid-Career Master's Program. Learn more Experiential Learning Experiential learning opportunities and field labs pair students with state and local agencies in Greater Boston to tackle critical policy issues from many angles. Learn more Executive Education Appointed officials from Boston and Cambridge are eligible for full- and partial-tuition scholarships to short-term Executive Education programs at the Kennedy School. Learn more Learn About Our Public Policy Fellows "I had to think critically about policy design and delivery for the range of individuals faced with housing challenges upon release – from elders, to parents, to individuals with disabilities – when providing recommendations for a transitional housing plan for returning citizens. I am grateful to have experienced how the City of Boston is dedicating its resources to improve reentry efforts and reducing the barriers to a successful reintegration into the community." - Alexis Farmer, 2020 Fellow for Boston's Office of Returning Citizens GENERATING POLICY SOLUTIONS Through world-class, in-depth research from Harvard's faculty and post-doctoral students, the Rappaport Institute is helping find solutions to challenges facing Greater Boston and drive policy action. Scaling Auctions as Insurance: A Case Study of Mass DOT Infrastructure projects are often complex and subject to unexpected changes. The paper on which this brief is based studies how contracts for construction work are allocated. Policy Brief Chelsea Eats Guaranteed Income Pilot Program The Rappaport Institute is analyzing the impact of Chelsea Eats, a guaranteed income pilot program launched by the City of Chelsea in September 2020 to support Chelsea residents during the COVID-19 crisis. Special Project Massachusetts Food Access During COVID-19 The Massachusetts Food Access project interviewed families to learn about the challenges they faced during the COVID-19 crisis. The project aims to improve the delivery of services and discover stories that motivate action. Applied Research STIMULATING INFORMED DISCUSSION The Rappaport Institute serves as a forum for Greater Boston's thought leaders, urban scholars, community advocates, and students to discuss the pressing issues facing the city and its surrounding communities. The Greater Boston Debate Series, hosted by the Rappaport Institute and the Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy at Boston College Law School, galvanizes Greater Boston's scholars, students, policymakers, and thought leaders to engage in dynamic conversations and research on critical public policy issues. Greater Boston Debate Series TWEETS FROM THE RAPPAPORT INSTITUTE VLiTBHA RT @VLiTBHA: At @TaubmanCenter @RappaportInst fireside chat of his new #harvardbusinessreviewpress book, @MassGovernor spoke of bringing ch… 6 days ago. GBHForumNetwork RT @GBHForumNetwork: Can Removing Policing and Prosecution of Traffic Violations Make Us Safer? Stacy Thompson @StreetsBoston and Dr. Felix… 15 days ago. LJBilmes RT @LJBilmes: Proud of my students work on digital equity and lowering carbon emissions in Boston! Discussing their work with @MayorWu⁩, wh… 19 days ago. VLiTBHA RT @VLiTBHA: At @TaubmanCenter @RappaportInst fireside chat of his new #harvardbusinessreviewpress book, @MassGovernor spoke of bringing ch… 6 days ago. LJBilmes RT @LJBilmes: Proud of my students work on digital equity and lowering carbon emissions in Boston! Discussing their work with @MayorWu⁩, wh… 19 days ago. GBHForumNetwork RT @GBHForumNetwork: Can Removing Policing and Prosecution of Traffic Violations Make Us Safer? Stacy Thompson @StreetsBoston and Dr. Felix… 15 days ago. VLiTBHA RT @VLiTBHA: At @TaubmanCenter @RappaportInst fireside chat of his new #harvardbusinessreviewpress book, @MassGovernor spoke of bringing ch… 6 days ago. GBHForumNetwork RT @GBHForumNetwork: Can Removing Policing and Prosecution of Traffic Violations Make Us Safer? Stacy Thompson @StreetsBoston and Dr. Felix… 15 days ago. LJBilmes RT @LJBilmes: Proud of my students work on digital equity and lowering carbon emissions in Boston! Discussing their work with @MayorWu⁩, wh… 19 days ago. CSS - Do Not Delete JavaScript - Do Not Delete Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston Harvard Kennedy School of Government 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-5091 About the Institute News Events Research Student Opportunities Newsletter Sign Up Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://twitter.com/RappaportInst