Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The UofM Experience Academics Campus Life UofM Campuses City of Memphis Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation UofM Experience Campus Life Let the good times roar Maybe you grew up living close to the UofM and it’s always been in your blood. Maybe you’ll travel from miles away to join Tiger Nation. Either way, once you find yourself here, the feeling is special. We attract students from diverse backgrounds. And like generations of Tigers before you, you’ll arrive, be changed forever, then use your UofM education to propel you on to great things. Your Me + Memphis Path You can define your college journey by getting involved. At the UofM there are 360+ organizations and clubs, including 12 fraternities and 12 sororities, to spark your interest. Every school year begins with a Student Involvement Fair where you get the inside scoop on each group and decide where you want to plug in. Learn more about Student Leadership & Involvement > | Follow @slimemphis on Instagram > Connect + Belong Even if you don’t join a single group, there are still countless ways to make the most of your UofM years. We keep the cool coming with concerts, art exhibits, theatre performances, cultural events, intramural and club sports, international festivals and much more. The majority of events are free with your student I.D. Art, Music, Theatre & Dance Events > | Intramural & Club Sports > | Other Student Events > Pride + Joy With unmatched spirit everywhere, being a Memphis Tiger will leave a mark on your soul while you’re here and long after. We all come together on game days in ways that are electrifying. Memphis Athletics will keep you on the edge of your seat as you root our men’s and women’s sports teams on to victory. Students get access to games for free with student I.D. Tiger Athletics > Fabulous + Fit Mingle with friends and make new ones at the amazing R. Brad Martin Student Wellness Center and nearby Rec and Sports Complex, a hub for fitness equipment, yoga, spin classes, tennis, basketball, group fitness studios, lazy days by the pool and tons more. There’s a smoothie café and hangout spaces throughout the gorgeous new Student Wellness Center. Cardio day? Ab day? Leg day? Just chillin’ day? See you there! Campus Recreation > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.