Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Parents Site Navigation Home Life on Campus A to Z Campus Safety Emergency Contacts Important Dates Academics Directory Information (and Suppression) Careers & Life After Brown Emergency Communication Commencement Finances Parent Communication Terms & Acronyms Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1000 Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory For Parents & Families Welcome! Whether your student is new to Brown or returning for another year, this website provides an orientation to life at Brown -- the ways we ask students to think about their Brown education and membership in the Brown community, their opportunities and challenges, and the many people and resources available. We hope that by helping you know Brown better, you will be able to help your student maximize their Brown experience. This way of "getting involved" at the individual student level is incredibly important. The sections of this site describe Brown's approach to liberal learning, the many services we provide to students, and the ways you can get involved in the Brown community. ON THIS SITE NOW What is "shopping period"? Verification of Enrollment Academic Advising Bear Bucks MyMeal Parent Newsletter Safety @ Brown What is “shopping period?” Undergraduates have a two-week period of exploration in which to finalize their course schedules in advance of the deadline to add a class, which is published on the Academic Calendar. Students refer to this window as the "shopping period" but take it more seriously than the term might imply. With advice from their assigned academic advisors, trained peer advisors, concentration advisors, academic deans, and others, students use this window to explore new topics as they make decisions about their intellectual goals and define their academic pathway. As architects of their education, Brown students are expected to be active participants in their education; this requires that they reflect on their strengths, interests, and goals, and that they make informed choices about the areas of study they pursue. Academic advisors are happy to discuss options in the beginning of each semester and can be crucial in the decision-making process; encourage your student to talk with their assigned advisor or another faculty or dean available through one of our academic advising programs. The lack of certainty and absence of a fixed "road map" can be unsettling for some students; still, others attend six, eight, or ten classes in the first week to end up with four. Why? Often, students discover a new course, topic, issue, or professor, in many cases through the recommendations of their peers or advisors; in other cases, a course may be different from what the student expected when they initially registered for it; in other instances, the end of the previous semester may have prompted a student to reevaluate their plans for the subsequent semester. Verification of Enrollment Instructions for requesting proof of a student's enrollment--for insurance or other documentation purposes--are available from the Registrar's Office. MyMeal | Dining menus and ingredients MyMeal is an online tool that can help students make smart, healthy choices in Brown dining units. Students may use it on a desktop or mobile device to view menus at different Dining Services units and plan healthy meals throughout the day; they may also use the screening tools to identify foods with common allergens. Academic Advising Brown's advising structures support students throughout their academic journey. Before arriving on campus, every incoming first-year is assigned two advisors -- an academic advisor and a student peer advisor -- who help them navigate Brown's open curriculum. Transfer students are connected with a concentration advisor and a Transfer Peer Counselor. In the first year and beyond, students meet with their advisors at key moments to discuss their academic choices and to plan for subsequent terms. Parents may wish to explore the exciting array of concentrations and courses through Focal Point, and to read more about Academic Advising in each year. Bear Bucks | Add funds on-line Once they have established a Bear Bucks account, students swipe their Brown ID to do laundry, print or make photocopies, make purchases from on-campus vending machines and at other campus locations that accept BearBucks. On-line, credit card deposits to Bear Bucks are now possible through the GET portal. Family members may also add funds to a student's BearBucks account by going to get.cbord.com/brown and entering the student's Brown ID#, last name, and birth date to make a deposit. Students may still may still add funds by putting paper money into a Value Port machine on campus, depositing in person at the Cashier’s Office, or sending a check to the Cashier’s Office. Safety at Brown The Safety at Brown website provides summary information about safety-related services, tools, policies, and best practices that will help protect members of the Brown community. Parents and Families Newsletter The newsletter is emailed several times each year with news and updates specific to undergraduate life at Brown. See the section on Parent Communication for newsletter editions and information about parent email addresses. This site is a joint effort of the offices of Campus Life, the Dean of the College, and the Parent Program in Advancement. Also in Parents Site Navigation Home Life on Campus A to Z Campus Safety Emergency Contacts Important Dates Academics Directory Information (and Suppression) Careers & Life After Brown Emergency Communication Commencement Finances Parent Communication Terms & Acronyms Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1000 Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory CALENDARS Academic Calendar Athletics Calendar University Events Year-at-a-Glance SUBSCRIBE Weekly News from Brown Featured Events Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity