Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 URI Master Gardener: Container Gardening with a Twist Commencement 2022 National Public Health Week 2022 National Public Health Week (April 4-8) is a week-long, annual celebration of public health supported by the American Public Health Association and honored at Brown University with events and opportunities that highlight the public health impact of Brown’s research community and the importance of public health in all our lives. We invite you to explore Public Health Research Day posters, listen to the Humans in Public Health podcast series, and to the Barnes Lecture, delivered this year by Gina McCarthy, the first White House National Climate Advisor under President Joe Biden. Public Health Research Day Explore over 70 public health posters at the School's annual research conference View the winning posters Barnes Lecture Join Megan Ranney in conversation with White House National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy Watch on YouTube Humans in Public Health Get to know new SPH faculty and how their work impacts public health! New episodes throughout NPHW Listen to the podcast Library Resources The Brown Library has rounded up a great set of public health resources for NPHW Visit the Library National Public Health Week events: Monday, April 4, 2022 | noon - 1 p.m. | Virtual The Barnes Lecture featuring Gina McCarthy Join Dr. Megan Ranney, academic dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, for a special virtual conversation with Gina McCarthy, White House National Climate Advisor under President Joseph Biden. Ms.McCarthy leads the White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy focused on mobilizing a whole-of-government approach to tackling the climate crisis, creating good-paying union jobs, and securing environmental justice. Watch on YouTube Monday, April 4, 2022 | 4 - 6 p.m. | Virtual Student Panel: Epidemiology and Using Evidence to Address Racism The Rhode Island Public Health Association welcomed students for a panel discussion highlighting epidemiology as a career and recognizing racism as a public health crisis. Three epidemiologists share their distinct perspectives on the field, career preparation, and future opportunities to use epidemiology to measure, address, and end racism. Watch now Monday, April 4, 2022 | 6 - 6:30 p.m. | Virtual Betty Marcus Women's Health Endowment Fund Awards Bess Marcus, Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, invites you to a virtual zoom presentation of the 2022 Betty Marcus Women's Health Endowment Fund Awards. The Betty Marcus Women’s Health Awards are presented annually to health care providers affiliated with the Miriam Hospital who epitomize excellence in community service, research, and/or clinical service for women. Tuesday, April 5, 2022 | 1:30pm - 3:30 p.m. | Alumnae Hall Public Health Research Day The School of Public Health's annual conference highlighting the research accomplishments of Brown's students, trainees, and partners. All members of the Brown community are welcome to visit the poster session to learn more about Brown students’ high-impact public health work. View the winning posters Tuesday, April 5, 2022 | 1:30pm - 3:30pm | Alumnae Hall | Crystal Room Public Health Community Organizations Fair As part of Public Health Research Day, we invite you to connect with local public health organizations to learn about research, internship, and postgraduate job opportunities. Wednesday, April 6, 2022 | 12 - 1:00pm | Virtual URI Master Gardener: Container Gardening with a Twist Join URI Master Gardener Noreen Kepple to learn the techniques of container gardening including plant, container, and soil choices as well as plant needs like light, watering, fertilizing, and drainage. Start the spring feeling confident creating your own gardens in containers, maybe with a twist! Watch now Thursday, April 7, 2022 | 12 - 1:00pm | 121 South Main St, 3rd Floor Slow Flowing Yoga All members of the Brown community are invited to attend a slow flowing yoga class with certified instructor Anita Bevens. Deep stretching and some strengthening and stability will be followed by 15 minutes of mindful relaxation for mind and body stillness. Thursday, April 7, 2022 Delta Omega Honorary Society induction Induction ceremony for the Epsilon Iota Chapter of the Delta Omega Honorary Society. Attendance by invitation only. More about Delta Omega Thursday, April 7, 2022 | 4 / 5 p.m. | India Point Park SPH Student Day of Service Please join the Delta Omega Society, the SPH-GSC, and the Public Health DUG in a Day of Service park cleanup of India Point Park. Students are invited to meet at the School of Public Health (121 S. Main Street) at 4pm on Thursday 4/7 for pizza in the 2nd floor kitchen, and then walk over to the park as a group at 4:45pm, or meet us directly at the park at 5pm. Latex gloves and trash bags will be provided for trash pickup at the park, and there may also be opportunities to clean-up the park in other ways such as cutting the grass or tending to the plants as well. Monday, April 11, 2022 | 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. | Faculty Lounge Blood Drive The SPH community generously made 21 donations to the Rhode Island Blood Center during National Public Health Week! The need for donations is more urgent than ever! Learn more Resources: Daily Mindfulness The Mindfulness Center at Brown offers free daily online mindfulness sessions open to the public to help ease anxiety and build community. Register for a free mindfulness session The Brown University Library Celebrates NPHW2022 Our thanks to the Brown Library for rounding up this list of public health library resources available at Brown, including online access to biomedical and public health literature, resources for reliable health information, and information on special collections. Learn more Wellness Resources for the Brown Community Physical, mental, and emotional health and well-being are central to achieving goals and life balance. These curated resources from across Brown and beyond are here to support the Brown community and to help with navigating this unpredictable time. Check out the resources Hashtag #NPHW on Twitter and IG About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 URI Master Gardener: Container Gardening with a Twist Commencement 2022 School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top