Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi Invitation Initiation Scholarships & Fellowships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Chapter Officers Faculty/Staff Members National Site Home PKP The Nation's Oldest & Most Selective Phi Kappa Phi - University of Mempis (Chapter 121) Phi Kappa Phi is a national honor society whose purpose is to promote the pursuit of excellence in all fields of higher education. The Society was first to recognize superior scholarship in all fields of study and to take into membership the highest-ranking students of sound character from all academic disciplines. The University of Memphis recognizes Phi Kappa Phi as the leading honor society in the University and acknowledges members of Phi Kappa Phi at Commencement exercises. Membership Membership in Phi Kappa Phi is certainly a career-building accomplishment. When you meet the requirements and are asked to join, you will be part of a distinguished network of the best and the brightest from all kinds of academic backgrounds. Phi Kappa Phi was the first honor society in the nation to recognize superior scholarship in all fields of study and now has chapters at more than 300 campuses across the United States. The University of Memphis recognizes Phi Kappa Phi as the leading honor society in the University and acknowledges members of Phi Kappa Phi at Commencement exercises. Membership in Phi Kappa Phi is by invitation only and requires nomination and approval by a chapter. A formal letter of invitation will be sent to eligible candidates. More Information on Membership & Eligibility > Benefits The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi offers numerous benefits and resources to assist members throughout their academic and professional lives. Highly Selective Membership: Limited membership is offered to the top performing second-semester juniors, seniors and graduate students. Upperclass/Graduate Student Focus: Recognizes those who prove to be strong scholars throughout their academic careers. Extensive Community: With more than 1.5 million members inducted since 1897, the Society includes scholars and professionals in just about every discipline imaginable. Recognition and Rewards: New members attend an initiation ceremony on their campus and receive a personalized membership certificate and card and the official Phi Kappa Phi pin. They also may receive a personalized press release about their initiation. Résumé Enhancements: Phi Kappa Phi logo graphics and verification letters are available to highlight your membership in the nation's oldest and most selective all-discipline honor society. Award Programs: Members are eligible to apply for nearly $1 million in awards each year. The programs range from $35,000 Fellowships for graduate school to $500 Love of Learning grants for continuing education and professional development. Member Discounts: Corporate partners, such as AT&T, Dell, GEICO, and Lenovo, provide valuable discounts and services to members. More Information on Membership Benefits > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/11/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.