Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc The Occom Circle View and Search Documents Annotations About Samson Occom About the Project Editorial Statement Please read Dartmouth Library's Statement on Potentially Harmful Content. Digital by Dartmouth Library Digital Collections The Occom Circle Papers of Samson Occom (Mohegan, 1727-1792), author, minister, missionary, intertribal leader, and public intellectual. ABOUT THIS COLLECTION Mezzotint of Samson Occom by Jonathan Spilsbury, after a portrait by Mason Chamberlin, 1768. National Portrait Gallery, public domain. Wiqômun ~ Welcome! The Occom Circle provides free access to handwritten documents by and about Samson Occom (Mohegan, 1727-1792), intertribal leader, Presbyterian minister, and public intellectual, who helped raise the funds that eventually established Dartmouth College. This digital scholarly edition includes high-resolution images with diplomatic (literal) and modernized transcriptions, as well as annotations identifying people, places, organizations, and important events. This collection includes letters, diaries, sermons, prose, a page of herbal remedies, and annotated books by or related to Samson Occom and several of Eleazar Wheelock's earliest Native American students. The manuscripts, circa 1743-1794, document Occom's early student life under Wheelock's tutelage, his life as a minister at Montauk and Mohegan, his trip to England to raise money for what would become Dartmouth College, his travels as an itinerant preacher, as well as personal reflections on his life as an educated Indian in Colonial America. The manuscripts also document his and other Native students' relationships with Eleazar Wheelock. Samson Occom's papers and materials were repatriated to the Mohegan Tribe on April 27, 2022. PROJECT FUNDERS The Occom Circle is supported by funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Neukom Institute at Dartmouth, and the Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning. RIGHTS INFORMATION Dartmouth College Library assigns a Creative Commons BY-NC license to the digital work and associated website. Through a series of partnerships and initiatives, the Dartmouth Library is working toward the responsible stewardship of Indigenous materials like Samson Occom's papers, in keeping with the Protocols for Native American Archival Materials. Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy