Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Students How to Apply MA Writing and RhetoricTESOLApplied LinguisticsLiteratureTechnical Communication MFA Creative WritingFAQ PhD Applied LinguisticsWriting, Rhetoric, and Technical CommunicationLiterary and Cultural Studies Certificate African American LiteratureTeaching English to Speakers of Other LanguagesWriting Studies Online Degree Programs Advising Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Courses Two-Year Template 2022-2024Graduate Course Descriptions Organizations UM English Graduate Organization Forms UofM Graduate Online FormsEnglish Teaching/Graduate Assistantship ApplicationGraduate Advising WorksheetGraduate Independent Study FormThesis Hour Registration and Prospectus FormDissertation Hour Registration Form Graduate Catalog Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English Graduate Students Financial Aid English Assistantships and Financial Aid Graduate students in the Department of English are encouraged to pursue the following means of obtaining financial support: Graduate Assistantships through our Department - See information below regarding policies and the application process. Assistantships, awards and fellowships through the Graduate School - Students are strongly encouraged to apply for any award or fellowship for which they are eligible, both as an incoming student and as a returning student. Financial Aid Department of English Awards - Each spring, students are encouraged to apply for a number of scholarships and financial stipends presented at our annual Awards Day ceremony. [Information forthcoming.] The Department of English offers a limited number of Graduate Assistantships in either departmental service, research, or teaching. These assistantships carry stipends in addition to the remission of University tuition and fees. Students must have completed 18 hours of graduate work in English in order to qualify as Teaching Assistants (TAs). TAs normally teach two sections of composition. A very limited number of Graduate Assistantships (GAs) are available for those students who have not completed this requirement. GAs work an average of 20 hours per week in research and teaching roles for department faculty and staff. All students must apply by March 1 to be considered for an assistantship. Please note that this application is separate from the admission application, although you may submit both to the English Graduate Office at the same time if you wish. Assistantship Application (.pdf) Key Policies: Assistantships are typically awarded for one academic year and are eligible for renewal upon successful completion of duties. Support time limits vary with degree program, transfer credits and the availability of departmental funds. Graduate Assistants are expected to carry a nine-hour load every semester. Students are encouraged to consult with their advisors in making course selections. In order to qualify to teach in the Department of English students must take ENGL 7003 Theory and Practice in Teaching Composition concurrent with their first teaching assignment. All non-native speakers of English must take the SPEAK test and earn a score of 50 in order to be appointed as a Teaching Assistant or Graduate Assistant with teaching duties, including serving as a discussion leader or any teaching activity requiring oral communication with students. See the Graduate School's SPEAK site for more information. New Teaching Assistants are required to attend all orientation sessions offered before the beginning of each semester, generally one week before classes begin. All students who apply for Assistantships are encouraged to submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to be considered for Work Study funding. Contact the Department of English Graduate Office at (901) 678-1448 or smellis@memphis.edu if you have any questions about the application process. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.