COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Materials Engineering, Master's Master'sMaterials Engineering All Programs College of Engineering A Master of Science (MS) in materials engineering from Wichita State will equip you with the skills and knowledge to leverage fundamental materials properties in the design process. The program is ideal for practicing engineers from many disciplines who are looking to receive advanced training in a wide range of materials, from composites to biomaterials. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how materials engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program In addition to the general admission requirements, admission to the materials engineering program requires: An undergraduate degree in engineering, physical sciences or related field Minimum GPA of 3.00 in all undergraduate coursework Depending upon the applicant's undergraduate education, additional undergraduate courses may be need to be completed as prerequisites For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Summer internship propels engineering senior forward Before her senior year, Amy McClain already had her foot in the door, having spent the summer interning at a Kansas City engineering firm. It was a competitive process, but being part of such a strong program as a mechanical engineering major at WSU gave Amy the skills and connections to get the job. “Apply, apply, apply to all the internship programs out there. Having experience is vital for job searches in the industry.” Curriculum The MS in materials engineering curriculum is designed to give students maximum flexibility to tailor courses to their professional goals. Students must complete at least three core courses from the set of core courses and approximately eight core and technical elective courses. As a course-only master’s program, no comprehensive exit examination is required for completion of this degree. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Mechanical Engineering (Master's) Industrial Engineering (Master's) Biomedical Engineering (Master's) Aerospace Engineering (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©