Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Tours Home Alumni Travel Traveler Testimonials Traveler Testimonials Close Menu Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us We were impressed by every aspect of the tour. This was our first tour, and we couldn’t have been more pleased with the trip…We have always planned our own travel, but now have a whole new attitude about group tours. We will be back. Randy, ’67 & Susan, ’68, Everyone on the trip combined to make it noteworthy. Each person adds their own spice and the fun was contagious. I have already been touting the benefits of group travel with UWALUM. It is the most relaxing, entertaining, and educational traveling I have done. I find the experience easy, fun and an exceptional value. I just wait for the perfect itinerary and sign up. Carol, Friend of UW We feel like we just took a UW class on the history of the Middle East. The art and sites are amazing. The UW tours are just the perfect trips for intellectually curious travelers who appreciate the guidance of an experienced tour company. Larry, ’68 & James, ’71, ’75, ’80 UW Alumni Tours trips we have taken (maybe 6 now) have all been terrific. They have been well-organized with knowledgeable, informative, and personable guides, congenial groups, and interesting experiences. I have learned a lot and had a lot of fun on these trips. Jo Ann & Chris, Friends of UW As honorary UW travelers, we are always made to feel a part of the group. Your alumni are the best with which to travel. Thanks for letting us be a part of a wonderful travel program. These tours are a learning adventure incorporating seeing the world and learning about other cultures. We also appreciate interacting with other seasoned travelers and learning from each other. John & Maria, Friends of UW Traveling with people with a common interest (UW) was a benefit for getting to know fellow travelers. Traveling with fellow Dawgs made me proud of the university and the connections I have maintained with it. Phil, ’80 & Candy So well organized, welcoming and planned out. Not to mention feeling like family. So many trips, so little time, so many choices. Bonnie, ’80 Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Friends & Family Welcome! You don’t have to be a UW graduate to travel with UW Alumni Tours! UW Alumni Tours Thank you, Travelers! UW Alumni Tours has made a donation to OMA&D's Study Abroad Support Fund. UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA