COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Convergence Sciences Initiative Section Menu Convergence Sciences Initiative home Town Halls Convergence Sciences Committee Collaboration Search Engine 2020 Convergence Sciences Initiative awardees Wichita State's Convergence Sciences Initiative empowers faculty, staff and students who span the disciplines to form research clusters that address our most pressing and opportunistic challenges. More than $1 million in grant funding available. Collaboration Search Engine Bringing the potential of Wichita State to bear Our society is being reshaped by factors including an aging population, growth of our urban regions, globalization, increased utilization of big data, and environmental and political stressors. At the same time, technology is rapidly advancing in exciting ways we can incorporate in our research and teaching. As Kansas’ only urban public research university, WSU is uniquely positioned to address many of these issues because of our location; focus on applied learning and research; and partnerships with industry. Working together across disciplines, we can make a substantial difference. Inaugural awardees of convergence sciences research grants named Wichita State has announced the inaugural awardees of the highly competitive President’s Convergence Sciences Research Initiative. The initiative is an effort to bring together the intellectual curiosity and strengths of faculty and students from a range of disciplines and give them the support to develop research programs that drive the diversity and growth of the Kansas economy while addressing global challenges. See the 2020 awardees Convergence Sciences Town Halls Join an upcoming Convergence Sciences Town Hall to find out more about the initiative and identify potential convergent research opportunities. See the Town Hall schedule Awardee Presentations Teams from the awarded Convergence Sciences Initiative proposals will give 10-minute presentations featuring their projects at 3 p.m., Friday, Oct. 23. See event details and RSVP Presidential Research Grants In order to focus the scope for grant funding, the Convergence Sciences Initiative has funded four projects aligning to one of three main themes, plus a "wildcard" that is not associated with the main themes. Successful proposals have been funded for three years, with a budget not to exceed $100,000 per year. The themes are: Health Disparities and Delivery Digital Transformation Sustainability Wildcard Successful proposals identified a societal problem or challenge within one of these themes that could be effectively addressed by combining and integrating efforts of researchers from different disciplines. The proposals did not simply envision individual researchers attacking isolated aspects of the problem, but rather groups of researchers bringing their individual expertise to a concerted effort. A valuable outcome of the group approach envisioned is the teaming up of experienced researchers with emerging researchers, and researchers from disciplines traditionally focused on external funding with those less so. Such group profiles were particularly encouraged. In order to receive full consideration, proposals had to address the following points: Need for a convergence research cluster The proposal should provide a compelling argument as to why the problem being addressed requires or will greatly benefit from an integrated collaborative effort from investigators in different disciplines and how the features of the proposal will facilitate that effort in a way that more traditional approaches would not. Existence of core researchers While a proposal will likely identify expertise and infrastructure that need to be added to the university in order to move the project forward, there must be a core set of researchers from different disciplines already present at WSU who will be ready and able to engage with the problem. External funding availability The proposal should identify funding agencies, especially federal government agencies, and industrial entities that would be expected to provide continued and sustainable funding to the cluster. Attention should be given to highlighting demonstrated or published interest on behalf of the agency to fund research in the area of the proposal. Curricular implications The proposal should indicate opportunities for students to engage in applied learning within the convergence research cluster. Additionally, the proposal should identify new academic programs, or the reimagining of existing programs, that will derive from the project, including certificates, minors, majors, and graduate programs Learn more about the Convergence Sciences Initiative Learn How to Submit a Proposal Download the Call for Proposals Convergence Science Committee Collaboration Search Engine 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©