Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Governance and Administration> Governance - General> Administrative Committees - Version 2 Administrative Committees Version 2 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG01.15.02 Title Administrative Committees Category Governance and Administration Sub-category Governance - General Authority Chancellor History November 27, 2013 Contact Chief of Staff (252-328-6105) Related Policies Additional References ECU Administrative Committees 1. INTRODUCTION Administrative Committees at East Carolina University are authorized by the Chancellor or the Chancellor's designee. Information about active Administrative Committees resides in the University Policy Manual. Changes to Administrative Committees must be made by the Chancellor or Chancellor's designee, with guidance from the Executive Council. These committees report to the Chancellor, or to his or her designee. 2. DEFINITION 2.1 Administrative Committees: committees, councils or boards, authorized by the Chancellor or another university administrator under their delegated authority from the Chancellor, that provide advice and oversight of various aspects of the university. 3. PURPOSE 3.1 Administrative Committees are advisory committees which serve as platforms for a diverse campus constituency to inform and advise on administrative decisions and actions that affect all aspects of the institution. 4. GOVERNANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEES 4.1 Authority: The Chancellor, or his or her designee, serves as the authority over membership, agendas, actions and communications of all Administrative Committees. The committees are required to report to designated university administrators under their delegated authority from the Chancellor. 4.2 Charges of Administrative Committees: Each Administrative Committee is designated a charge by the Chancellor or his or her designee. The charge for each approved committee is displayed on the Administrative Committees page of the University Policy Manual. Changes to the charges of Administrative Committees will be made by the Chancellor or Chancellor's designee as needed. 4.3 Adoption of new Administrative Committees: The Chancellor will review proposed Administrative Committees through consultation with the Executive Council and other appropriate administrators. Requests for new committees should be sent to the Chief of Staff. 4.4 Abolishment of Administrative Committees: The Chancellor, with advice from the Executive Council, has the authority to abolish Administrative Committees. 5. POSTING OF ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE INFORMATION 5.1 A list of Administrative Committees can be found on the East Carolina University website. The following information is available for each committee: - Roster - Purpose and responsibilities - Terms of office - To whom the committee reports - Standard meeting time 5.2 Website: The office of the Chief of Staff maintains the website and should be notified of changes that need to be made. 5.3 Reporting of changes: Administrative Committee rosters must be forwarded at least yearly to the office of the Chief of Staff for inclusion on the website. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier