Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Global Engagement High-Risk Travel Advisories STUDENT GUIDELINES FOR UNIVERSITY-RELATED INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL: For Graduate Students Procedures: Complete the Clemson Global Travel Registration. In preparation to do so, read the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory to the destination, and have available details of local accommodation and transportation, proposed travel plans, local contacts, etc. After submission, the petition will be forwarded to the HRTAG for review. Petition notification will be sent to the student and their supervisor/advisor. If the petition is approved, the student will purchase travel insurance and register in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program. Students traveling as part of their assistantship or university employment should complete the following. We advise to work on this concurrently while waiting for HRTAG response. Submit the International Travel Authorization Form for appropriate approvals prior to approval for work from abroad http://www.clemson.edu/procurement/documents/travel/foreigntravelrequest.pdf Follow the checklist for International Travel listed at: http://www.clemson.edu/procurement/travel/ In the Case of Changing Circumstances: If prior to travel, Clemson University can withdraw authorization for travel if the situation in the area changes prior to departure. If circumstance changes after travel has commenced, authorization to continue the travel will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Resources: U.S. State Department Travel Advisories OSAC Crime and Safety Reports CDC Travelers’ Health For additional information contact abroad@clemson.edu. For Undergraduate Students Procedures: Complete the Clemson Global Travel Registration. In preparation to do so, read the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory to the destination, and have available details of local accommodation and transportation, proposed travel plans, local contacts, etc. After submission, the petition will be forwarded to the HRTAG for review. Petition notification will be sent to the student and their supervisor/advisor. If the petition is approved, the student will purchase travel insurance and register in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program. Students traveling as part of their assistantship or university employment should complete the following. We advise to work on this concurrently while waiting for HRTAG response. Submit the International Travel Authorization Form for appropriate approvals prior to approval for work from abroad http://www.clemson.edu/procurement/documents/travel/foreigntravelrequest.pdf Follow the checklist for International Travel listed at: http://www.clemson.edu/procurement/travel/ Approved Undergraduate Programs Summer 2022 approved programs Fall 2022 approved programs Undergraduate student travel is still limited to a select number of education abroad opportunities. For additional information contact abroad@clemson.edu In the Case of Changing Circumstances: If prior to travel, Clemson University can withdraw authorization for travel if the situation in the area changes prior to departure. If circumstance changes after travel has commenced, authorization to continue the travel will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Resources: U.S. State Department Travel Advisories OSAC Crime and Safety Reports CDC Travelers’ Health Students considering organized study abroad programs more information is available at the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad. Guidance for faculty and staff travel can be found at the Procurement page. Home About Us Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships International Services High-Risk Travel Advisories Gift to Global Engagement Search Clemson Abroad Programs Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram