Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Other Drugs Methamphetamine What is methamphetamine? Methamphetamine (meth, speed, chalk, ice, glass) is a highly addictive manufactured stimulant drug that affects the central nervous system. It's a white, odorless, bitter-tasting crystalline powder that easily dissolves in water or alcohol. The drug was originally developed early last century to be used in nasal decongestants and bronchial inhalers. Although most methamphetamine is produced in "superlabs" outside of the United States, it is sometimes made with inexpensive over-the-counter ingredients in small, illegal home labs. The process of making methamphetamine takes about 48 hours and can be dangerous. Heating the solution produces toxic fumes and carries the risk of explosion, possibly resulting in burns or other serious health implications, including death. How is methamphetamine used? Methamphetamine can be taken orally, snorted, injected, or smoked. Methods of methamphetamine use vary by geographical region and have changed over time. Methamphetamine alters the user's mood in different ways, depending on how it is taken. If smoking or injecting intravenously, the user experiences an intense rush that lasts only a few minutes and is described as extremely pleasurable. Snorting produces effects within 3 to 5 minutes and oral ingestion produces effects within 15 to 20 minutes; both create the feeling of euphoria, without the "rush" felt by smoking or injecting. Why do people take methamphetamine? Methamphetamine gives the user a feeling of euphoria and enhances mood by releasing very high levels of dopamine. Some people use it to stay awake for long periods of time. Compared with other stimulant drugs, such as cocaine, the effects of methamphetamine last longer because a larger amount of the drug remains present in the brain longer. And compared to other street drugs, methamphetamine tends to be less costly. As with other stimulants, methamphetamine is most often used in a "binge and crash" pattern. Because the pleasurable effects of methamphetamine disappear even before levels in the blood fall significantly, users try to maintain the high by taking more of the drug. Some people are prescribed methamphetamine for the treatment of narcolepsy or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. However, these are very limited uses and the doses are much lower than doses that are typically used illegally. Short-term Effects Methamphetamine can alter judgment and lower inhibitions, and lead users to engage in unsafe behaviors. Because methamphetamine use can increase libido, it has become associated with risky sexual behavior. At low doses, methamphetamine blocks dopamine re-uptake, while increasing the release of dopamine, which can be toxic to nerve terminals. It's believed that this may lead to problems with movement, similar to those of Parkinson's disease (muscle rigidity, tremors, and a slowing of physical movement). Even when taken in small amounts, methamphetamine can result in increased wakefulness increased physical activity decreased appetite confusion increased respiration rapid heart rate irregular heartbeat increased blood pressure hyperthermia (heat stroke) Other effects of methamphetamine abuse may include irritability, anxiety, insomnia, confusion, tremors, convulsions, heart attack and death. Long-term Effects As use continues, tolerance for the drug will increase. This means that users will need to take more of the drug more frequently to obtain the desired effects. Withdrawal symptoms include depression, anxiety, fatigue, and an intense craving for the drug. Long-term use can lead to psychotic conditions, including paranoia, auditory or visual hallucinations, and delusions. These symptoms can last for months to years after methamphetamine use has stopped. For people with HIV, methamphetamine abuse can worsen the progression of HIV. Other long-term risks include: problems with muscle rigidity and tremors reduced motor speed and impaired verbal learning emotional and cognitive problems aggressiveness extreme anorexia memory loss severe dental problems increased risk of stroke For intravenous (IV) methamphetamine users, there is increased risk of hepatitis or HIV infection, and endocarditis (inflammation of the inner layer of the heart) Some, but not all, of the effects of methamphetamine use have been shown to be reversible. One study showed an association with abstaining from methamphetamine use and improved performance on motor and verbal memory tests. However, function in other affected areas of the brain did not show improvement, even after 2 years of abstinence, indicating that some methamphetamine-induced changes are long lasting. How do I recognize a problem with methamphetamine? Some danger signs are: More frequent use Needing more and more to get the same effect Spending time thinking about using the drug Spending more money than you have on it Missing class or failing to finish assignments because of methamphetamine Making new friends who do it and neglecting old friends who don't If you find it's hard to be happy without it Erratic or unpredictable behavior. If you find that you can't stop using methamphetamine, there's help available. Is methamphetamine addictive? Users of methamphetamine can become addicted very quickly. Methamphetamine destroys the brain's dopamine receptors and without the drug, users fall into a deep depression and have difficulty expressing pleasure. As use continues, users will need higher doses more often to combat withdrawal symptoms. Treatment for addiction requires comprehensive cognitive-behavioral therapy. Because the methamphetamine has trained users to associate all pleasure with the drug, they often need counseling to help them cope with their cravings, examine the issues that led to the abuse, and help them avoid situations that may cause a relapse Is methamphetamine illegal? Although it can be prescribed, nonprescription use of methamphetamine is illegal and its possession, use, and sale carry heavy prison sentences and fines and disciplinary consequences at Brown. See the Brown University Policy on Drugs on the Student Rights and Responsibilities web site. How do I help a friend who's having trouble with drugs or alcohol? If you are concerned about a friend's drug or alcohol use, this page contains information about different ways to help them. Resources If you or a friend are having trouble with drugs or alcohol, or just have questions, there is help available. Related Links National Institute on Drug Abuse NIDA drug pages have research reports, statistics and information on addiction. Frontline: The Meth Epidemic Stream this PBS program to learn more about methamphetamine in the United States, including the geographic progression of the epidemic, the drug’s impact on child abuse and neglect, and the regulation of over-the-counter drugs to decrease production. Also included on the web site is additional information on methamphetamine, FAQs, videos, maps, and other interactive features. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook