For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Libraries Operations Updates Navigation Libraries Operations Updates UW Coronavirus Facts & Resources UW Libraries Student FAQ Faculty Guidance 2022 UW Bothell/Cascadia Library COVID-19 Updates UW Tacoma Library COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Research Guide Libraries ventilation and COVID safety best practices Home / Libraries Operations Updates Info UW Libraries Operations Updates UW Bothell and UW Tacoma Libraries may have different operations updates. Check campus library websites for the most accurate information. Updated 5/25/22 Please note: Libraries hours are subject to change pending the evolving public health status, new protocols and/or staff availability. All updates will be posted here as soon as confirmed. Masks are strongly recommended at this time. UW Libraries is committed to keeping our spaces safe for our entire UW community. Everyone who visits the UW Libraries also plays a role in helping to keep UW Libraries safe (and open) by protecting each other. #ProtectYourPack! **ALL LIBRARIES, ALL CAMPUSES TO BE CLOSED MONDAY, June 13th for system upgrade, except Health Sciences Library. Action may be required to update library links to course materials. Take action before June 13th. See instructions for link updates. **Odegaard Writing and Research Center- help appointments will be offered ONLINE ONLY for the remainder of the spring quarter -- view availability and make appointments. **Graduates- Congratulations! Be sure to read "Access for Graduating Students" below! Hours Spring Quarter - March 28 - June 10: See Libraries Hours for all locations Finals Prep: Odegaard Undergraduate Library will have expanded hours for finals: Tuesday, May 31 – Friday, June 3: 8am-midnight Saturday & Sunday, June 4 & 5: 10am-midnight Monday, June 6 – Thursday, June 9: 8 am-midnight Friday, June 10: 8am-6pm Interim (between quarters) June 11-20: Commencement Weekend: Suzzallo and Allen Libraries will be open on both days, Saturday June 11 and Sunday June 12, from 9am-1pm each day **Starbucks inside Suzzallo will be closed on Sunday, June 12. ALL LIBRARIES, ALL CAMPUSES TO BE CLOSED MONDAY, June 13th for system upgrade, except Health Sciences Library Tuesday, June 14 – Friday, June 17- modified hours: Suzzalllo and Allen, Odegaard, Foster and Engineering libraries: 9am-5pm Art, Built Environments, Drama, Math, Music libraries: 1-5pm Saturday & Sunday, Jun 18 & 19 – all locations CLOSED Monday, June 20: all locations CLOSED, Juneteenth observed Summer Quarter - June 21-August 19: See Libraries Hours for all locations All locations CLOSED Monday, July 4, Independence Day observed Why can't Libraries extend hours? UW Libraries workforce was significantly reduced during the pandemic and while we continue to hire and train for open positions, particularly our student workforce, current hours reflect the most sustainable schedule at this time based on Library usage data and available staff. As staffing levels stabilize over time, we expect to expand hours in the fall. Health and Safety Reminders UW Libraries is committed to keeping our spaces safe for our entire UW community. Everyone who visits the UW Libraries also plays a role in helping to keep UW Libraries safe (and open) by protecting each other. #ProtectYourPack! Masks are STRONGLY recommended, but not required. Masks are available for all staff and users at all public service desks and other locations across campus. Check your risk- Per UW health and safety protocols: stay home if you have any sign of illness. Cleaning supplies: All service desks have alcohol wipes specifically for cleaning computer keyboards and hand sanitizer available to all, with additional hand sanitizing stations at entry/exit points. See also Libraries ventilation and COVID safety best practices to meet or exceed COVID standards Service/Access Reminders Odegaard and Health Sciences Libraries require a valid Husky Card for entry. Group visits and tours: No Libraries staff-led group tours or orientations (including K-12) through Spring Quarter (June 12, 2022). Special Collections is offering in-person and virtual consultations by appointment only, including a virtual reading room! Learn more. Access for Graduating Students and Non-UW Affiliates (no current Husky Card) Graduating students retain off-campus access to online library collections and databases using Husky OnNet or the off-campus proxy until the second consecutive quarter (excluding Summer) in which you are not enrolled. Users with valid UW Libraries borrowing card/privileges: If you do not have a Husky Card, you can still request books from any UW Library with your UW NetID for pick-up at UW Libraries open to the public. Helpful Links Faculty Guidance - updated for spring quarter Student FAQ- updated for spring quarter Welcome Video learn how to access all of the resources available through UW Libraries Free workshops, exhibits, and community events Just ASK US: See all the ways you can connect and get help. The chat service is available 24/7 to help you find available resources, assist with research, and answer questions. ### Libraries Status Masks recommended but not required Odegaard and Health Sciences Libraries - valid Husky Card required for entry Appointments required to visit Special Collections No Libraries staff-led group visits, tours or orientations (including K-12) through spring quarter Get help anytime, anywhere 24/7 University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.