Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office for Institutional Diversity Menu Main Nav Office for Institutional Diversity Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message from the AVP Diversity and Inclusion Statement Allies of Diversity AHANA Faculty, Advisors, & Mentors History OID Newsletter Contact Related Links Notice of Nondiscrimination Programs New Employees Thrive @ BC Overview Affinity Groups Self-Identification Forms Programs Overview Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum Policies & Compliance Overview Discriminatory Harassment EEO and Affirmative Action Employee Grievance Procedures Federal & State Laws Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Notice of Nondiscrimination Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities Title IX Boston College Related Links Self Identification Forms BC Employee Handbook BC Policies Events Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Diversity and Inclusion Summit Home Programs Diversity and Inclusion Summit Programs Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum The annual Diversity and Inclusion Summit is a full-day conference addressing pressing issues related to diversity and inclusion at Boston College and in the higher education field. Save the Date: Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Cultivating a Culture of Inclusion and Belonging Wednesday, May 25, 2022 2022 D&I Summit Program Book In the spirit of St Ignatius, inclusion is measured by the action while belonging is the desired outcome. Boston College’s mission of building inclusive relationships across differences provides formative opportunities to enhance the quality of human interaction. Cultivating a sense of belonging as a catalyst for change strengthens hope, optimism, and resilience. As worldwide challenges continue to emerge and impact our campus community, it is vital for each of us to experience a sense of belonging within our common home. The summit programs will equip you with the knowledge and skill sets necessary for cultivating a culture of inclusion and belonging, moving us toward inclusive excellence. 2022 Summit Keynote Speaker Keynote speaker Rev. Dr. Jamie Washington, is the President & Founder of the Washington Consulting Group (WCG). WCG was named by the Economist as one of the Top 10 Global Diversity Consultants in the world. Dr. Washington has served as an educator, administrator, and consultant in higher education for over 36 years. He is the President and Co-Founder of the Social Justice Training Institute and a Past President of the American College Personnel Association (ACPA). Summit Schedule Morning Keynote Focus: Cultivating a Culture of Inclusion and Belonging Speaker: Rev. Dr. Jamie Washington Morning Educational Concurrent Sessions Interrogating Our Positionality & Values Toward Creating a Culture of Inclusion Presenter: Dr. Treniece Lewis Harris, Program Director, Master’s Program in Mental Health Counseling In this interactive workshop we will first identify our relative positions of privilege and marginalization as well as some of the values core to our intersectional identities. Even more, we will venture to ask ourselves whether some of the values and positions we hold most dear potentially exclude, ignore or even dehumanize the experiences of others on campus. We will use reflective practice, divergent thinking and small group discussion to facilitate innovative thinking about intentional inclusion strategies and assessments of relative belonging for our diverse learning community. Supporting LGBTQ+ Students from an Intersectional Lens Presenter: Caroline Davis, Director, Student Outreach and Support Services This interactive presentation hopes to provide participants a foundation to be able to support LGBTQ+ students from an intersectional lens. We will provide a basic explanation of important terminology and overview of the LGBTQ+ student experience, and also explore the ways that systems of power and oppression intersect to impact queer people’s lived experiences. Using that intersectional framework, we will explore ways to best support LGBTQ+ students. Addressing Diversity Issues & Challenges in College Athletics Presenter: Michael Harris, Director, Student-Athlete Academic Services & Athletics Diversity & Inclusion Designee Additional Presenters: Jade Morris (Senior Associate Director, Student-Athlete Development), Josh Beekman (Director, Football Initiatives), Kenny Francis (Academic Counselor/Tutorial Coordinator) This session will provide an overview of the diversity issues and challenges within college athletics, i.e., racism, gender inequality, and LGBTQ+ issues. This session will highlight shifts in diversity and inclusion within Athletics since the death of George Floyd, along with how activists such as Colin Kaepernick have shaped social justice and the 21st century athlete. Lastly, the session will show how BC Athletics has responded and sought to make meaningful change. Afternoon Panel Moderator: Shawn McShay, Assistant Dean, Graduate Enrollment Management at Boston College Law School Panelists: Richard Jackson (Associate Professor, Lynch School of Education and Human Development), Shawarma Cooper Whitehead (Vice President, Student Affairs), Burt Howell (Executive Director, Intersections), Katherine Gregory (Dean, Connell School of Nursing) Panelists will provide a story of cultural identity, and answer and discuss key questions such as, “How do you define a culture of inclusion and belonging?” “What advice would you give to others (or your past self) in cultivating a culture of inclusion and belonging?” Afternoon Educational Concurrent Sessions The Use of Restorative Practices to Develop and Grow an Inclusive Community Presenter: Corey Kelly, Director, Office of Student Conduct Additional Presenters: Peter Kwiatek, Associate Director of Student Conduct, Kristen O'Driscoll, Associate Director This session provides participants with introductory knowledge and skills in restorative practices and their ability to facilitate growth, inclusion and harm repair within the BC community. The Jesuit Catholic Call to Multifaith Belonging Presenter: Christopher Darcy, Associate Director, Campus Ministry Additional Presenters: Kelly Hughes, Campus Minister for Retreats; Emily Egan, Campus Minister for Arrupe; and Rev. James M. Hairston, Campus Minister for Multi-Faith Programs Boston College’s Jesuit, Catholic mission calls Campus Ministry to support students of all faith traditions and worldviews in their search for ultimate meaning. In this session, participants will learn about Boston College’s Multi-Faith ministries, the experience of students from various religious traditions, and practical tips to support Multi-Faith inclusion and belonging. Cultivating a Culture of Inclusion and Innovation through Human-Centered Design Thinking Presenter: Sunand Bhattacharya, Associate Vice Provost for Design & Innovation Strategies, Vice Provost for Research Additional Presenters: Maria Isabelle Carnasciali, Professor of Engineering at the University of New Haven Through this talk and interactive session, participants will have the opportunity to listen, reflect, discern and discuss next gen’s mindsets, habits, and outlook in the context of the future of learning using processes of design thinking, innovation and entrepreneurship to impact society at large through a human-centered approach.The goal of the session is to use design thinking tools and processes to spark dialogue and interaction in the context of BC's next gen learners with opportunities to take-away ideas to build upon and exceed student, societal and industry expectations. Afternoon Plenary Community of Practice Discussion During this conversation, our keynote speaker will tie the morning and afternoon talks together and engage Summit participants in a Q&A session. 2021 Diversity and Inclusion Summit 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Summit 2019 Diversity and Inclusion Summit 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Summit 2017 Diversity and Inclusion Summit 2016 Diversity and Inclusion Summit Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Catalysts for Change Wednesday, May 26, 2021 Featured Speakers: Vincent Rougeau, Dean, Boston College Law School Inaugural Director of the Boston College Forum on Racial Justice in America. Mara Hermano, Vice President, Institutional Research and Planning.Watch the Invocation by John Butler, S.J., Welcome by William. Leahy, S.J., Opening Remarks by David Trainor and Morning Keynote presented by Vincent Rougeau The 2021 Diversity & Inclusion Summit: Catalyst for Change hosted over 340 faculty and staff through a virtual platform. The day’s programs offered increased engagement while supporting personal and organizational actionable strategies for change. The theme of the 2021 Summit centered on “Catalysts for Change” identifying a catalyst as an agent used to cause or promote a change in the environment in which it is introduced. Diversity, equity, and inclusion change agents move towards intentional and proactive methods to create positive and sustainable change. Over this past year, the confluence of twin pandemics, COVID-19, and systemic racism, has reminded us of the work that still needs to be done individually and organizationally. As catalysts for change, we are committed to promoting and sustaining an inclusive environment that motivates us to be fully engaged in our community, enabling us to bring our whole selves in contributing to a just and equitable Boston College community. Download the 2021 Summit Program Book to review what made the 6th Summit great! (please be aware that all the resources listed on this page require BC Email login to access) Watch the Invocation by John Butler, S.J., Welcome by William. Leahy, S.J., Opening Remarks by David Trainor and Morning Keynote presented by Vincent Rougeau Watch Morning Concurrent sessions Music and Social Justice: Protest Music of the Past and Present Supporting LGBTQ+ Students from an Intersectional Lens The Intersection of Military Culture, Veterans, & Higher Education Watch Afternoon Panel moderated by Mara Hermano, with Frank Bailey, Ximena Soto, and Rafael Luna Watch Afternoon Concurrent Sessions How to embrace discomfort? Insights from neuroscience to excel in courageous conversations Decolonizing Special Education: AAC Considerations for Monolingual and Emergent Bilingual Learners with Multiple Disabilities Invisible Like Me: Amplifying the Voices of First-Generation Students at Boston College Review the posters submitted to the Summit Using Implementation Science with a Family Strengthening Intervention to Address Disparities in Access to Mental Health Care in Refugee Communities Draft Plan for Recruiting and Supporting a More Diverse Faculty in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Intergenerational Transmission of Trauma in Underserved Communities LSEHD’s First-Year Program, Experience, Reflection, & Action (ERA): Raising Environmental, Racial, and Social Justice Awareness in Predominantly White Higher Education Settings COVID-19 Impact on Women in the Workplace 2021 Assessment, Survey Results: Ease of Access to Academic Accommodations We Are BC Dining: Celebrating Diversity Through Employee Stories First Steps towards Change: Listening to Our Staff Trauma-Informed Response in College Advising Structure The Office for Institutional Diversity hosted Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Towards Inclusive Excellence on Wednesday, May 20, 2020, virtually via Zoom. The 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Summit invited faculty and staff to participate in a full day of learning, conversation, growth, and reflection. This year’s Summit featured didactic concurrent morning sessions on diverse topics paired alongside afternoon workshops focused on skill-building to bridge the gap between knowledge and action. Thank you to all who attended the 2019 Summit. We hope to see you again next year! The Office for Institutional Diversity hosted Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Transformational Dialogue on Wednesday, May 22, 2019 at Gasson Hall The 2019 Diversity and Inclusion Summit invited faculty and staff to participate in bold and inclusive conversations, interactive sessions and shared storytelling that encourage and promote transformative and self-reflective dialogue across differences and commonalities. Watch the Morning Plenary Session presented by Dr. Zareen Karani Araoz. This plenary seeks to address the foundational issues of cultural differences and cultural identity and values. How do differences arise? How can we better strive for excellence, in our professional and personal spheres and in our relations as individuals and in groups? The session is interactive, helping participants reflect on their own cultural identity, the values they hold dear, how they express them, and how they understand and deal with values and perspectives that differ from their own. Watch the Afternoon Plenary Session presented by Dr. Tiziana Dearing, Burt Howell, Joy Moore, and Catherine Wong. As we know, there is no one way to create and sustain brave space for dialogue, action, and emerging allyship. This interactive session highlights several different styles and approaches into transformative dialogue, so that the BC community can enhance its capacity for change in the midst of challenge and its resourcefulness in the building of lasting relationships across campus. Download the 2019 Summit Program to review some of what (and who) contributed to making this year's event great! Also remember to check out our hashtag on social media to see what participants found exciting or moving: #BCDISummit2019 The Office for Institutional Diversity hosted the Diversity and Inclusion Summit: One Community, Many Perspectives on Wednesday, May 23, 2018 in Gasson Hall. Thank you to all who attended the 2018 Summit. We hope to see you again next year! The 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Summit: One Community, Many Perspectives, guided by Jesuit principles, focused on the multiple ways our community is building capacity to advance and sustain inclusive excellence. Watch the Keynote Speaker Address. Review resources from the Keynote Speaker. Watch the One Community Many Perspectives video. Watch the Guided Discussion. Download the 2018 Summit Program to review some of what (and who) contributed to making this year's event great! Also remember to check out our hashtag on social media to see what participants found exciting or moving: #BCDISummit2018 The Office for Institutional Diversity hosted the Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Learn, Reflect, Engage on May 24, 2017 Thank you to over 210 faculty, staff, and administrators who attended the 2017 Summit and made the event a success. We hope to see you again next year for the third annual Summit! The Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Learn, Reflect, Engage explored promising practices that contribute to Boston College’s commitment to enhancing a diverse, welcoming, and inclusive community that respects all and fosters dialogue within our Catholic and Jesuit tradition. Listen to the Keynote Speech! Download the 2017 Summit Program to review what made the summit great! The Office for Institutional Diversity hosted the Diversity and Inclusion Summit: Building and Leveraging Partnerships Across Campus on June 1, 2016 Thank you to over 170 faculty, staff and administrators who attended and made the event a success! The Summit focused on how Boston College contributes to the social justice mission of the Society of Jesus through our efforts to create a diverse and inclusive community by building and leveraging partnerships across campus. The Summit, open to faculty and staff, included and looked beyond, compliance to provide insight into the programs, initiatives, and relevant research related to diversity and inclusion, in the hopes of creating a continuous learning experience. Listen to the Keynote speech! Download the 2016 Summit Program to review what made the 2016 Summit great! Back To Top Back To Top Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street, Room 211 Brighton Campus 617-552-2323 About Thrive @ BC Programs Policies & Compliance Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College