COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Records Retention Schedule Section Menu What's New Chapter 1 - University Structure Chapter 2 - Academic Policies Chapter 3 - General Employment Policies Chapter 4 - Faculty Policies Chapter 5 - Vacated Chapter 6 - Unclassified Professional Employee Policies Chapter 7 - University Support Staff Policies Chapter 8 - Student Policies And Procedures Chapter 9 - Research And Sponsored Programs Chapter 10 - Environmental Health And Safety Chapter 11 - Facilities Chapter 12 - Budget Chapter 13 - Financial Operations Chapter 14 - Purchasing Chapter 15 - Central Services Chapter 16 - Physical Plant (Refer to Physical Plant website for operational guidance) Chapter 17 - Rhatigan Student Center (refer to Rhatigan Student Center website for operational guidance) Chapter 18 - University Police Department Chapter 19 - Technology Chapter 20 - Miscellaneous Policies Policies And Procedures Manual - Policy Control Access Tool Records Retention Schedule Effective Date: April 15, 2010 Revisions for Financial Operations, Human Resources, Registrar, and Undergraduate Admissions are effective January 1, 2020 Record Type Description Retention Period and Disposition Repository Academic actions Dismissal, exception reports, etc. Permanent Registrar Academic Honesty Code Violations Case file with findings of violation Permanent Campus Life and University Relations; Director of Student Conduct and Community Standards Academic records Broad record type that includes narrative evaluations, competency assessments, and other records submitted to Registrar's Office. Permanent Registrar Academic Search Records Three years from date of appointment. Academic Affairs Accounts Payable Records Documents related to payment for goods and services: vouchers, correspondence, invoices, ledger books and cards, etc. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Paper voucher copies are retained for one fiscal year then destroyed while the electronic version is kept indefinitely. The electronic version can be destroyed after three fiscal years. Financial Operations Accounts Receivable Records Documents related to the collection of payments due the agency: copies of invoices, correspondence, DA forms 32, etc. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Activity Report Records Internal documents used to compile statistics on agency activities: traffic reports, activity logs, etc. Retain two fiscal years and then destroy. Department of Origin Admission applications Admission applications submitted by students to Undergraduate Admissions Data from applications exist in Banner (SIS) indefinitely and written applications are imaged and stored electronically in Image Now (imaging system) indefinitely. Paper records are kept for three months before quality assurance testing is done and then shredded by an outside agency. Undergraduate Admissions (paper records); Banner and Image Now (electronic records) Advanced placement records, applications for admission or readmission, correspondence that is relevant, entrance exam reports (ACT, CEEB, et.al.) residency classification forms, letters of recommendation, transcripts – high school and other college Five years from graduation date or date of last attendance. Registrar; Admissions Office (domestic or international UG, GR) Advanced placement records, applications for admission or readmission, correspondence that is relevant, entrance exam reports (ACT, CEEB, et.al.) residency classification forms, letters of recommendation, transcripts – high school and other college Two years from date of start or application term. Registrar; Admissions Office (domestic or international UG, GR) Advertising contracts Agencies; newspapers; media University Relations Agency Director’s Files Correspondence, reports, budgets, etc. relating to the administration and operation of the agency. Retain until no longer useful, and then transfer to the archives for purging. Finance and Administration Annual and Special Reports General and specific reports on agency activities. University Relations; Department of Origin Applicant Tracking System (PeopleAdmin) Third party vendor that is a repository for electronic position descriptions, applications and job postings for positions. Used primarily for benefit eligible positions. No purging process in place. See also Employee Position Description and Perceptive Content (WebNow). Human Resources; PeopleAdmin Application for degree Online web app system tables Permanent Registrar Application supporting documents (e.g., application fee records such as receipts, ACT/SAT score documentation, Permanent Resident cards, application fee waiver requests, documents to facilitate exceptions consideration and more). Items submitted by students to Undergraduate Admissions to support their application file Items are stored electronically in Image Now indefinitely. Data from items are stored in Banner indefinitely. Paper records are kept for three months before quality assurance testing is done and then shredded by an outside agency. Undergraduate Admissions (paper records); Banner and Image Now (electronic records) Applications for Examination Standardized form developed by the Department of Administration-Division of Personnel to determine if an applicant to take an application is qualified to take an examination for a specific classified position. Retain three calendar years and then destroy. Human Resources Architectural Plans, Drawings, Maps, and Specifications Records documenting the physical plant of the agency. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer to the archives. Facilities Services Attorney General Opinions Opinions, letters of advice, copies of legislative bills, correspondence, etc. relating to the legal interpretations written at the request of an agency seeking guidance in enforcing, obeying, or interpreting the law. Retain in office five calendar years, and then transfer to the archives for purging. General Counsel Audit Reports Results of internal audit reports Retain minimum five fiscal years or as needed thereafter, then destroy. Internal Audit Automated Program Listing / Source Code Automated program code which generates the machine-language instructions used to operate an automated information system. Retain three system update cycles after code is superseded or replaced. Destroy. Information Technology Services Banking Records Bank statements, deposit books and slips, check registers, bank analysis statements. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Batch Transmittal Forms Completed forms used to transmit documents for mass computer input--includes both DA forms 199 and/or equivalent internal documents. Retain in conjunction with transmitted documents, then destroy. Information Technology Services Bid Records Documents related to request for proposals, bids, quotations, or estimates. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. They are retained in hard copy. Purchasing Board Packets Agenda, minutes, background information, etc. relating to meetings or a board or commission. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer one packet to the archives and destroy the remainder. President's Office Budget Preparation Files, Annual Documents used in the preparation of the annual agency budget: correspondence, draft budget requests, computer records, notes, and other miscellaneous materials. Retain five fiscal years. Contact the archives for appraisals--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. Finance and Administration Budget Requests and Appeals, Annual Copies of budgets submitted yearly to the state legislature for approval and subsequent appeals: DA forms 400 through 518 and associated supporting documents. Retain five fiscal years and then deposit in archives. Finance and Administration Building and Grounds Maintenance Records Documents associated with repairs and other maintenance to the physical plant of agency--does not include Work Orders and Logs (q.v.). Retain records of minor maintenance activities for three fiscal years, then destroy. Retain records of major maintenance activities for ten fiscal years, then contact the archives for appraisal--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. Facilities Services Business Procure Card Documentation Original receipts, logs, etc., detailing the types of purchases made by an agency through business procurement card procedure. Five fiscal years then destroy. Financial Operations Business Procurement Card Account Files This contains a hard copy of the initial P-Card application that was submitted to open the account along with any other correspondence regarding changes to the account status and memos to and/or from the account holder or budget officer regarding use of the account. Retain for the entire time that the P-Card program is live. Purchasing Call Logs One year – archive according to year Police Department Capital Improvement Projects Files Records related to construction projects: correspondence, bids, specifications, plans, drawings, reports, notes, etc. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer to the archives. Facilities Services Case Logs Permanent Police Department Case Photos Archive to CD’s Police Department Cases Misdemeanor unsolved Archive till statute of limitations plus five years - hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Catalogs Permanent Registrar Change of Course Forms Permanent Registrar Change of grade forms Permanent Registrar; Information Technology Services Change to Student ID Number Notation in Banner forms. Permanent Registrar; Information Technology Services Class lists Current records reside in Banner tables only. Permanent Registrar Cleary Act Logs Current plus two years Police Department Clippings Files Newspaper clippings compiled regarding agency activities. Retain until no longer useful then contact the archives for appraisal – if not accepted, then destroy. Library Special Collections Command Logs (radio) One year – archive according to year Police Department Commencement Programs Permanent University Conferences Committee and Conference Files Records relating to the establishment, organization, membership, policies, activities and accomplishments of internal, interagency, and advisory committees and conferences. Three calendar years, then transfer to archives. Committee Complaint logs In office for two days then to records section of archive Police Department Computer Run Scheduling Records Records used to schedule computer runs including daily schedules, run reports, run requests, and other records documenting the successful completion of a run. Retain until no longer of administrative value to the agency then destroy Information Technology Services Computer Software Licensing Files Documents proving the licensure and implementation of computer software programs by the agency. Retain five calendar years after the contract or end user license agreement (EULA) has expired, or five years after the software is no longer installed, then destroy Information Technology Services Computer System Documentation Records related to the development, implementation, modification, and use of computer programs and systems. Retain and dispose of in conjunction with associated computer programs and systems. Information Technology Services Computer Usage Logs Logs documenting computer system usage including but not limited to log-in files, system usage files, data entry logs, and records of individual computer program usage. Retain until no longer of administrative use to agency then destroy. Information Technology Services Consent to Release Personally Identifiable Information Forms kept on file, marked canceled if student revokes the authorization. Permanent beginning fall 2008. Registrar Contracts Legal agreements with individuals and organizations. Includes all association documents, e.g. DA-146 series. Retain until expiration of contract plus five calendar years, then destroy. Department of Origin Copy of Cases Five years - destroy Police Department Correspondence--Policy related Incoming and outgoing letters and memoranda that state or form the basis for policy, set precedent, or record important events in the operational and organizational history of the agency. Retain in office five calendar years, then transfer to the archives for purging. General Counsel Correspondence--Routine Incoming and outgoing letters and memoranda which pertain only to routine matters handled in accordance with existing policy and procedures: requests for information, letters of transmittal, etc. Retain until no longer useful, then destroy. Department of Origin Course Offerings Permanent Registrar Crime Logs Current plus two years – hard copy – dispatch area Police Department Criminal Background Checks Electronic link to Validity Screening Solutions (Third Party Vendor) sent to candidate/employee through checklist in On-Boarding process. Candidate provides required information and forwards to Validity. Background check required prior to the extension of an offer for employment, or as part of an offer of employment that is made contingent upon a successful criminal background check. Results of either 'Clear', 'Not Clear' or 'Flagged' recorded in Banner PWABCK by HR. Electronic copy of background check Is archived in Validity Screening Solutions database and accessible to HR. No purging process in place. Human Resources; Validity Screening Solutions Criminal Cases Murder and/or firearms solved 80 years destroy- hard copy prior to 1989; elect & hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Criminal Cases Felony Cases - convictions Archive till statute of limitations expires plus 20 years - hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Criminal Cases Felony Cases - solved Archive till statute of limitations expires plus 20 years - hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Criminal Cases Felony Cases - unsolved Archive till statute of limitations expires plus 20 years - hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Criminal Cases Misdemeanor conviction Archive till statute of limitations plus five years - hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Criminal Cases Misdemeanor solved Archive till statute of limitations plus five years - hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Criminal Cases Murder and/or firearms unsolved Permanent Police Department Curriculum Change Authorizations Five years from graduation or date of last attendance. Registrar Curriculum Change Forms Changes to courses and degree requirements approved by faculty in the academic governance process. Permanent Registrar Customer Survey Forms Surveys compiled on customer satisfaction with the quality of service provided Three calendar years then destroy. Department of Origin Daily Bulletins Three years then destroy Police Department Data Documentation / Data Dictionary Records Records generally created during system development or modification and necessary to access, retrieve, manipulate and interpret data in an automated system including data element dictionary, file layout, code book or table, and records that explain the meaning, purpose, structure, logical relationships, and origin of the data elements Retain three years after discontinuance of system and until all system data is destroyed or transferred to the new operating environment. Information Technology Services Data Systems Specifications Records necessary for using the system: user guides, system or subsystem definitions, system flowcharts, program descriptions and documentation, job control or workflow records, system specifications, and input and output specifications. Retain three years after discontinuance of system and until all system data is destroyed or transferred to new operating system then destroy Information Technology Services Data Warehouse (Legacy) This was the electronic system of record prior to Banner June 2006. Data accessible through WSU Portal. Under 'Quick Links' select Data Warehouse and then Warehouse Extractor. Human Resources; Information Technology Services DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty Document of the US Department of Defense issued upon a military service member's retirement, separation, or discharge from active-duty military. After original document is scanned into Webnow, it is destroyed. No purging process in place. Prior to 10/2011, hard copies retained in Employment File length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Employment Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. See also Employment File and Perceptive Content (Webnow). Human Resources; Perceptive Content Degree audit Scanned approved degree audits for those graduating fall 2009 forward. Permanent Registrar Degree, grade, enrollment, and racial/ethnic statistics Permanent Registrar Department Employee File Copies of documents in Department Employee Files associated with employment of specific personnel (applications, evaluations, etc.) maintained for convenience of reference. Any documents maintained by the department including performance, coaching and corrective action notes. Department maintains for length of employee's tenure. Send to HR upon separation. HR to combine as appropriate with Employment File. Retain Employment File for seven years, the first two years in HR. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. Department of Origin Diplomas/Diploma Lists Electronic document used in printing of diplomas since 2008 Permanent Registrar Disciplinary records Findings of violation and related case files Permanent where penalty imposed is probation, suspension or expulsion (dismissal); otherwise five years from finding. Campus Life and University Relations; Director of Student Conduct and Community Standards Electronic Onboarding Documents (People Admin) Electronic on-boarding documents associated with the employment of personnel. Forms consist of any document required by federal or state regulations or WSU policy. Retain electronic Employment File for length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. No purging process in place. Human Resources; PeopleAdmin Electronic Personnel Action Forms (ePAF's) Multiple ePAF's relating to employees jobs records and employment status. View access available to departmental personnel for their orgs. HR and Financial Operations personnel have view access to all. Designated personnel can view for six months through Self-Service Banner after which ePAF's can be found and printed if needed in WSU Reporting Services under HR - EPAF Reports in file titled EPAF00100 - ePAF Detail Report by Org. No purging process in place. Human Resources Electronic Repository for Miscellaneous Employment Documents - Perceptive Content (Webnow) Effective 10/2011, Perceptive Content (third party vendor) recognized as the electronic repository for all hard copies of OHR Forms, DD Form 214's and Position Descriptions which are still active. Documents were also scanned into the system for the following categories but have been retired: Medical Leave 2011 - 2016, Shared Leave 2011 - 2016, Unemployment Claims 2011- 2014, Searches 2011 - 2017, Direct Deposits, Evaluations, Student Exceptions 2011. After original document is scanned into Webnow, it is destroyed. No purging process in place. Prior to 10/2011, hard copies of OHR forms retained in Employment File. Length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Employment Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. For position descriptions see also Applicant Tracking System (PeopleAdmin) and Employee Position Description. For unemployment claims see also Unemployment Claims Records. For Shared Leave see also Shared Leave Program Form. For medical record see also Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). Human Resources; Perceptive Content Employee Notary Files Notary certification documents compiled on employees. Proof of certification is part of the Employee Personnel File. These files are the office copy. Retain information until superseded or three calendar years, and then destroy. Department of Origin Employee Personnel Files Documents associated with the employment of specific personnel: employee evaluation forms, applications for employment, INS Residence Status forms, and other personnel materials. Retain original file or abstracted work history for length of employee's tenure, plus ten years, then transfer files to archives. Deposit in archives. Human Resources – Classified, and Unclassified; Division – Unclassified; Academic Affairs – Faculty Employee Personnel Files--Office Copies Copies of documents in agency's Employee Personnel Files associated with employment of specific personnel (applications, evaluations, etc.) maintained for convenience of reference. Retain for length of employee's tenure plus five calendar years, then destroy. Department of Origin Employee Position Description Most benefit eligible employees position descriptions are currently retained in our Applicant Tracking System (PeopleAdmin) If provided, PD’s and supporting documents are retained in Employment File. Retain Employment File length of employee’s tenure, plus seven years. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. See also Applicant Tracking System (PeopleAdmin) and Perceptive Content (Webnow). Human Resources Employee Position Descriptions Formal descriptions of duties and other characteristics of particular employment positions: DA forms 281-2 and supporting documents. Retain until superseded plus three years, then destroy. Human Resources Employee Time Report Records Recording documenting time worked by individual employees on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis: time sheets, time cards, attendance reports, absence reports, sign-in/out sheets, etc. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. (Revised 5/21/2004 per WSU General Counsel.) Department of Origin Employee Training Course Materials HR training materials such as Service Standards Training, New Leader Orientation, Diversity in Action Program, etc. used for employee training programs. Retain active and inactive training program copies in electronic file on HR Office Shared (S:) Drive titled Training Materials. Human Resources; myTraining Employee Training Records Reports and transcripts relating HR training programs. Transcript record of courses completed through the myTraining learning management system (effective 6/16) is retained for review by system administrator or by an active employee until end of employment. No purging process in place. See also Employee Training Course Materials. Human Resources; myTraining Employee Withholding Allowance Certificates Internal Revenue Service W-4 forms completed by employees to establish rate of tax to be withheld from paychecks. Retain until no longer in effect, then destroy provided four years have passed since date tax was due or paid (whichever is later.) Financial Operations Payroll Department Employee Withholding Allowance Certificates State of Kansas K-4 forms completed by employees to establish rate of tax to be withheld from paychecks. Retain until no longer in effect, then destroy provided four years have passed since date tax was due or paid (whichever is later.) Financial Operations Payroll Department Employee Withholding Allowance Certificates Internal Revenue Service W-4 forms completed by employees to establish rate of tax to be withheld from paychecks. Retain until no longer in effect, then destroy provided four years have passed since date tax was due or paid (whichever is later.) Human Resources Employment Applications--Not Hired DA forms 203 and supplementary materials submitted by unsuccessful applicants for employment. Retain three calendar years and then destroy. Human Resources / Academic Affairs – faculty; Unclassified - Division Employment Eligibility Verification Form Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) form I-9 completed by the employee verifying eligibility to work in the United States. Retain for length of employee tenure plus three years, and then destroy. Human Resources Employment File Hard copy documents associated with the employment of personnel. Forms consist of any document required by federal or state regulations or WSU policy. Retain Employment File for length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines End of Term Processing output documents List of students and the changes made to their record at End of Term due to Banner jobs run for incomplete grading, repeat courses and academic standing Five years from end of term. Registrar Enrollment Verifications One year Registrar Equal Employment Opportunity Grievance Files Documents related to discrimination charges concerning employment made against an agency and subsequent investigations. Retain five years after grievance is settled, then transfer to the archives. Institutional Equity and Compliance Equal Employment Opportunity Plans Documents related to agency compliance with laws regulations concerning EEO/AA plans including the agency characteristics plan. Retain five calendar years and then deposit in archives. Institutional Equity and Compliance Equipment Maintenance and Ownership Records Documents related to the legal ownership and maintenance of agency equipment: legal titles, warranties, maintenance logs, etc. Retain for the life of the equipment, then transfer to the new owner of the equipment or destroy as appropriate. Department of Origin Equipment Operation Records Documents related to the use of agency equipment (i.e. photocopy logs, check-out forms, use requests forms, etc.), including photocopiers, typewriters, computers, calculators, adding machines, etc. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Finance and Administration Expendable Items Supply Requests, Internal Documents used by subordinate organizations to order expendable supplies form central supply rooms. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Finance and Administration Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Hard copy of Family or Medical Leave Request Form, DOL FMLA Notice/Certification/Designaton Notice, Employer FMLA Communication, Doctor's Statement/Work Status/Work Release. Documents are retained in Employee Medical File in HR. Retained for three years from event, then destroyed. Combined with Employment File upon separation for remainder of retention period. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years (if applicable). Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. See also Perceptive Content (Webnow). Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines Financial Aid Records Applicants who enroll and receive Title IV Aid. Five years from graduation date or withdrawal date. If the student returns within five years of departure, then the record retention period will begin anew. Financial Aid Financial Aid Records Applicants who do not enroll or applicants who do not receive Title IV Aid. Three years from the end of the award year in which the student applied. Financial Aid Fringe Benefit Fringe Benefit (State and ICAA) Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Glacier Glacier - International Employee Information Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Governor’s Proclamations Copies of proclamations issued by the Governor’s Office related to various agency activities and functions Five calendar years then destroy. President’s Office Grad Health Details of health payments to United Health Care Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Grade Sheets Pre-Banner grade lists are retained in an imaged folder. Permanent Registrar Graduation Lists Permanent Registrar Grant Files (Funded) Variety of documents dealing with applications for federal, state, and private grants and the implementation of those received. Retain five years after the end of the grant period, transfer original applications and annual and final performance reports to the archives for purging, and destroy remaining documents. Department of Origin; Office of Research Administration Grievances No Cause findings: three years from determination. Cause findings, Permanent. Academic Affairs; General Counsel Group Health Insurance Benefit Plan Election forms. Pre 2014 retained in Employment File. Retain length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. Effective January 1, 2014. See also Group Health Insurance (Electronic). Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines Group Health Insurance (Electronic) Electronic benefit plan election and change request records. Records and documentation retained by the plan adminstrators of the State Employee Health Plan through KDHE. See also Group Health Insurance Member Administration Portal; KDHE Hardware and Software Documentation Records documenting the use, operation, and maintenance of an agency’s computer equipment including operating manuals, hardware/software operating system requirements, hardware/software configurations, and equipment control systems. Retain until the agency no longer uses related hardware or software and all data is transferred to and made useable in the new hardware/software environment. Information Technology Services Hearing and Meeting Transcripts and Electronic Media Recordings Records of agency hearings and other meetings: Transcripts, audiotapes, videotapes, notes, etc. Retain until no longer useful, then contact the archives for appraisal--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. Department of Origin High School and Previous College Transcripts Transcripts submitted by students to Undergraduate Admissions Transcripts are stored electronically in Image Now indefinitely. Data from transcripts is stored in Banner indefinitely. Paper records are kept for three months before quality assurance testing is done and then shredded by an outside agency. Undergraduate Admissions (paper records); Banner and Image Now (electronic records). HLC Degree Exception Forms (Faculty Credentials) Documents that lecturers meet Higher Learning Commissions (HCL) qualifications for teaching and listed as instructor of record. Skill and level recorded in Banner PPASKIL by HR. Original form retained by Academic Affairs. No purging process in place. Human Resources; Academic Affairs Hold or Encumbrance Authorizations Permanent beginning fall 2006. Registrar ICAA Payroll Details of ICAA payroll processing Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department ICAA Payroll Details of ICAA tax payments, W2's Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Imprest Fund Documents related to the administration and accounting of the imprest fund which allows an agency to use a local bank account as authorized by statute: DA form 152--'Checkbook Record--Imprest Fund.' Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Income Tax Monitoring Files Work papers, logs, reconciliations and payment logs possibly through accounting software and payment vouchers to ensure proper accounting and compliance of income tax reported to federal and state governments. Retain four calendar years after the tax date was due or paid then destroy. Finance and Administration Information Resources Management and Data Processing Agency IT plans, data processing services plans, strategic plans, and related records used to plan for information systems development, technology acquisitions, data processing services provision or related areas. Retain until superseded, obsolete, or replaced. Then transfer to Archives. Information Technology Services Information Technology Disaster Preparedness and Recovery Plans Records related to the protection and reestablishment of information technology services, equipment and data (back-up files). Retain until superseded by revised plan, then transfer to the archives. Information Technology Services Inter-Agency Work Orders Forms used to request and record the performance of services from another state agency. One fiscal year then destroy. Department of Origin Internal Memos – Policy Related Internal memos, e-mail and other correspondence that state or form the basis for policy, set precedent, or records important events in the operational and organizational history of the agency Retain in office five calendar years, and then transfer to the archives for purging. Print out all electronic versions as issued and transfer to the archives for purging. President’s Office or General Counsel Internal memos – Routine Internal memos, e-mail and other correspondence which pertain to routine matters. Retain until no longer useful, then destroy Department of Origin International Student Forms Visa documentation, etc. Five years Registrar; International Education Inventory Records, Expendable Property Records of receipts, disbursements, and balances of office supplies and other expendable inventory materials. Retain for three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Inventory Records, Non-Expendable Property Records related to capital equipment inventory management: DA forms 80 through 83, computer reports from the Department of Administration, internal documents, correspondence, etc. Retain until superseded by new inventory plus three fiscal years, then destroy. Financial Operations Investigative files – Felony 20 years – destroy Police Department Investigative Files – Misdemeanor Ten years – destroy Police Department Investigative Files – Traffic Two years – destroy Police Department Job Analysis Questionnaire (JAQ) Position description analysis form created for CBIZ study in March 2015. The JAQ was written by the incumbent employee. In some circumstances this is the most recent version of a position description that exists. Saved in PDF file on the Office Share (S) drive in Human Resources. They are indexed by last name. No purging process in place. Human Resources Juvenile Cases Until offender reaches age 21 – destroy – hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present. Police Department Kansas Public Disclosure Commission Statements of Substantial Interest Agency copies of statements of substantial interest requested on a yearly basis and filed with the Secretary of State's office. Retain one calendar year and then destroy. President's Office Key Accountability Files Records relating to the issuance of keys, identification cards, building passes or similar instruments of access to agency facilities or equipment and maintained for accountability purposes. Retain three years after superseded, date of termination or date of expiration, and then destroy. Department of Origin KORA Open records request Permanent General Counsel Leases, Real Property and Capital Equipment Documents related to the leasing of real estate and equipment. Retain until superseded or inactive plus five calendar years, then destroy. General Counsel Leave Requests Internal forms used to request and authorize the taking of leave by employees. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. Department of Origin Ledgers, General General records maintained by agencies of financial reports and expenditures normally used to monitor, manage, and verify agency budget. Retain three fiscal years and then transfer to archives. Finance and Administration Legislation Reference Files Copies of bills, drafts of legislation, copies of statutes, notes, correspondence, and other miscellaneous documents related to various legislative activities. Retain until no longer useful, then contact the archives for appraisal--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. President’s Office; Governmental Relations; General Counsel; Provost Letters of recommendation Until date of admission. Registrar Life Insurance Beneficiary Forms - KBOR Beneficiary forms for basic/opitonal group life insurance for KBOR participants. Does not designate retirement account beneficiaries Retain original in Employment File. Retain length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. No electronic record is maintained. Multiple copies may be present if employee submits updated beneficiary designation forms. Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines Litigation Case Files Correspondence, court documents, research materials, reports, press releases, etc. Documenting agency litigation activities. Retain precedent-setting litigation records no scheduled by agency specific schedule five years after case is closed then transfer to the archives for purging. Retain other litigation records five years after case is closed, then destroy. General Counsel Long Term Disability Employees Employment Files of employees that qualify for Long Term Disability. Retain length of employee's tenure, plus seven years after qualifying event. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines Mailing Lists Lists of names and addresses to whom mail is regularly sent. Retain until updated, then destroy. Department of Origin Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) Documents relating to the precautions taken for the safe handling of the various hazardous chemicals used in the routine operation of the facility. Retain until superseded or hazardous chemical is no longer on site, then destroy as required by 29 CFR 1910.1200 Environmental Health and Safety Memoranda of Understanding or Agreement, Inter-Agency Formal agreements reached between state, local, and/or federal agencies. Retain until agreement becomes inactive plus five calendar years, then contact the archives for appraisal--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. General Counsel Minutes Proceedings of regular or special meetings of committees, commissions, and other standing or ad hoc organizations. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer to the archives. Committee Miscellaneous & Accident cases Accident Reports Five years – destroy – hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Miscellaneous & Accident cases Sick and Cared for Cases Three years – destroy – hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to 2006; hard copy only to present Police Department Miscellaneous & Accident cases Miscellaneous Cases Three years – destroy – hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present Police Department Moving Expense Details of Moving Expense reimbursement Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Name Changes Permanent Registrar NCIC Destroy based on criminal case schedule – hard copy prior to 1989; elect and hard copy 1990 to present. Police Department OHR Microfilm Film bearing photographic records of OHR forms for employees as early as 1956. Some of the forms include but not limited to: DA-220 (Report of Appointment), DA-202 (Termination from Agency), Employment Authorization, Loyalty Oath, Pension Record Cards, etc. Effective 11/8/2012 microfilm records scanned into Perceptive Content (Webnow) and then destroyed. No purging process in place. Human Resources; Perceptive Content Operating System and Hardware Conversion Plans Records relating to the replacement of equipment or computer operating systems. Retain one year after successful conversion, and then destroy. Information Technology Services Optional Group Life Insurance (OGLI) Optional group Life Insurance Enrollment and Change Forms Retain original in Employment File. Retain length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. No electronic record is maintained. Form faxed to the OGLI vendor for processing of enrollment and their records. Multiple forms may be on file due to changes over time. Human Resources; Vendors Organizational Charts and Reorganization Studies Records documenting planned and actual changes in an agency’s organizational structure over time. Retain three calendar years and then archive. President’s Office Outstanding Debt Copies of debt due to the University by students, vendors, or other organizations. Retain until paid in full plus one year. Financial Operations Payroll Adjustment Records Copies of documents and supporting materials used to make adjustments in agency payroll accounts: forms AR-9, AR-10, DA-10, DA10A, DA-21 series, DA-171 through 177, DA-251 through 262. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Payroll Deduction Authorization Records, General. Documents used to authorize various deductions from an employee's pay: United Way, Heskett Center, Foundation Gifts, Child Development Center (CDC), tickets for Athletics, SASO, Advanced Dentistry. Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Union Dues Documents used to authorize deductions for union dues. Retain until superseded or no longer in effect plus one calendar year, then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Payroll Direct Deposit Authorization Records Completed forms used to authorize direct deposits of payroll checks in employee bank accounts. Retain until no longer in effect plus two years, then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Payroll Funding Redistribution Records Copies of documents and supporting materials used to make funding changes in agency payroll are help in payroll. Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Payroll Warrant Registers Monthly listing of warrant checks issued to state agency employees for payroll purposes. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Performance Evaluations-Classified/USS Classified/USS were originally done on paper. Copies of evaluations are retained in the Employment files. In 3/2016 USS evaluations were competed in the electronic system myTraining(Cornerstone). No purging process in place. See also Performance Evaluations - Unclassified Professional Human Resources; my Training Performance Evaluations-Unclassified Professional UP Evaluations were often not completed prior to 2012. A standard UP evaluation paper form was created in 2012. In 3/2016 UP evaluations were completed in the electronic system myTraining (Cornerstone). No purging process in place. See also Performance Evaluations - Classified/USS Human Resources; my Training Perkins Promissory Notes Master Promissory Note for Perkins borrowers Retain until paid in full four years. Financial Operations Personnel files, appointment letters and forms Six years after appointment. Academic Affairs Petty Cash Records Documents related to petty cash accounting: DA-71 through 73. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Photocopy Meter Reading Statements Forms completed listing the number of copies made, dates readings were taken, etc. relating to the leases on photocopy machines. One fiscal year then destroy. Department of Origin; Library Special Collections Photographic and Video Materials Photo-prints, negatives, slides, films, and videotapes. Retain until no longer useful, then contact the archives for appraisal--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. Department of Origin; Library Special Collections Photos & Photo releases Permanent University Relations Policy and Procedures Manuals and Statements Original copies of formal explanations of agency policies and procedures issued in collective manual or individual statement formats. Retain until superseded or no longer in effect, then transfer to the archives. General Counsel Postal Records Records concerning the use of the U.S. Postal Service and express companies: Mailing logs, postage purchase reports, registered mail receipts, express company receipts, mailing permits, etc. Retain for three fiscal years and then destroy. Post Office Press Releases Public information issued to the news media. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer to archives. University Relations Prior Authorization Report Spreadsheet for the annual fiscal year Prior Authorizations for Off-Contract and Sole Source approved purchases. This report is sorted chronologically by month, and sorted alphabetically by vendor, and sorted by fund type, and sorted by Justification Code. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. Purchasing Procedures Manuals Original copies of agency procedures issued in a collective manual. Retain until superseded or no longer in effect, then transfer one copy to the archives, destroy the remainder. Library Special Collections Professional Organizations files Documents relating to membership/participation in professional organizations. Two calendar years then destroy. Organization Programs and Invitations Documents related to official agency functions. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer to the archives. University Relations; President’s Office; Department of Origin Property Disposition Records, Non-Expendable Copies of DA forms 83 and supporting documents used to remove capital equipment from the agency inventory. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Publications Internally produced newsletters, pamphlets, leaflets, and brochures distributed to inform a constituency about the activities of the agency. Retain in office one year, then transfer two copies to the archives and destroy the remainder. University Relations Purchase orders A hard copy of each purchase order is kept in the office of Purchasing of the file that has been sent to the vendor. An electronic copy of the purchase order only is available electronically in Banner indefinitely. This does not contain the additional attachments, such as a quote, a sole source, or other emails pertaining to the purchase that is available with the hard copy. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. Purchasing Receipts Records, Cash Records of cash received by the agency: receipt slips, receipt books, receipts ledgers, etc. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations; Department of Origin Reconciliation Records Documents used to reconcile federal, state, institutional Banner fund/orgs/accounts Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Records Management Records Documents related to the management of agency records including completed survey forms, inventories, and other miscellaneous materials such as correspondence or reference materials. Retain survey forms and inventories until superseded, then contact the archives for appraisal of other documents--if not accepted for transfer to the archives, then destroy. Department of Origin; Library Special Collections Recruitment Files Variety of documents relating to the recruitment process for hiring employees to fill vacant positions. Three calendar years then destroy. Human Resources/classified; Division/unclassified; Academic Affairs/faculty Recruitment materials Brochures and relevant promotional items used to recruit future students. Until no longer distributed to prospective students; thereafter items will be transferred to University Archives for review and disposition. Undergraduate Admissions Recruitment records Data submitted via inquiry processes by prospective students, schools, and other sources to Undergraduate Admissions Data from recruitment contacts/records are stored electronically in Recruit CRM indefinitely. Any paper records are kept for one year and then shredded by an outside agency. Undergraduate Admissions (paper records); Recruit CRM (electronic records) Registered Offender notification Permanent Police Department Reorganization Studies Records documenting actual and proposed agency organizational structure. Retain in office three calendar years, and then transfer to the archives for purging. President’s Office; Academic Affairs Request for Access to Records Documents related to requests for access to state agency records and agency responses prepared pursuant to KSA 45-218. Retain until no longer useful, then destroy. General Counsel; Human Resources Requests for disclosure received from legal entities Permanent Registrar Residency change documents Non-resident to resident Permanent Registrar Retirement Details of Mandatory and Voluntary retirement payments Retain four calendar years and then destroy. Financial Operations Payroll Department Retirement Plans All hard copies of enrollment paperwork completed by employees, beneficiary forms (KPERS), mandatory and voluntary plan enrollment forms (TIAA CREF and Voya Financial). Copies of employees KPERS Retirement applications. Documents are retained in Employment File for length of employee's tenure. Upon separation from employment forms are kept separate from all other employee records. Multiple copies may be present if employee submits updated beneficiary designation forms. Electronic copy uploaded to KPERS portal for KPERS' records. Retention Period is Infinity and Beyond. Archived in Hutchinson Salt Mines. Human Resources; KPERS; Hutchinson Salt Mines Revenue Bond files Correspondence, resolution, agenda, drafts, final transcript, etc. relating to the sale of bonds for capital improvement projects. Retain supporting documentation and transcript until bond is paid in full, then destroy. Financial Operations Safekeeping Prepaid Visa Cards Physical cards and documents/supporting materials used to manage cards Retain documents three fiscal years and then destroy. Retain cards until expired and then destroy Financial Operations Schedule change records One year from end of term involved. Registrar Schedule of Classes Institutional Permanent Registrar Schedules, Office Activities Internal forms and calendars used to schedule employee or office activities (calendars and appointment books, etc.) Retain until no longer useful, then destroy. Department of Origin Scrapbooks and Albums Collection of miscellaneous documents regarding agency activities. See comments. Department of Origin; Library Special Collections; University Relations Search Files Physical file containing documents related to the recruitment process for hiring employees to fill vacant positions posted in ATS, including the Form 1/A and Form 2/B as well as the interview notes from the search team. File may be scanned and saved electronically by the department/search chair, or stored electronically+ in the ImageNow software. Three years Search chair/hiring department - physical files or stored to the WSU network; ImageNow Security Records Security logs, sign-in sheets, security activity reports, incident reports, etc. relating to security provided for agency buildings and grounds. Five calendar years then destroy. Department of Origin Security Reports – Routine Reports relating to routine incidents that do not require further investigation Retain two years after the date issued, then destroy. Department of Origin Shared Leave Program Form Hard copy of State of Kansas Shared Leave Program Request form (OHR325), Certificataion of Healthcare Provider Form, any supporting documents provided by the employee, and Shared Leave Committee Approval/Denial Form and associated employer communication. Documents are retained in Employee Medical File in HR. Retained for three years from event, then destroyed. Combined with Employment File upon separation for remainder of retention period. Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years (if applicable). Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. See also Perceptive Content (Webnow). Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines SHARP Reports Computer reports concerning agency payroll issued on a periodic basis from the Division of Accounts and Reports to agencies in the Statewide Human Resources Project. Retain electronic or paper copy three fiscal years, and then destroy. Not applicable to the Division of Accounts and Reports. Human Resources Signed student Midwest Student Exchange Program (MSEP) Agreement forms Scanned and kept in student image file Permanent Registrar Speeches and Writings Notes, drafts, and final versions of agency related speeches, articles, talks, and other formal public communications published or given at meetings and conferences. Retain until no longer useful, then transfer to archives. Department of Origin Spoken English Screening Forms Assessment of English proficiency for lecturers and teaching graduates. Each evaluator (3) is required to submit a form on candidate's rating. Skill and level recorded in Banner PPASKIL by HR. Original form retained by HR. No purging process in place. Human Resources Strategic Planning Files Variety of documents relating to the strategic planning process for the agency Retain until no longer useful or superseded, then transfer to the archives for purging. President’s Office; Academic Affairs Student class Schedules Permanent Registrar Student Registration Forms Excludes Continuing Education non-credit programs Permanent Registrar Student Waiver for Right of Access Until graduation or date of last attendance. Registrar Summary Computer Usage Reports Summary reports and other paper records created to document computer usage. Retain until no longer of administrative value to the agency, and then destroy. Information Technology Services Supply Requests – Internal Documents used by subordinate organizations to order expendable supplies from central supply room. Three fiscal years then destroy. Department of Origin System Backup Files Copies of master files or databases, application software, logs, directories, and other records needed to Retain a minimum of 12 system backup cycles, then destroy. Information Technology Services System Users Access Records Electronic or textual records created to control or monitor individual access to a system and its data for security purposes, including but not limited to, user account records, security logs, and password files. Retain until no longer of administrative use to the agency, and then destroy. Information Technology Services Tape Library Control Records Records used to control the location, maintenance, and disposition of magnetic media in a tape library including a list of holdings, control logs, and other data regarding the destruction of the tape library electronic files. Retain until superseded, then destroy. Library Technical Program Documentation Copy of program/code/program flowcharts, program maintenance log, system change notices, original design documents, specifications, requirements, acceptance tests, and other records that document computer programs and the modifications made to the computer programs. Retain until all data in system has been migrated or destroyed, then destroy. Information Technology Services Technical Reference Files Copies of documents retained strictly for convenience of reference that are not part of official files: copies of external reports, studies, periodicals, books. Brochures, catalogs, vendor lists, etc. Retain until no longer useful, and then destroy. Library Telecommunications logs Registers recording incoming and outgoing telephone calls and fax transmissions Six months and then destroy. Department of Origin Telephone Accounting System Reports Computer generated reports listing all telephone calls made or received individual extensions within the agency Three fiscal years then destroy. Information may be in either paper or digital format. Telecommunications; Department of Origin Telephone Billing Records, KANS-A-N Copies of computer billings received from the Department of Administration and supporting documents concerning the use of the KANS-A-N telephone service. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Telecommunications Tenure or promotion dossiers If action approved, three years. If tenure denied, three years from end of term appointment. Academic Affairs Test Database Files Routine or benchmark datasets, related documentation, and test results constructed or used to test or develop a system Retain until the version of the system tested is no longer in use, and then destroy. Information Technology Services Transcript requests 6 months paper; 7 years from submission online Registrar Transcripts Permanent Registrar Transcripts – high school and other college Permanent Registrar Transfer Credit Evaluations Permanent Registrar Travel Request and Authorization Records Records related to employee travel: DA forms 25 (Request for Out of State Travel) and various internal documents. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Trustee decisions regarding academic personnel designated executives Permanent Academic Affairs Unemployment Claim Records Effective 2016, electronic repository for Unemployment Claims through Equifax Unemployment Module. Data accessible to HR. No purging process in place. See also Perceptive Content (Webnow). Human Resources; Equifax USCIS Form I-9 Employment Eligibility Verificaton Form A United States Citizenship and Immigration Services form. Mandated by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, it is used to verify the identity and legal authorization to work of all paid employees in the United States. Form I-9 must be retained and stored by the employer either for three years after the date of hire or for one year after employment is terminated, whichever is later. Remediation by Equifax. Human Resources; Equifax Vehicle Maintenance and Ownership Records Documents related to the legal ownership and maintenance of agency vehicles: maintenance logs, legal titles, warranties, etc. See comments. Department the vehicle is assigned. Vehicle Operation Records Documents related to the use of state-owned motor vehicles: MP forms 1a, 2c, 3a, 3b, 10, 20, and internal agency forms. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Department the vehicle is assigned. Vendor Files Records concerning purchases from specific vendors: invoices, correspondence, vouchers, ledger books and cards, etc. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Veteran Administration Certifications Five years from graduation or date of attendance. Veterans Services Visitors Logs Registers or logs used to record names of employees, outside contractors, service personnel, and other visitors admitted to agency facilities. Retain until no longer useful, and then destroy. Library; Ulrich Museum Voice Mail Messages Sound recordings produced by a voice mail system designed to leave messages for the receiver. Retain until no longer useful, then destroy. Department of Origin Vouchers and Requisitions, Purchase Copies of documents used to order and pay for goods and services: DA forms 100 through 109 and DA 120. Retain five fiscal years and then destroy. Paper voucher copies are retained for one fiscal year then destroyed while the electronic version is kept indefinitely. The electronic version can be destroyed after five fiscal years. Financial Operations Vouchers, Journal DA forms 35 series used to adjust financial account balances. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Vouchers, Receipts Copies of documents used to transfer funds received by agencies from individuals and organizations into their particular accounts: forms DA-3 series. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Vouchers, Travel Copies of documents used to certify the validity of claims for the reimbursement of travel expenses: DA forms 121, 122, and 123. Retain three fiscal years and then destroy. Financial Operations Travel Section Web Server Aggregate Reports Reports periodically generated from the Web transaction log data to indicate aggregate values and trends. Two fiscal years then destroy. Information Technology Services Web Server Transaction Logs Raw data captured from the hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) header during a Web transaction and stored in a log file. Six months then destroy. Information Technology Services Word Processing Files Electronic copies of documents produced with word processing programs. When electric documents are only copy, disposition must be on an approved schedule. When used to produce hard copy that is maintained according to approved schedule--delete when no longer useful. Department of Origin Work Orders and Logs Internal documents used to request and record requests for the performance of maintenance or other services. Retain three fiscal years then destroy. Facilities Services Worker's Compensation Hard copy of Employee Accident or Illness Report (Addendum to the D-WC 1101-A form), Doctor's Statement/Certification of Physician. Documents are retained in Employee Medical File in HR for length of employee’s tenure. Upon separation from employment forms are kept separate from all other employee records. Retention period is duration of employment + 30 years. Archived in Hutchinson Salt Mines. Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines Workplace Accommodation Request Form (ADA) Accommodation request form, record of action for accommodations form, supporting medical certification/doctor's notes for limitations due to a disability. Documents are retained in Employee Medical File in HR. Combined with Employment File upon separation. Retain length of employee's tenure, plus seven years. Employment Files retained in HR for two years after termination. Stored in Hutchinson Salt Mines for the remaining five years. Remediation by Salt Mines upon notification. Human Resources; Hutchinson Salt Mines 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©