Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Degree overview > General education General education The general education portion of your degree will be structured to a significant extent by the Areas of Knowledge, which consist of three broad areas of study: Visual, Literary, and Performing Arts (VLPA), Individuals and Societies (I&S), and Natural World (NW). In addition, you must also complete coursework in these areas: English Composition, Additional Writing, Quantitative & Symbolic Reasoning, and Diversity. Some colleges also require a foreign language. What is General Education? General Education requirements represent the foundation of a UW education and will support the advanced learning students will do the rest of their life. The objective is to introduce students to many new ideas, rather than training them in one specific subject, so that they are in a position to create linkages across a wide expanse of different topics and disciplines. Areas of Knowledge are meant to allow students to embrace the exploration of new ideas and work diligently to make connections, especially where none seem to exist. Basic Skills English Composition (C) English Composition courses emphasize how to organize and express your ideas effectively. In composition courses, you will refine your skills by rewriting your papers after receiving feedback on them. Learn more about your options for fulfilling your English Composition requirement. Writing (W) This is in addition to the 5-credit English composition requirement, you will need to complete additional Writing credits. Writing courses can be found across disciplines and must require 10-15 pages of graded, out-of-class writing, in the form of a longer paper plus a revision or two or more short papers. Learn more about your options for fulfilling your Writing Requirement. Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) Courses that satisfy this requirement focus on mathematics and statistics, or on formal and symbolic argument. These methods will enhance your ability to assess the relationship between ideas and judge information more critically. Learn more about your options for fulfilling your QSR requirement. Foreign Language Some schools and colleges require foreign language instruction beyond what is needed to be admitted to the University. If you are a native speaker of a language other than English, or if you had three years of a single foreign language in high school, you already meet this requirement. Otherwise, you must complete the third college quarter of a foreign language with a grade of at least 2.0, take a placement test that places you into the fourth college quarter of that language, or pass a language proficiency test. Learn more about how you can meet the Foreign Language requirement. Diversity (DIV) Courses that meet the Diversity requirement focus on the sociocultural, political, and/or economic diversity of the human experience at local, regional, or global levels. This requirement is intended to help you develop an understanding of the complexities of living in increasingly diverse and interconnected societies. Learn more about your options for fulfilling your Diversity requirement. Areas of Knowledge (AoK) The number of credits of AoK required by each college of the UW varies and some courses may count towards more than one AoK. Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) VLPA courses focus on questions of meaning and value in human life, as well as the effective expression of human experience. The term "art" is used here in a very broad sense and suggests practices and crafts of all kinds rather than simply Western studio traditions. Learn more about counting first-year foreign language as a VLPA. Individuals & Societies (I&S) I&S courses focus on the experimental study of human behavior both individually and socially. This includes the history, development, and dynamics of human behavior, as well as social and cultural institutions. Natural World (NW) NW courses focus on the experimental study of the physical world. Find classes based on General Education Requirements Use the General Education Requirements tool on MyPlan to find classes that meet the I&S, DIV, NW, etc requirement. Requirements By College and School Each UW school and college interprets the General Education requirements somewhat differently. See the requirements for General Education page to learn more. Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors 180 credits If you take 15 credits per quarter (autumn, winter, and spring), you will complete 180 credits in four years. Understanding Credits/Grades View our FAQ page to learn how credits and grades work. University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA