Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Bursar Office Policies Student Account Refund of Overpayments Bursar Office Student Account Refund of Overpayments Brown's preferred method for refunding your payment is electronic via ACH. This method ensures timely and accurate processing of your eligible refund. Please submit your refund request no earlier than 5 days prior to the beginning of the semester. Refunds will be processed once the semester begins and credit balances are a result of actual aid disbursements or payments on the student account. (Anticipated aid or memos are not eligible to be refunded.) Step 1: Setup an eRefund account at https://payment.brown.edu to receive a refund electronically to a U.S. personal checking or savings account. This can ONLY be done via the student's login. See our EBill & Payment Guide for help. This should be done BEFORE submitting this form. If no eRefund account is setup, a refund will be processed via paper check. This will delay the timing of your refund. Step 2: Complete and submit a Student Refund Request Form. Note: Refunds will be reviewed and processed once the semester begins. Refunds cannot be issued prior to the beginning of the semester. A refund is not valid when a credit balance is the result of anticipated aid or memo items. Home About First Year Students / New to Brown Student Account & Electronic Billing Tuition and Fees Financing & Payment Options Installment Payment Plan Policies ARP HEERF III FAQ Bookstore Purchases CARES FAQ Grad Guard Tuition Protection Plan Returned Student Account Payments Student Account Refunds Study Abroad Title IV Authorization Tuition Leave Refund Policy 1098T & Education Tax Information Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1839 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2484 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Cashier's Office Loan Office Financial Services Resources Bookstore Brown Dining Health Insurance Home Student Life