Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Our Faculty Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Lewis Ziska Lewis Ziska lhz2103_ziska.jpg Lewis Ziska Dr. Ziska examines the nexus of climate change, carbon dioxide, plant biology and public health, Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Office/Address: Biography Education Mailman Affiliations Editorial Boards Columbia Affiliations Academic Appointments Other Affiliations Honors & Awards Areas of Expertise Select Urban Health Activities Select Global Activities Back to Top Biography Lewis Ziska, PhD is a Plant Physiologist formerly with the USDA's Agricultural Research Service. Dr. Ziska has published over 100 peer-reviewed research articles related to climate change and rising carbon dioxide that address: agriculture and food security; invasive species; and plant biology and public health. Dr. Ziska was a contributor to the 2014 International Panel on Climate Change report (Food Security Chapter); the 2014 National Climate Assessment (Public Health Chapter); and most recently, The Impacts of Climate Change on Human Health in the United States: A Scientific Assessment. Prior to the USDA, Dr. Ziska was a Smithsonian fellow and later took up residence as the Project Leader for global climate change at the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. Dr. Ziska's work has been featured on CNN, MSNBC, CBS Nightly News, CBS' Sunday Morning, National Geographic, The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal. His most recent book is: Agriculture, Climate Change and Food Security in the 21st Century: Our Daily Bread. Back to Top Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers