COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Academic FAQ Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Frequently Asked Academic Questions (FAQ) What is WSU's academic honesty policy? Does WSU give academic progress reports? Who qualifies for academic recognition? What is Blackboard? How does WSU define a full-time student? How can I appeal a grade I received? How are graduation honors figured? What is a myWSU ID? What is the withdrawal/drop policy? Who is on campus to help me succeed? What are the General Education requirements for WSU? I want to take only one undergraduate class at WSU, where do I start? 1. What is WSU's academic honesty policy? See the Policy Statement in the Student Academic Integrity section of WSU’s Policies and Procedures Manual. Additional helpful links: Academic Integrity Handbook and Academic Integrity Flowchart Back to Index 2. Does WSU give academic progress reports? Instructors are strongly encouraged to provide early and regular assessments of student performance and to make grades available using the Blackboard LMS. While there is not formal submission of mid-semester grades, that information should be provided to students on Blackboard. Students should pay close attention to assignment grades, seek help from instructors and support offices as needed, and speak to their advisor when considering withdrawing from a class. Back to Index 3. Who qualifies for academic recognition? These policies pertain to undergraduate students only. Semester honors are based on the WSU grade point average. The Dean’s Honor Roll is composed of students enrolled in 12 or more semester hours of graded work who achieve a grade point average of 3.500 or higher for a semester. Students enrolled in 6 through 11 hours of graded work per semester who achieve a grade point average of 3.500 or higher will receive Academic Commendation. “Graded work” means any coursework for which the grade generates credit points -- see the Undergraduate Catalog. Back to Index 4. What is Blackboard? The vast majority of courses utilize Blackboard, a Web-based Course Management System. Students participating in courses using Blackboard will be required to have Internet access. Several computer labs on the main campus and at outreach locations provide access during certain hours on a first-come, first-served basis. Students new to learning online are highly encouraged to complete the introduction to Learning Online at https://www.wichita.edu/learningonline. Back to Index 5. How does WSU define a full-time student? As a general rule, a student taking 12 credit hours is considered a full-time student. For graduate students, 9 graduate credit hours are considered a full load. (Graduate students who hold a 20 hour per week graduate assistantship position are considered full-time if they are enrolled in 6 or more credit hours. Graduate students taking all or a majority of courses which carry undergraduate credit must meet the 12-credit-hour requirement to be certified as full-time students.) During the summer session, 6 credit hours of enrollment are considered full-time for international undergraduates and graduate students. Summer full-time for domestic undergraduates remains 12 hours. Visit www.wichita.edu/timestatus for all current and previous terms time statuses. Back to Index 6. How can I appeal a grade I received? The faculty at Wichita State has established a procedure to resolve disputes arising out of the classroom through the Court of Student Academic Appeals. The court hears appeals from students who feel they have been treated unfairly in grading. The court is designed to help resolve differences that cannot be settled in the framework of the student-faculty relationship and offers an important safeguard for students. Students should make every effort to resolve the problems with the instructor before filing an appeal. If resolution is not reached, any student may use the appeal procedure. Forms are available in the Office of the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs in 109 Morrison Hall. The general procedure is explained to students when they pick up the form. The appeal must be filed within one semester after the grade is assigned (excluding summer). WSU Academic Policies Back to Index 7. How are graduation honors figured? Graduation honors are based upon BOTH the WSU cumulative grade point average and the overall cumulative grade point average. Degrees are conferred with distinction upon students who have shown excellence in scholarship. The minimum standard for graduating summa cum laude is cumulative grade point averages of 3.900; the minimum standard for graduating magna cum laude is cumulative grade point averages of 3.550; and the minimum standard for graduating cum laude is cumulative grade point averages of 3.250. Any graduation honors listed in the commencement brochure are based on GPAs at the end of the previous term and are not guaranteed to be awarded. Honors on the graduation transcript and diploma will be based on GPAs after the student’s final semester. Back to Index 8. What is a myWSU ID? Each student is identified on the University’s computer files by a unique set of numbers and letters, called “myWSU ID.” Students are also identified on computer files by the 16 digit ISO number from their Shocker ID card. That number is not related to their myWSU ID, and students must have an ISO number to access certain services. Back to Index 9. What is the withdrawal/drop policy? When you drop a class in the first 10 business days of the semester (or equivalent period for shorter classes), it does not appear on your permanent academic record. Drop a class the 11th business day through the tenth week and a “W” grade appears on your record with no impact on your grade point average. The last day of the tenth week is the last day to drop a 16-week course. A “W” grade merely indicates that you were enrolled in the course and officially withdrew. Back to Index 10. Who is on campus to help me succeed? Click here to view the resources available to you as a student at WSU. Back to Index 11. What are the General Education requirements for WSU? Click here to view the General Education requirements. Back to Index 12. I want to take only one undergraduate class at WSU, where do I start? Students can be admitted to the University as a non-degree seeking student. Your options include high school guest, college guest or an open admission student. Click here to visit the Admissions webpage for admission requirements. Back to Index 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©