Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Baylor>Research>Behind the Research Behind the Research Dr. Dwayne Simmons, Baylor Biology Professor Dr. Dwayne Simmons's work on how the brain connects and communicates with the body is just one of many areas at Baylor University where professors blend groundbreaking research with student engagement in ways that shape the future. Dr. Annette von Jouanne, Baylor engineering professor After a 22-year career at Oregon State University, Dr. Annette von Jouanne felt a draw to equip students on a Christian campus and joined Baylor in 2017. Here, she specializes in energy and power systems, with a special passion for renewable energy. Dr. Bryan Brooks, Baylor Environmental Science Professor "In my mind, research is the purest form of teaching and mentoring." Go behind the research with Baylor University environmental science professor Bryan Brooks on how and why he engages students in his research. Dr. Byron Johnson, Baylor ISR Director Dr. Byron Johnson, director of the Institute for Studies of Religion, is just one of many Baylor University professors who blend groundbreaking research with student engagement in ways that shape the future. Dr. Dawn Carlson, Baylor Business Professor Research done at Baylor University by Dr. Dawn Carlson (BBA '89, MBA '91) on work-life balance has established her as an authority in the field. Dr. Heidi Hornik, Baylor Art History Professor Baylor University art history professor Heidi Hornik (and her students) discuss how hands-on work in the field inspires greater understanding of the material in the classroom. Meet More Researchers General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact