Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Sustainability Sustainability Menu Main menu Home Programs Academics Operations Engagement Legacy News & Events Mobile menu Home Programs Academics Operations Engagement Legacy News & Events Sustainability is Embedded in Our Campus Life Learn how CU Boulder demonstrates our commitment to sustainable solutions. Send Us Your Sustainability Ideas The imperative to address climate change has never been greater. … In discussing this issue with student leaders, we agree that the scientific evidence of climate change overwhelmingly demands action now to address the climate emergency. This means redoubling our resolve to unleash the immense human capacity for innovation and applied solutions at sufficient speed and scale. —Chancellor Phil DiStefano Read the Chancellor's Call to Action on Climate Change Latest News How to get local produce this summer Getting seasonal and local food is a great way to save money, eat healthy and support your local economy. Here are some tips for finding local food and produce this summer. Toward more sustainable wine: Scientists can now track sulfur from grapes to streams LASP-led mission to continue crucial climate record passes major milestone It’s been unusually windy this spring. Here’s why you should care For East Africa’s pastoralists, climate change already fueling violence, hunger Read more at CU Boulder Today Home Academics 474 related courses 329 faculty researchers Operations 26 LEED buildings 35% increase in waste diversion since 2011 Engagement 250 lab, office & hall eco-leaders 40 active student groups Highlighted Programs Masters of the Environment Environmental Engineering Research & Innovation Recycling Center Green Labs Green Buildings Environmental Center Ralphie's Green Stampede Housing EcoReps See All Programs Students Value Sustainablity We surveyed our student body, and here's what they had to say. Source: Fall 2017 student sustainability survey 95% of students say climate change is a concern for their generation. 80% of students consider their carbon footprint to be low. 95% of students say they would like to have a lower carbon footprint. 92% of students state that it is important that CU Boulder has a strong commitment to environmental sustainability. 40% of students report they chose CU in part because of its sustainability reputation. Committed to Higher Standards Here are just some of the goals set to make campus greener. Goal: Increase campus diversion rate of municipal solid waste (MSW) to 90% by 2025. Progress CU Boulder achieved a fiscal year 2018 diversion rate of 51%. Achieving success will mean utilizing the increased capacity of the Grounds & Recycling Operations Center, increasing our composting of pre- and post-consumer food waste in the dining halls, and improving campus infrastructure that promotes zero-waste behavior. Goal: All new buildings will meet or surpass a LEED Gold “Plus” rating. Progress In 2004, students at CU-Boulder agreed to use student fees to construct four new buildings, with the stipulation that all reached a minimum LEED Silver rating. Since then the university has mandated that all new buildings meet a LEED Gold “Plus” rating, which meets LEED Gold standards while taking extra measures regarding net-zero energy, waste reduction, and water conservation. Currently, 22% of campus operates under LEED standards. Goal: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, based on a 2005 baseline. Progress Greenhouse gas emissions have flatlined in recent years; since 2015 greenhouse gas emissions have been projected to decrease by more than 16,000 metric tons equivalent of CO2 each year. This is due in part to projects like the renovation of our cogeneration facilities and the installation of the 500 kW solar farm on East Campus. Explore by Theme Infrastructure Energy Food/Housing Transportation Waste Our Legacy Nation's first student-led environmental center Nation's first STARS Gold sustainability rating Nation's first student-led recycle program More About Our Legacy Campus Sustainability Map University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page