Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Title IX Policies Title IX Policies Addressing reports of sexual and gender-based harassment and sexual violence is a priority at Brown and one part of the multifaceted approach to reducing instances of sexual and gender-based harassment and sexual violence. Brown has established the Sexual and Gender-based Harassment, Sexual Assault, Intimate Partner Violence, and Stalking Policy (the Title IX Policy) and the Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy, to maintain an inclusive learning, living, and working environment where healthy, respectful, and consensual conduct represents a campus cultural norm. The Title IX Policy and the Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy ensure Brown has a comprehensive response to reports of sexual violence and gender-based harassment. The Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy is a complement to the Title IX Policy and provides a mechanism to address behavior and locations of harassment outside of the jurisdictional scope of the federal Title IX regulation. Both policies provide a prompt, impartial, and unbiased complaint resolution process. The Title IX Program Officer, who is the Title IX Coordinator for the University, oversees the development and implementation of both policies. Contact the Title IX and Gender Equity Office at [email protected] should you have any questions, would like to discuss support or protective measures, or would like to learn about or submit a formal complaint to initiate a complaint resolution process. Follow the corresponding links to review each policy and related complaint procedure. Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment, Sexual Assault, Intimate Partner Violence, and Stalking Policy The Sexual and Gender-based Harassment, Sexual Assault, Intimate Partner Violence and Stalking Policy is the mechanism to address prohibited conduct (i.e. Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Gender-based Harassment, Prohibited Intimate relationships, Retaliation, Sexual Assault, Sexual Harasment, and Stalking) that occurs: on-campus or any University controlled location within the United States, or in a University-sponsored program or activity off-campus where the University has control over both the person accused and the context in which the harassment occurred. Click here to link to the Sexual and Gender-based Harassment, Sexual Assault, Intimate partner Violence, and Stalking Policy Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy The Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy is the mechanism to address prohibited conduct (i.e. Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Gender-based Harassment, (Provision of Alcohol and/or Other Drugs for Purposes of Prohibited Conduct, Retaliation, Sexual Assault, Sexual Exploitation, Sexual Harasment, and Stalking) that occurs: On property owned, leased, used or controlled by Brown University, in a University sponsored program or activity abroad, or off-campus during an activity that is outside of the control of Brown when Brown 1.) exercises substantial control over both the person harmed and the person accused, and 2.) the effects of the alleged prohibited conduct have continuing discriminatory effect at Brown (i.e. an allegation of sexual assault between two students that occurred in an off-campus apartment). Click here to link to the Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy Home Staff What is Title IX Policies Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy Title IX Policy Title IX Council Online Reporting Get Help Culture of Respect Annual Outcome Report Sexual Assault Campus Climate Survey Oversight and Advisory Board Campus Updates Print this Page Share this Page Title IX and Gender Equity Brown University Box 1988 305 Horace Mann House 47 George St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2026 [email protected] For Immediate Help Call the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401-863-6000 for confidential crisis support and information. “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” —Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 to the Higher Education Act of 1965 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory