Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Department of Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Undergraduate Graduate Courses Diversity Research News Events Resources Search Home Astrophysics & Cosmology Thirteen full-time faculty members are joined by staff, postdocs, and students in research on astrophysics and cosmology. Learn More Condensed Matter The Condensed Matter research at Penn is organized around three broadly defined groups: Quantum Matter, Soft Matter and Living Matter. Learn More Particle Physics The Particle Physics group at Penn studies the fundamental forces of Nature, early universe cosmology and mathematical physics. Learn More Department News Spring 2022 SAS Student Prizes and Awards April 25, 2022 Herbert B. Read More Pondering the Bits That Build Space-Time and Brains April 25, 2022 Vijay Balasubramanian investigates whether the fabric of the universe might be built from information, and what it means that physicists can even ask such a question. Read More Congratulations to Jesse Hanlan for receiving the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) Graduate Fellowship for Teaching Excellence! April 21, 2022 Read More Congratulations to Joshua Chen for receiving a Goldwater 2022 Scholarship! March 28, 2022 Joshua Chen, an undergraduate in Marija Drndic's group, is among five Penn Juniors to be named 2022 Goldwater Scholars. Read More Decoding a material’s ‘memory’ March 18, 2022 A new study details the relationship between particle structure and flow in disordered materials, insights that can be used to understand systems ranging from mudslides to biofilms. Read More Congratulations to Gary Bernstein for being named a fellow of the American Astronomical Society! January 7, 2022 Read More Visit us on Twitter Tweets by physatpenn Diversity It is incumbent on us all as a global community of scientists to actively participate in the diversification of science, technology, engineering and mathematics by directly and intentionally engaging those groups that are underrepresented in our individual fields. Learn More Events Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page 1 / 3 Primakoff Lecture September 21, 2022 3:30pm - 4:30pm Physics and Astronomy Colloquium: "TBA" October 12, 2022 3:30pm - 4:30pm Physics and Astronomy Colloquium: "TBA" November 9, 2022 3:30pm - 4:30pm Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page 1 / 3 Spotlight The Balloon-borne Large Aperture Submillimeter Telescope (BLAST) Program The Balloon-borne Large Aperture Telescope (BLASTPol) and its planned successor, Super BLASTPol, are the first instruments to combine the sensitivity and mapping speed necessary to trace magnetic fields across entire clouds with the resolution to trace fields down into dense substructures, including cores and laments. Visit the Devlin Lab website Outreach The Penn Physics & Astronomy Department offers a variety of research opportunities that bring students of a range of academic levels to Penn. Learn More How to Do Things Need help? Looking for a resource? Find out who to contact for what. Get More Information This series of demonstrations, made in collaboration with the Physics & Astronomy department, was designed for use in the classroom as well as review materials. There are silent and narrated options for each demonstration. Department Fact The Physics and Astronomy department counts three Nobel prize winners in its family tree. Subscribe to our mailing list Donate Contact Us Department of Physics & Astronomy University of Pennsylvania 209 South 33rd Street University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6396 physics-info@physics.upenn.edu Phone:(215) 898-8141 Fax: (215) 898-2010 Mark Trodden Department Chair Ravi Sheth Graduate Affairs Chair Masao Sako Undergraduate Affairs Chair University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies University of Pennsylvania © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin