Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Academics Begin your Undergraduate Education at UCLA Undergraduate Education UCLA offers an astonishing breadth of academic opportunities. When you’re here, you can explore all of your interests to create a one-of-a-kind educational experience. Our curriculum features more than 3,900 courses, 130 majors and 90 minors for undergraduates. Beyond the sheer number of fascinating fields of study, our innovative curriculum and award-winning faculty will encourage you to expand the limits of what you believe to be possible. And our location in Los Angeles, one of the most dynamic and culturally rich cities in the world, opens up countless opportunities for personal and professional growth. Academic Experience Small, Interactive Classes Our compact class sizes enable you to work closely with our amazing faculty and get to know other students. Two out of three UCLA classes have 30 or fewer students. Even smaller are the 200 freshman seminars called “Fiat Lux” (Let There Be Light), each with an intriguing topic and only 10–20 students. 30 or fewer students in two out of every three undergraduate classes Interdisciplinary Programs If you are interested in academic disciplines combined in innovative ways, consider interdepartmental majors like global studies, environmental science or neuroscience — taught in collaboration with both medical school and life sciences faculty. Each of our general education “clusters” is a yearlong series of classes with a unifying theme, taught by an interdisciplinary team. Academics Original Research Over half of our students graduate with research experience in the humanities as well as social sciences, engineering and laboratory sciences. You can pursue your own research interests or work alongside faculty, participate in field research or explore library treasures. Some undergraduates even publish in academic journals. Research Internships In Los Angeles, home of Hollywood and Silicon Beach, you can intern at major tech and entertainment companies as well as government and community organizations. Our Career Center counselors are available to help with interview training, résumé critiques and finding the perfect internship opportunity. Internships Study Abroad Choose from 115 study abroad programs at select institutions in more than 40 countries. From formal classroom study to field research, studying abroad through UCLA allows you to fully immerse yourself in the global community. Study Abroad #15 Best Study Abroad Program Nationally Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept