Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2021-2022 Revised 1/12/2022 This calendar includes an addendum listing religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, contact the Office of the Chaplain. Graduate programs in the Cox School of Business, Perkins School of Theology, Dedman School of Law, and Research and Graduate Studies have different calendars. A comprehensive schedule of holiday dates that the offices of the University will be closed will be announced at a later date. Fall Term 2021 August 23 – December 18, 2021 April 5-August 27, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for fall 2021 continuing students for all undergraduates and for graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. May - August: Virtual Orientation experiences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. More information about Virtual Orientation is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214-768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. TBA: Residence halls officially open. August 22, Sunday: Opening Convocation, McFarlin Auditorium. August 23, Monday: First day of classes. August 27, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in December. September 3, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. September 6, Monday: Labor Day. University offices closed. September 8, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. September 10-12, Friday-Sunday: Family Weekend. September 28, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for undergraduate students. September 29, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before November enrollment. September 30 – October 3, Thursday – Sunday: Homecoming Weekend. October 11-12, Monday–Tuesday: Fall Break. October 24, Sunday: Midterm grades due for undergraduate students. November 1, Monday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. November 1-19, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2022 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. November 5, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). November 11, Thursday: Last day for December graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. November 15, Monday: Students should file for May graduation. The last day to file is January 25, 2022. November 23, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. November 24, Wednesday: No classes. November 25-26, Thursday–Friday: Thanksgiving holiday. University offices closed. December 1-6, Wednesday-Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. December 2, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for December graduate degree candidates. December 6, Monday: Last day of classes. December 7-8, Tuesday-Wednesday: Reading days. December 9-15, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations. (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). December 16, Thursday: Residence halls close at 10:00 a.m. for winter break. (December graduates should contact the Department of Residence Life and Student Housing). December 17, Friday: December Rotunda Recessional. December 18, Saturday: December Commencement. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. December 23-31, Thursday-Friday: University closed. December 25, Saturday: Christmas Day. January Term 2022 December 16, 2021 – January 16, 2022 The January Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas January Session and SMU-in-Taos January Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the January Term, December 16 – January 16, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. January 1, Saturday: New Year’s Day. Dallas January Session 2022 Note: Classes meet six hours per day, Monday through Friday. See Intersessions website for specific class information. January 3, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. Last day to file for graduation in January Term. January 3, Monday: First day of classes. January 4, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 6, Thursday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 10, Monday: Reading Day. January 12, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 13, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. January 16, Sunday: Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos January Session 2022 Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. January 3, Monday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. January 3, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. Last day to file for graduation in January Term. January 4, Tuesday: First day of classes. January 5, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 7, Friday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 13, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 14, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. January 15, Saturday: Travel day. (Non-Wellness class students). January 16, Sunday: Last day of Wellness classes. January 16, Sunday: Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. January 17, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. (Wellness student travel Day.) Spring Term 2022 January 18 – May 14, 2022 November 1–January 24, Monday–Monday: Enrollment for spring 2022 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. January: Virtual Orientation experiences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. More information about Virtual Orientation is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214-768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. January 1, Saturday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. January 7, Friday, : Residence halls open for continuing students. January 14, Friday: Residence halls open for new students. January 14, Friday: Spring Rotunda Passage January 17, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 18, Tuesday: First day of classes. January 24, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in May. January 31, Monday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. February 2, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Also, last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. February 18, Friday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before April enrollment. February 22, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for undergraduate students. March 14-20, Monday-Sunday: Spring break March 23, Wednesday: Midterm grades due for undergraduate students. March 31, Thursday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. April 4-22, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for summer 2022 and fall 2022 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. April 6, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). April 11, Monday: Honors Convocation. April 14, Thursday: Last Day for May graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. April 15, Friday: Good Friday. University offices closed. April 17, Sunday: Easter Sunday. April 21, Thursday: Students should file for August or December graduation. Last day to file for August graduation is June 6. Last day to file for December graduation is the last day to enroll for fall 2022. April 25, Monday: Last day to withdraw from the University. April 28-May 3, Thursday–Tuesday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. April 29, Friday: Last day for oral/written examinations for graduate students who are May degree candidates. May 3, Tuesday: Last day of classes. (Follows a Friday schedule.) May 4, Wednesday: Reading Day. May 5-11, Thursday-Wednesday: Examinations (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). May 12, Thursday: Residence halls officially close for non-graduating students. May 13, Friday: Baccalaureate. May 14, Saturday: May Commencement. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 15, Sunday: Residence halls officially close for graduating seniors. May Term 2022 May 16 – 31, 2022 The May Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas May Session and SMU-in-Taos May Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the May Term, May 16-31, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas May Session 2022 Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 16, Monday: First day of classes. May 16, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 17, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 24, Tuesday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 25, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 30, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. May 31, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos May Session 2022 Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. May 15, Sunday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. May 16, Monday: First day of classes. May 16, Monday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 17, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 24, Tuesday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 25, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 31, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June 1, Wednesday: Travel Day. Summer Term 2022 June 1 – August 3, 2022 The summer term consists of four primary sessions: Dallas Full Session, Dallas First Session (June), SMU-in-Taos First Session, and Dallas Second Session (July). Each primary session has different deadline dates. There are also four shorter sessions within the first and second sessions. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the Summer Term, June 1 – August 3, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas Full Session Note: Classes meet 2 hours, 15 minutes twice a week or 1 hour, 30 minutes three times a week. May 30, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 1, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 6, Monday: Last day to enroll, add courses, or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to file for August graduation. June 10, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 4, Monday: Independence Day observed. University offices closed. July 15, Friday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 22, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 28, Thursday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 3, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas First Session (June) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. May 30, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 1, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 2, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 6, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. Last day to file for August graduation. June 16, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 23, Thursday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). June 24, Friday: Last day to withdraw from the University. June 30, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August 3, Wednesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June A (11-day June Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 1, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 1, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 2, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 10, Friday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 15, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June B (11-day June Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 16, Thursday: First day of classes. June 16, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 17, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 27, Monday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 30, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. SMU-in-Taos First Session Note: Permissions of SMU-in-Taos is required for all enrollments. (Field Session) June 5, Sunday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 6, Monday: First day of classes. June 6, Monday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 6, Monday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 9, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 16, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 28, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 1, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July 2, Saturday: Departure of students. August 3, Wednesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas Second Session (July) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. June 6, Monday: Last day to file for August graduation. July 4, Monday: Independence Day observed. University offices closed. July 5, Tuesday: First day of classes. July 6, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 8, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 13, Wednesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 26, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 28, Thursday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 3, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. July A (11-day July Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 5, Tuesday: First day of classes. July 5, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 6, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 14, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 19, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July B (11-day July Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 20, Wednesday: First day of classes. July 20, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 21, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 29, Friday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 3, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August Term 2022 August 4 – 19, 2022 The August Term consists of one primary session: SMU-in-Taos August Session. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the August Term, August 4 – 19, with unique start, end, and deadline dates to accommodate the particular needs of the course. SMU-in-Taos August Session Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. August 3, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. August 4, Thursday: First day of classes. August 4, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. August 5, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in August Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. August 12, Friday: Last day for August Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. August 18, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 19, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August 20, Saturday: Travel Day. Major Religious Holidays (August 2021 – August 2022) Listing of religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, the instructor or supervisor may contact the Office of the Chaplain. Christian Christmas: December 25, 2021 Good Friday: April 15, 2022 Easter Sunday: April 17, 2022 Easter Sunday (Orthodox): April 24, 2022 Hindu Janmashtami: August 30, 2021 Dussehra: October 14, 2021 Diwali: November 4, 2021 Jewish Rosh Hashanah: September 6-8, 2021 Yom Kippur: September 15-16, 2021 Sukkot/Simchat Torah: September 20-27, 2021 Hanukkah: November 28-December 6, 2021 Purim: March 17-18, 2022 Pesach (Passover): April 15-22, 2022 Shavuot: June 4-5, 2022 Muslim Eid al Adha: July 9-10, 2021 Islamic New Year: August 9-10, 2021 Ashura: August 17-18, 2021 Mawlid an Nabi: October 18-19, 2021 Ramadan: April 2-May 1, 2022 Eid al Fitr: May 2-3, 2022 * All holidays begin at sundown before the first day noted and conclude at sundown on the day(s) noted. Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2016-2017 Academic Year 2015-2016 Academic Year 2014-2015 Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share