Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources About Academics Apply Research Give Info for... Search 75th Anniversary Events Mission & Vision College Leadership Former Deans Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Directory Request Information Visit Us About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 75th Anniversary Events Mission & Vision College Leadership Former Deans Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Directory Request Information Visit Us Leadership Former Deans, College of Engineering Dean’s Advisory Council $sLabel Home About College Leadership AAA Leadership 75th Anniversary Events Mission & Vision College Leadership Former Deans Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Directory Request Information Visit Us Leadership Former Deans, College of Engineering Dean’s Advisory Council Dean Pratim Biswas Dean, College of Engineering pbiswas@miami.edu (305) 284-5986 Log in to view address Professor Biswas is the Dean of the University of Miami College of Engineering. He is a faculty member in the Dept of Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering, with an affiliated appointment in the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences. Dean Biswas is a pioneer in his field recognized for applying aerosol science... Read More > Associate Deans Helena M Solo-Gabriele Professor hmsolo@miami.edu (305) 284-3467 Log in to view address Dr. Solo-Gabriele's research has focused on evaluating the relationship between the environment and human health. Her research has spanned diverse areas including evaluating the impacts of chemicals in the environment and evaluating the impacts of microbial contaminants in coastall zones. Her research on metals/pesticides has... Read More > Derin Ural Professor in Practice and Associate Dean of Student Affairs dnu3@miami.edu (305) 284-6385 Log in to view address Dr. Derin Ural joined the University of Miami, College of Engineering, Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering as a Professor in Practice, in 2017. She is the Associate Dean for Student Affairs for the College of Engineering. Dr. Ural is a Professor of Civil Engineering with specialization in Engineering Education,... Read More > Department Chairs Mohamed Abdel-Mottaleb Professor and Chair Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering mottaleb@miami.edu (305) 284-3291 Log in to view address Dr. Mohamed Abdel-Mottaleb received his PhD in computer science from the University of Maryland, College Park, in 1993. He joined the University of Miami in 2001. Currently, he chairs the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, where he is also a professor. His research focuses on 3-D face and ear recognition, dental biometrics,... Read More > Fabrice Manns Professor and Chair Department of Biomedical Engineering fmanns@miami.edu (305) 284-2335 Log in to view address Dr. Fabrice Manns serves as chair and professor of the University of Miami College of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering. Dr. Manns holds a secondary appointment in the Department of Ophthalmology where his research laboratory is located. He is the Co-Director of Bascom Palmer Eye Institute’s Ophthalmic Biophysics Center.... Read More > Antonio Nanni Professor Department of Civil and Architectural Engineering nanni@miami.edu (305) 284-3461 Log in to view address Inaugural Senior Scholar, Professor and Chair Research Interests Nanni’s research interests cover construction materials and their structural performance and field application, including monitoring and renewal, with a focus on the sustainability of buildings and civil infrastructure. He is the co-director of the National Science... Read More > Vincent K Omachonu Professor & Chair Department of Industrial Engineering vomachonu@miami.edu (305) 284-2372 Log in to view address Vincent Omachonu, an award-winning expert and author in the field of healthcare quality management, serves as chair of the University of Miami College of Engineering’s Department of Industrial Engineering. Omachonu received the IBM Faculty Award. He also is a master black belt in Lean Six Sigma Quality Methodology. He earned his... Read More > Qingda Yang Professor & Interim Chair Interim Chair & Graduate Director qdyang@miami.edu (305) 284-3221 Log in to view address Dr. Yang's research has focused mainly on developing multi-scale methodologies that can lead to realistic virtual testing and designing of complex heterogeneous materials and structures. My research has been funded by federal agencies such as NSF, NASA, AFOSR, ARO, NAVY, and DARPA , and industrial companies including Teledyne and Boeing. I... Read More > College of Engineering Directors Mariel De Moya Director, Communications mxd4353@miami.edu Log in to view address Read More > Jan Macko Director, Admissions jxm6311@miami.edu (305) 284-4773 Log in to view address Read More > Troy Ryan Thompson Director, Building Facilities t.thompson6@miami.edu (305) 284-4115 Log in to view address Read More > University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Engineering 1251 Memorial Drive, McArthur Engineering Building Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-2404 (305) 284-2404 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Support COE Give to COE Ways to Give Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices