Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News Professor, World-Renowned Singer Barbara Hill Moore Receives SMU Faculty Career Achievement Award Professor, World-Renowned Singer Barbara Hill Moore Receives SMU Faculty Career Achievement Award May 23, 2022 Barbara Moore Hill DALLAS (SMU) – With an SMU career spanning nearly five decades in the Meadows School of the Arts, Barbara Hill Moore has been named the recipient of the 2022 Faculty Career Achievement Award for her contributions to the teaching, scholarship, and service missions of the University. "I am truly honored to cap off my career at Meadows by accepting this wonderful award of recognition,” said Hill Moore, senior associate dean for faculty and Meadows Foundation Distinguished Professor of Voice. “SMU offered me the opportunity to teach, mentor, and advise many of the university’s biggest and brightest singing talents during my nearly 50 years here at the Hilltop and I’ll be forever grateful for that.” Hill Moore, a world-renowned opera singer and voice teacher, began teaching at Meadows in 1974 and served as chair of the voice department from 1977 through 1992. In the summer of 2011, she founded and began directing an international study abroad program, SMU-in-South-Africa, built around teaching and directing a class in musical theater hosted by the Opera School and Choral Academy (OSCA) of the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) in Durban, South Africa. “It is very fitting that we recognize the extraordinary ways Professor Hill Moore exemplifies SMU’s aspirations,” said SMU Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Elizabeth Loboa. “Barbara is precisely the type of faculty member who has – and will continue to – lead us in our pursuit of even greater academic quality. Her teaching, artistic, and service contributions have enriched our community.” Hill Moore has performed with orchestras throughout the United States and Europe. She was a frequent performer in Western Europe, especially Germany, where she sang in opera concerts and recitals, premiering the works of many American composers. Her most recent performances include Samuel Barber’s Knoxville: Summer of 1915 with the SMU Meadows Symphony Orchestra, Hector Berlioz’s Les Nuits d’Ete with the Sherman Symphony, Porgy and Bess with the Victoria Symphony, and solo recitals in Nürnberg, Hannover, Hameln, Heilbronn and Weilheim, Germany, as well as Numana and Ancona, Italy. In recent years, Hill Moore has focused on teaching, mentoring, and advising aspiring young vocal artists in classes, private lessons, and advisory sessions throughout North America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. Former students of Hill Moore have been featured with opera companies throughout the world, including the St. Louis Opera, Houston Opera, Dallas Opera, New York City Opera, La Scala, Salzburg Opera, San Francisco Opera, Chicago Opera, Paris Opera, Berlin Opera, Santa Fe Opera, Fort Worth Opera and Cape Town Opera. Hill Moore also founded SPIRITUAL VOICES in 1990, an ensemble of five soloists and accompanists that have sung throughout the United States and Europe, specializing in performing the earliest composed Negro spirituals and African American art song repertory. Hill Moore is a recipient of SMU’s prestigious M Award. She was named Meadows Foundation Distinguished Professor of Voice in May 2005 and named SMU Distinguished University Citizen in 2009-10. In March 2010, the South Dallas Business and Professional Women’s Club honored Hill Moore as a trailblazer for her excellence in education. Through the Barbara Hill Moore and Bruce R. Foote Foundation, Hill Moore awards scholarships to underrepresented students in SMU’s Graduate and Artist Certificate Programs that are pursuing an advanced degree in classical vocal study. Prior to her SMU appointment, Hill Moore taught at Millikin University in Decatur, Illinois, the St. Louis Public School System, and the St. Louis Archdiocese. She received a B.S. from Lincoln University of Missouri and an M.S. as a graduate fellow from the University of Illinois in Champaign, Illinois. ### SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty, and nearly 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities, and the world. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share