Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of the President About Mission & Strategic Plan University Governance Communications Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Governance President's Council Key Leadership Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Faculty Senate Staff Senate Student Government Association Alumni Association Board UofM Foundation Board University Transparency Take Action Review Presidential Communications Meet Key Leaders Contact the Office of the President Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Office of the President Governance University Governance "Shared governance" in higher education refers to structures and processes through which faculty, professional staff, administration, governing boards and, sometimes, students and staff participate in the development of policies and in decision-making that affect the institution. President's Council The President's Council is made up of the head for each division to include representation for all areas. The group establishes and implements goals and tactics, and secures the necessary resources, to drive increases in enrollment, graduation rates, faculty and staff productivity, fundraising, and service quality. Key Leadership Meet the executive leadership team, academic deans, and key leaders for the various areas that span our campuses. Board of Trustees Established in 2016, the Board of Trustees (BOT) is the University's independent governing board. It is comprised of alumni and local leaders, as well as a faculty and student representative. The Board is charged with the management and governance of the University, as allowed by and subject to limitations imposed by applicable federal and state law and certain powers and duties maintained by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission. Board of Visitors Founded in 1989, the Board of Visitors (BOV) was established to guide the university president in attaining excellence and national recognition for the University. Among its activities, the BOV works to enhance the image of the University and assists in the areas of programs, fundraising and strategic planning. Faculty Senate The Faculty Senate—consisting of 44 senators representing departments, independent units, and areas across the university—serves as a forum for the formulation of faculty opinion, a university-wide voice for faculty views, and the primary vehicle for faculty participation in university governance. Staff Senate The Staff Senate serves as an advisory body to promote the general welfare of the University, as well as act as a communication vehicle for University staff members. Student Government Association The Student Government Association (SGA) is the voice of the students. Composed of an executive, judicial and legislative branch as well as a senate and cabinet, members of SGA develops legislation to enhance the student experienced. Alumni Association Board of Directors The Alumni Association Board of Directors serves as the voice of all University alumni. The board collaborates in alumni fundraising and engagement opportunities. UofM Foundation Board of Directors The University of Memphis Foundation is a not-for-profit, tax-exempt corporation. The Foundation was formed exclusively to benefit the UofM and accepts, manages and disburses private support to the University. Related Offices Internal Audit Audit, accounting and fraud investigation professionals whose combined education and experience include accounting, management, finance, consulting, information systems and fraud investigations. Legal Counsel Provides timely and competent legal assistance to all areas of The University of Memphis to assist The University in accomplishing its mission. Government Relations and Policy Responsible for representing the University of Memphis as the liaison for elected officials at all levels of government. Office of Institutional Research The Office of Institutional Research supports data-driven decisions by compiling and analyzing information about the University for the President, the Provost, the University community, and external agencies. Office for Institutional Equity The Office for Institutional Equity monitors the University's policy on equal opportunity and affirmative action in employment and education. Corporate Partnerships & Economic Development Large organizations can be hard to navigate, so we created a "one stop shop" for you to get the answers you need and to create the connections that will move your company forward. Faculty Athletics Committee Serves as the faculty advisory group to the President on institutional issues related to intercollegiate athletics. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.