301.314.GOLF (4653) golf@umd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Facebook Twitter Instagram MAKE A GIFT Home Golf Golf Course Golf Course History Course Tour Scorecard Rates & Tee Times Club Tournaments Club Tournaments UMD Dogfights Twilight Golf League Instruction Individual Lessons Get Golf Ready Junior Golf Operation36 Post Your Handicap Scores Membership Membership Options UMSGA Members Student Information Outings Outing Information Outing Request Form Mulligan’s Grill & Pub Golf Course Outing Survery Friends Of The Golf Course Contact Us Contact Information Directions Golf Shop Hours We’re more than just a Golf Course Select Page University of Maryland GOLF COURSE Book a tee time The University of Maryland is the hub of our state’s higher education system. Many of the members and patrons are alumni, faculty, staff and students who view the golf course as the University community’s premier recreational venue. University of Maryland Golf Course… The Founding Steps… In November 1954, Dr.Wilson H. Elkins, President, University of Maryland, commissioned a study for a proposed golf course to serve the University community. This effort was chaired by Mr.James M.Tatum, the Athletic Director. His committee consisted of six additional members, including the prime instigator for the project, Mr. Frank H. Cronin, University of Maryland class of 1939, track, boxing, and golf coach, and present day member of the University of Maryland Athletic Hall of Fame. Also serving on the committee were Dean Lester M. Fraley, College of Physical Education, Recreation and Health; Mr. George O. Weber, Director of the University Physical Plant; Mr. Mark M. Shoemaker, University Landscape Architect; Dean Gordon M. Cairns, College of Agriculture; and Mr. Robinson Lappin, Director, Dining Hall, who had assisted Mr. Cronin in garnering support for the golf course… Continue Reading Our Rates Events Calendar Contact Us Golf Course Updates & News Mulligan’s Beer Dinner with Atlas Brew Works October 17, 2018 Sep 7, 2018 Last Update :9/7/2018 Mulligan's Beer Dinner with Atlas Brew Works October 17, 2018 Join Mulligan's on Wednesday, October 17 for the second annual Beer Dinner. This four course meal will feature a... read more Cheek to Cheek Returns to Jazz Night at Mulligan’s Aug 29, 2018 Cheek to Cheek Returns to Jazz Night at Mulligan's The band Cheek to Cheek will return to Jazz Nights at Mulligan's this Fall 5:30-8:30 PM. Call to make a reservation today: 301.314.6630 read more UMD Golf Course Butterfly Conservation Efforts Aug 22, 2018 UMD Golf Course Butterfly Conservation Efforts As of August 21, 2018 the UMD Golf Course has become a certified Monarch Waystation by Monarch Watch AND a certified Butterfly Habitat by the North... read more « Older Entries Rate your experience at the UMD Golf Course and you’ll be entered to win a free round of golf. Take The Survey University of Maryland Golf Course 3800 Golf Course Road College Park, MD 20742 Phone: 301.314.GOLF (4653) E-mail: golf@umd.edu Contact Information Link Follow Follow Follow © Copyright University of Maryland Golf Course Website by Lightspeed Privacy Policy Accessibility