Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science About The Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science is committed to supporting research and facilitating collaborations in brain science across the Brown University community. A top priority of the institute is to build on our collective successes in generating funding for brain science and strengthening departments. The institute launched in 2019 an ambitious 10-year strategic plan. Mission Our mission is to promote discovery and innovation in brain science by supporting a diverse community of experimentalists, theorists, engineers, and clinical scientists. We do this by recruiting and retaining world-class faculty, creating an outstanding collaborative training environment, seeding innovative projects, supporting collaborative teams, and raising the visibility and reputation of Carney researchers. Vision Our vision is to become a global leader in brain science, recognized for excellence, innovation, and discovery, and applying knowledge to improve lives and benefit society. About Robert J. Carney and Nancy D. Carney Robert J. Carney graduated in Brown’s undergraduate Class of 1961. He is founder and chairman of Vacation Publications, Inc. Previously he was a founder of Jet Capital Corp., a financial advisory firm, and Texas Air Corp, which owned Continental Airlines and several other airlines. Nancy Doerr Carney is a former television news producer. The Carneys, of Houston, are longtime supporters of Brown, including as the donors of the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney University Professorship in Economics, the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Assistant Professorship, and the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Innovation Fund. Robert Carney’s generous volunteer service to Brown includes a long-term tenure as a trustee of the Corporation of Brown University and having served as the co-chair of his class’s 50th Reunion gift committee. A $100 million namesake gift in 2018 from Brown University alumnus Robert J. Carney and Nancy D. Carney established the institute as one of the best-endowed university brain institutes in the country. This gift will drive our research agenda, from studying genes and circuits, to healthy behavior, to brain disorders. About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top