Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Working at Xavier Job Openings Benefits Xavier Home Working at Xavier Menu Job Openings Benefits Perhaps we're a bit biased, but we like to think that Xavier is one of the best places to work—not just in Cincinnati, but anywhere. Our 190-acre campus is alive with activity. Our opportunities for growth and advancement aren't just limited to students in the classroom. Our faculty and staff are seen as members of the 'Xavier Family.' And, judging by the interest we get from people wanting to work here, it's safe to say many others would agree. Perhaps that's why you're here. Good. Welcome. We're always looking for new family members. Latest Xavier Job Postings Get More Information Xavier Benefits Job Openings Benefits Overview Benefits Overview Retirement Plan Retirement Planning Paid Time Off Vacation and Sick Leave Additional Benefits Tuition Remission Cincinnati, OH More Fortune 500 companies per capita than Los Angles, New York or Chicago. #3 Best Travel DestinationLovely Planet #5 Most Affordable City in AmericaForbes #10 Best City for College GraduatesRent.com Clery Act Compliance Xavier University is committed to assisting all members of the community in providing for their own safety and security. The annual security and fire safety report is available on the XUPD website - http://www.xavier.edu/clery/documents/2014-15ASR.pdf . If you would like to receive a hard copy of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report which contains this information, you can stop by the Xavier University Police Department in Flynn Hall or you can request that a copy be mailed to you by calling 513-745-3401 or by emailing fullera@xavier.edu The report contains information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, university police law enforcement authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures and other matters of importance related to security on campus. They also contain information about fire statistics in XU Residence Halls and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by Xavier; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus. This information is required by law and is provided by The Xavier University Police Department. Xavier University Notice of Non-Discrimination Title IX is the federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on sex in all federally funded education programs and activities. In compliance with Title IX, Xavier University does not discriminate based on sex in any education or activity, including admission and employment. Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, harassment or discrimination based on pregnancy, parenting, sexual orientation and/or gender identity. Xavier University does not tolerate sex discrimination. If a student or employee believes they have experienced sex discrimination or has questions about Title IX, please contact Xavier’s Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator Kate Lawson at 332B Gallagher Student Center, 3800 Victory Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45207, 513-745-3046, lawsonk1@xavier.edu or the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at U.S. Dept. of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 400 Maryland Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20202, 800-421-3481, OCR@ed.gov. For free, confidential advocacy and support, contact Xavier’s Advocacy & Prevention Coordinator at 513-904-9013. Get More Information Xavier Benefits Job Openings Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram