Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Arts & Sciences About Areas of Study Research Scholarships Students Resources Career Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Scholarships & Funding Resources Departmental Not Discipline Specific Internships Assistantships Fellowships Link to Financial Aid UofM Scholarship Office Take Action Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree Offering Master's and Doctoral Degrees Community Engagement Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home CAS Scholarships Scholarships in the College of Arts & Sciences The Tiger Scholarship Manager is the new, secure, online system that offers a centralized location for all scholarship opportunities at the University of Memphis. The New System offers a centralized, searchable database, an online application process, tools to help match you to eligible scholarships, and tools to upload supportive documents (i.e. resumes, essays, recommendations letters, financials, etc.) The new system will automatically notify you when you are selected for awards. You can login to your secure, online account to review requirements and accept your awards. To access the new system, login to the UofM portal > Go to the Accounts Tab > Click on the Tiger Scholarship link on the Scholarships Channel. How To Guide Students who receive these departmental and privately funded scholarships – those scholarships found on Tiger Scholarship Manager – must agree to the following: have a photo taken with our university photographer, provide a brief bio and write a thank you note for donors who have generously provided the funds to benefit our students. University of Memphis Undergraduate Scholarship Office The Undergraduate Scholarship Office at the University of Memphis awards hundreds of academic scholarships each year to entering freshmen. All scholarships are awarded for the academic year (Fall and Spring semesters). Scholarships are awarded based on information submitted on the University of Memphis admissions application. A separate scholarship application is not required unless noted. The deadline for admission to the University of Memphis for scholarship consideration is March 1. Visit their website for information on UofM scholarships. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.