Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Chemistry Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology Chemistry The Department of Chemistry offers programs leading to: (1) the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree in chemistry and to (2) the Master of Science in Teaching (M.S.T.) degree in education. The latter is in conjunction with the Lynch School of Education. Chemistry Courses Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Website Print Open All Close All Ph.D. Degree Requirements Ph.D. Degree Requirements There is no total credit requirement for the Ph.D. degree. All entering graduate students are required to take the core graduate courses that are designed to provide a reasonable and broad level of proficiency in the various chemistry disciplines. Additionally, students are encouraged to take at least two advanced courses in the student’s chosen focus of research. Core courses may include Mechanistic Organic Chemistry, CHEM5537; Principles of Chemical Biology, CHEM5560; and Physical Chemistry: Principles and Applications, CHEM6676. First year students are required to take a one-semester course, Scientific Communication in Chemistry during the spring term. Advanced course selection will depend on the student’s research areas and are chosen in consultation with their research advisor. Every student is expected to attain a GPA of at least 3.0 at the end of his or her second semester in the Graduate School and to maintain it thereafter. If this standard is not met, the student may be required to withdraw from the graduate program. At the end of the second year, Ph.D. candidates must pass an oral exam that stresses material from their own research specialty and other related areas. Members of the student’s thesis committee comprise the exam committee. Students who do not pass this exam will be asked to do one of the following: repeat the oral exam (for a final time), complete the requirements for a Master of Science (M.S.) degree, or withdraw from the program. Students choosing to complete the requirements for an M.S. degree must complete a minimum of 18 graduate credits of coursework and a thesis. Students typically accumulate 12 to 18 credits of coursework during the first year of study. The Comprehensive Examination for the M.S. degree is a private, oral defense of the student’s research thesis. Graduate Curriculum The curriculum is designed to stimulate intellectual exchange among students as well as faculty members and to train graduate students in communication skills. First-year course requirements provide students with a breadth of knowledge in the traditional fields: organic, chemical biology, physical chemistry, and inorganic chemistry. While a specific number of credits is not required for the Ph.D., students are encouraged to pursue a program of studies—with the approval of their advisor—that is consistent with their individual educational goals. An outline of the curriculum follows: Year 1: Coursework Year 2: Qualifying Exam Year 3/4: Student Department Seminar* Year 3/4: Original Proposal* *Students are expected to complete these two requirements (Department Seminar and Original Proposal) before the end of Year 4, and complete at least one in Year 3. The M.S. and Ph.D. degrees require a thesis based upon original research, either experimental or theoretical. For the Ph.D. candidate, a thesis project involving a sustained research effort (typically requiring 4–6 years) will begin usually during the second semester of study. An oral defense of the dissertation before a faculty thesis committee and a public presentation complete the degree requirements. Some teaching or equivalent educational experience is required. This requirement may be satisfied by at least one year of service as a teaching assistant or by suitable teaching duties. Arrangements are made with each student for a teaching program best suited to his/her overall program of studies. Waivers of teaching requirements may be granted under special circumstances with the approval of the Director of Graduate Studies or Department Chairperson. M.S.T. Degree M.S.T. Degree The Master of Science in Teaching degree program is administered through the Lynch School of Education in cooperation with the Department of Chemistry and requires admission to graduate programs in both the Lynch School of Education and the Department of Chemistry. Although course requirements may vary depending upon the candidate’s prior teaching experience, all master’s programs leading to certification in secondary education include practical experiences in addition to course work. Students seeking certification in Massachusetts are required to pass the Massachusetts Educators Certification Test. For further information on the M.S.T. degree, please refer to the Lynch School of Education Graduate Programs section, Master’s Programs in Secondary Teaching, or call the Office of Graduate Admissions, Lynch School, at 617-552-4214. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College