Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Dormitories & Dining Living and dining arrangements at the U.S. Air Force Academy reinforce the squadron as the defining aspect of daily life. Cadets develop their knowledge and leadership skills together, while also living and eating together. Dormitories Vandenberg Hall Vandenberg Hall, commonly referred to as Vandy, is the second-largest university dormitory in the country. With 1,320 cadet rooms, Squadrons 1–23 are located here. Click here to learn more and take a virtual tour. Sijan Hall The recently renovated Sijan Hall houses 1,964 cadets. within Squadrons 24–40. Amenities include a barber shop and beauty shop facilities, day spa, laundry room and a federal credit union with ATM. Click here to learn more and take a virtual tour. Dining Mitchell Hall Mitchell Hall is our cadet dining hall. It’s one of the largest and most advanced dining facilities in the world. It serves over 4,000 cadets in less than 30 minutes! On weekdays during the academic year, cadets are required to attend breakfast and noon meals, while an option all-you-can-eat buffet is served for dinner and on the weekends. Click here to learn more and take a virtual tour. Arnold Hall Nestled between the ballroom and theater is the Richter Lounge Food Court, which is open to cadets on nights and weekends. There’s no need to leave base when you can catch up over a cup of coffee at Polaris Perk, share a pizza at Dominos or grab a healthy snack at Subway. Click here to learn more and take a virtual tour. Fairchild Hall Whether you’re craving some Dunkin’ Donuts or meeting up with friends for lunch at Subway, the Falcon Center is a great place to hangout between classes. Click here to learn more and take a virtual tour. Explore More Facilities Athletics Academy Admissions ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.