Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mechanical Engineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mechanical Engineering Major Apply Visit Request More Info Mechanical Engineering Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Earn a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering and develop the skills to conceptualize the next generation of engines, instruments, robots and vehicles. Position yourself to design the advanced machinery of the 21st century in the oldest of engineering disciplines. The types of problems mechanical engineers could work on include adapting machines and mechanical systems to use renewable energy; affecting digital technology and the life sciences through nanotechnology; designing power grids, hydraulic pumps, automated manufacturing systems; and more. Becoming a mechanical engineer requires the skill to model a mechanical design concept graphically, mathematically and in three dimensions. In addition, mechanical engineers must be able to predict how the mechanism will use/convert energy and perform under stress. Consequently, through the 128-credit hour curriculum, Mechanical Engineering BS majors study forces in static and dynamic systems, mechanics of solids and fluids, principles of thermodynamics, processes of heat and energy conversion, and properties of materials. You must also study rigorous mathematics for the Mechanical Engineering BS, through differential equations and engineering statistics. Moreover, you will develop competency in producing engineering graphics and using computer-aided design (CAD) techniques. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Related Graduate Degrees Engineering Management MS Mechanical Engineering MS Mechanical Engineering PhD +1 Accelerated Degree Programs The College of Engineering also offers accelerated +1 degree Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study, instead of the usual six years. Mechanical Engineering undergraduate majors can earn a Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering in one year. Graduate courses taken as an undergraduate in this program are charged at the undergraduate rate. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s accelerated degree programs. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. You’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and probably effect some positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the Temple University Amateur Radio Club and Temple Robotics. See the full list of Engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition and the Student Design Competition. Study Away Opportunities Spend a spring semester abroad in Rome studying engineering dynamics, mechanics of solids, and classical and statistical thermodynamics. One of the big advantages of Temple Engineering’s study abroad program is that students take the same classes in Rome as they would on Main Campus: three engineering classes and Italian I. Temple’s College of Engineering is one of the few schools able to offer coursework that keeps you up to speed with the demands of an engineering curriculum. Learn more about the Temple Rome Engineering Study Abroad program. Accreditation Temple’s Mechanical Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board of Engineering and Technology (ABET). Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-ME-BSME Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mechanical Engineering Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info