Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPHPublic Health Minor Masters MHAEMHAMPHMS BiostatisticsDual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs Offered On-Campus Offered Fully-Online Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Science in Public Health (BSPH) This 62 credit-hour major will provide you with a strong foundation in public health through evidence-informed course content; community-based internships; and a curriculum based on established competencies, best practices, and accreditation standards. Public Health Minor The Public Health Minor (18 credit hours) is designed to provide students with an understanding of the connections between public health and every aspect of life as well as the analytic approaches to understanding these connections. Graduate Programs Masters Programs Master of Health Administration (MHA) The 53-credit hour on-campus track can be completed full-time in two academic years (21 months) or part-time in as few as three years. Evening classes accommodate both full- and part-time students. This program is accredited by CAHME and a member of AUPHA. Executive Master of Health Administration (EMHA) The 53 credit hour track is offered entirely online as part of UofM Global. This track is designed to prepare current mid-career clinical and management health care professionals for advanced management and leadership roles. This track is accredited by CAHME. Master of Public Health (MPH) The Master of Public Health (MPH) program is for anyone with a passion for improving health on a large scale. The MPH program integrates academic rigor with real-world solutions to promote healthy communities. Master of Science in Biostatistics (MS) This program provides formal training on theoretical frameworks of biostatistical methods and applications of biostatistical methods in health related studies. It also aims to build a solid foundation for subsequent PhD studies in Biostatistics and related fields such as PhD in Epidemiology. Dual Degree A JD/MPH dual degree program is now available, or the MPH may be taken as part of a dual degree with another graduate program. Doctoral Programs PhD in Epidemiology and Biostatistics The PhD program in Epidemiology and Biostatistics offers cutting-edge, advanced training to prepare individuals for academic and research careers. Graduate assistantships provide tuition reimbursement and stipends to full-time students. PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences This program is designed for those who intend to teach and conduct original research utilizing rigorous scientific theories and methods to understand and influence the social and behavioral determinants of population health risk factors and outcomes. Graduate assistantships provide tuition reimbursement and stipends to full-time students. Graduate Certificates Health Systems Leadership The Health Systems Leadership graduate certificate provides students with training in areas critical to 21st century healthcare, public health, and community health leadership. Health Analytics The Certificate in Health Analytics provides working public health and healthcare professionals with formal training in data management, data mining, and statistical analyses of large datasets. Population Health The Graduate Certificate in Population Health offers focused academic training for public health practitioners and other healthcare leaders who are interested in improving health outcomes in the community. Once completed, students are eligible to take the Certified in Public Health (CPH) exam. Health Care Interpreter Course The Health Care Interpreter Course, accredited by the International Medical Interpreter Association, is a specialized educational program offered several times during the year with course curriculum and materials developed by Kaiser Permanente in partnership with Hablamos Juntos. It's ideal for students who are proficient in two or more languages. Request Information > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.