Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »Office of the Provost Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President Home About Meet the Provost Communications Administrative searches See all of About Reporting units Colleges and academic units Enrollment Management Institutional Effectiveness Institutional Research & Assessment International Programs Student Success See all of Reporting units Enrichment Lecture Series Workshops, institutes and seminars Scholars and fellowships Awards and honors University Distinguished Professors See all of Enrichment Resources Academic Calendars Department Heads Directories Evaluation, Promotion and Tenure Research Teaching See all of Resources Policies University Handbook Policies and Procedures Manual Department/Unit Head Manual Classroom Policies See all of Policies Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs Tilford Group International Student Services Education Abroad KAWSE KS-LSAMP See all of Diversity Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President Kansas State University 108 Anderson Hall 919 Mid-Campus Drive North Manhattan, KS 66506-0110 785-532-6224 Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President Welcome from Provost Taber As the chief academic officer for Kansas State University, I live and breathe the shared ideals and core values that make K-State a vibrant and inclusive community of scholars. With a 150-year history as Kansas's land-grant research university, we have a rich tradition of academic excellence, discovery, and leadership that serves the aspirations of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and the broader community. It is my privilege and pledge to ensure that our land grant mission, including teaching, research, extension, and community service, continues to be the touchstone for all we do. I invite you to explore the many opportunities that K-State has to offer across our nine academic colleges, the Libraries, Graduate School, Global Campus, our campuses at Salina and Olathe, and our extension offices across Kansas. As K-State's academic leader, it gives me great pride to offer my own Wildcat Welcome! Charles S. Taber Provost and Executive Vice President Provost Picks Planning for the Next-Generation Land-Grant University Academic Program Review and Revitalization (K-State eID/pwd required) Learn more about the university initiative to develop a transparent, comprehensive academic program review process to support continuous improvement and revitalization of our academic portfolio. COVID-19: Come Back 'Cats Learn more about K-State's COVID-19 response and COVID-19 Updates. To see communications from the Provost regarding changes in academic procedures and other COVID-19 related information, please see the Provost messages. Faculty Honors Kansas State University is home to many leading scholars. More than 60 of our faculty are or have been named University Distinguished Professors, which is a lifelong honor bestowed by the Provost on those who have made outstanding contributions to their field. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Strategic Plan Explore the university's five-year strategic plan for diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging: Our Lens, Our Focus, Our K-State. Action Plan for a More Inclusive K-State Recent national events and #BlackAtKState bring into clear focus how much work needs to be done to address racial and social injustice issues at our university. Developing meaningful, measurable action plans will propel us forward together. KSUnite KSUnite is a rallying cry that joins the entire university family together to uphold the value of human diversity and inclusion for community. Strategic Enrollment Management In partnership with the Huron Consulting Group, we are charting new directions to enhance enrollment, recruit and retain a talented, diverse student body, and improve overall student success at Kansas State University. All Provost picks From the Provost's Desk Tweets by ChuckTaberKSU In the News See all news Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 5/5/22