Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Lynch School of Education & Human Development Lynch School Centers Search BC.edu Links Roche Center for Catholic Education Menu Main Nav Roche Center for Catholic Education Roche Center for Catholic Education Cultivating Talent Report Back Back Close About Overview Roche Center Team Staff Biographies Contact Partnerships News Meet John Reyes, Ed.D. Meet Molly McMahon, Ph.D. Meet Elena Sada, Ph.D. How a Border Immersion Influenced My Vocation Community: Living and Learning with Others Praying with Other Catholic Educators Faith and Community Sustain Us Bringing the Joy of the Gospel in a Time of Crisis Meet Michael O’ Connor, Ph.D. Programs Overview Catholic Leadership Cohort Emmaus Leadership Academies Superintendent PLC TWIN-CS Roche Center Research Fellows G.R.A.C.E. Summer Book Club for Catholic Educators Related Links Partnerships EANS Research & Resources Overview Teacher Resources Publications Professional Development Overview Bilingual Education Certificate for Catholic School Educators Empowering Educators: Teacher-Leadership for Catholic Schools Encuentro Immersion Imago Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Program Social Emotional Learning (SEL) Academy Programs Eligible for EANS Funding Close Cultivating Talent Report Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Centers BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Transforming Catholic Education The Roche Center for Catholic Education forms educators to become agents of change who work to create excellent and equitable Pre K-12 Catholic schools. Roche Center News Overview of Programs At the Roche Center for Catholic Education, we center the unique gifts and vocation of Catholic educators. Embedded within every program is a focus on the ‘cura personalis,’ or “care of the whole person,” which attends to the spiritual, communal and intellectual aspects of formation. Catholic Leadership Programs The Roche Center’s leadership programs challenge Catholic educators to be agents of change for their school communities. Degree and non-degree offerings include leadership formation for emerging and sitting school- and diocesan-level leaders. Dual Language Catholic Schools Led by esteemed dual language experts, the Two-Way Immersion Network for Catholic Schools (TWIN-CS) consists of 21 dual language Catholic schools that share research, ideas, techniques, and resources to support students in becoming bilingual and biliterate. Professional Development / Formation Informed by Catholic Social Teaching, the Roche Center’s professional education and formation opportunities challenge Catholic school educators to consider content, pedagogy and social emotional learning through the lenses of equity, justice and sociocultural competency. Research and Resources The Center's research team designs, administers, analyzes, and presents studies on the top issues facing Catholic education today, including teacher formation and retention, the development of national standards and benchmarks, and culturally, linguistically and racially diverse curriculum. Partnerships At the Roche Center, we practice the 'magis' or “more” by partnering with Catholic centers, institutes, schools and initiatives across Boston College and beyond in order to advance the formative mission of both the University and Catholic educators. “The Roche Center is a beautiful example of what Jesus calls us to do, which is to live our faith and transform our lives as we get closer to loving others as Jesus loves us. This is the groundwork that allows us to become fully human to each other.” Dora Arredondo-Marron, transitional Kindergarten teacher and Racial Justice Book Club participant Back To Top Back To Top Roche Center for Catholic Education Boston College 25 Lawrence Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4187 Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College