Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu GROWWTH About Community Partners Project Team Share Your Ideas News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Meet Our Community Partners PreviousNext Take Action View Community Partners Meet Our Project Team Contact Us Home GROWWTH Growing Relational and Occupational Wealth in West Tennessee Households A community partnership led by the University of Memphis has been awarded a Tennessee Opportunity Pilot Initiative Implementation Grant in the amount of $25,000,000 to improve outcomes for West Tennessee’s low-income families. The grant will be awarded in November 2022 by the Tennessee Department of Human Services and Families First, the state’s Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. This represents the largest grant received by the University of Memphis to date. The project is named Growing Relational and Occupational Wealth in West Tennessee Households (GROWWTH). The grant funding will allow GROWWTH to work toward its goal of eliminating key barriers to self-sufficiency for low-income wage earners the West Tennessee region. GROWWTH has developed plans to improve family access to needed resources for economic mobility, implement a holistic approach to improving the personal and professional well-being of families, strengthen the existing system through partner resources and inspire families to appreciate the value of growth and lifelong learning. Additionally, GROWWTH will address labor force challenges experienced by existing regional employers and prepare for the evolving workforce demand of Ford’s Blue Oval City, which will create approximately 6,000 jobs in Stanton, Tenn. GROWWTH will serve constituents in the 21 counties that make up West Tennessee, including Benton, Carroll, Chester, Decatur, Dyer, Fayette, Gibson, Hardeman, Hardin, Haywood, Henderson, Henry, Lake, Lauderdale, Madison, McNairy, Obion, Shelby, Tipton and Weakley. The GROWWTH goal is to serve 2,500 low-income households during the three-year funding period. The resulting outcome would yield a net benefit of an estimated $850 million over the next 10 years, including a boost to the gross domestic product and a savings of $330 million from reduced social safety net spending. GROWWTH’s efforts will be highly collaborative. Led by the Center for Regional Economic Enrichment at the University of Memphis, a variety of units within the University will work with a network of three regional workforce boards (Workforce MidSouth, Southwest Tennessee and Northwest Tennessee), the Greater Memphis Chamber and a group of community organizations and local business. The plan includes the GROWWTH Academy — an accelerated workforce readiness program designed in direct response to the needs of local businesses and the target population. The innovative curriculum of the Academy addresses gaps to readiness for stable employment and employer readiness for offering sustainable career pathways. Businesses throughout the region have committed to hiring Academy graduates. Learn more about the program > For more information, contact growwth@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/5/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.