Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ADMIN 510 Fundamentals of Business Administration ([1-15]-, max. 15) Includes materials basic to study and application of business theories and practice; accounting; business economies and financial control; and business strategy; commercial law; human resources and negotiations; marketing; operations management. Faculty team-teaching approach. Not open to master of business administration majors. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ADMIN 510 ADMIN 511 Fundamentals of Business Adminstration (4) Develops student's ability to think as practicing executive; providing practice in analyzing, evaluating, and modifying organizations' strategies in light of changing conditions for profit and non-profits. Develops marketing skills in understanding targeted customer's needs and the specific marketing steps to create demand. Not open to MBA students. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ADMIN 511 ADMIN 512 Fundamentals of Business Adminstration - People Management, Leadership, and Teams (4) Introduces theories and practices relating to the management of people and teams, organizational behavior, human resources and leadership. Helps distinguish management factors that create a sustaining culture that attracts, motivates and retains the right people for the right jobs. Not open to MBA students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ADMIN 512 ADMIN 513 Fundamentals of Business Adminstration: Accounting and Finance (4) Introduces financial and managerial accounting and finance. Topics include financial statements, capital structure decisions, cost of debt and equity, ratio analysis, classifying costs, breakeven analysis, budgeting, and capital budgeting. The goal is to understand eternal reports and to use financial information internally for decision-making. Not open to MBA students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ADMIN 513 ADMIN 514 Fundamentals of Business Administration: Business Plan Practicum I (2) Students develop a business plan on a team based on their interests. Applies the information from the ADMIN 511 and ADMIN 512 to the development of the plan. Prerequisite: ADMIN 511; ADMIN 512, which may be taken concurrently. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ADMIN 514 ADMIN 515 Fundamentals of Business Administration: Business Plan Practicum II (1) Students complete the business plan on a team that was developed in ADMIN 514. Applies the information from ADMIN 511, ADMIN 512, and ADMIN 513 to the development of the plan. Prerequisite: ADMIN 514. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ADMIN 515 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022