Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Welcome welcome from the Vice President Bienvenidos and welcome, Titans! My name is Dr. Tonantzin Oseguera and I serve as Vice President for the Division of Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton. Thank you for taking interest in our work and our student support services, programming, and resources. As leader of the Division of Student Affairs, I stand alongside a team of 400+ staff members who are here to support student success. Although our mission is to help you – the student – thrive academically, professionally, and personally, our purpose extends far beyond working to support you for a few years. Instead, we strive to create enriching educational opportunities and outcomes to help set you up for success now and actualize your full potential in the future. We do this – while encouraging a fun and memorable university experience – through our Student Affairs departments, including: Campus clubs and organizations; Career, employment, internship, and scholarship resources; Counseling and wellness resources; Identity-based centers, anti-racism and cultural-competency training; Financial Aid services and scholarship programs; Professional development opportunities; Student conduct and basic needs services; Student government and leadership opportunities through Associated Students, Inc.; Student housing and dining services; Titan Athletics and student-athlete educational resources. I hope that you take the time to explore our site, which includes links to every service that is mentioned above. We are here for you and want to work together. Lastly, as a reminder, a safe and healthy return to campus has been our priority since the COVID-19 pandemic began. To that end, I want to point you to President’s Directive No. 22 – COVID-19: Mitigation Measures and Guidelines, where you can find university guidelines, practices, and protocols for the Fall 2021 semester. Be well, be joyous! Tonantzin Oseguera, Ed.D. Vice President Division of Student Affairs Tweets by Vice President Oseguera This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.