Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links OUC Menu Main Nav OUC Contact Back Back Close People Our Work Overview Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Social Fellows Application Humans of Boston College Humans of BC Nomination Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine For Journalists Overview Policies Names in the News BC Faculty Experts Lisa Sowle Cahill Andrea Vicini, S.J. Shu-Yi Oei Serazio, Michael Samuel Richardson Eric Dearing Richard McGowan S.J. Ray Madoff Jeremy Shakun Mark Bradshaw Mary Ellen Carter James Lubben John Makransky Thomas H. Groome Fishman, Donald Sienkiewicz, Matt Kevin R. Powers Lisa Goodman Noah P. Snyder John E. Ebel Anderson, James E. Grubb, Michael Can Erbil Ireland, Peter Murphy, Robert Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic Ana M. Martínez Alemán James Repetti Diane Ring Natana J. Delong-Bas Michael Pratt Brad Harrington Zine Magubane C. Shawn McGuffey Sharlene Hesse-Biber Charles Derber Summer Sherburne Hawkins Jessica Black Theresa Betancourt Alicia Munnell Hosffman Ospino James W. Morris Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM Richard Gaillardetz Sara Cordes Liane Young Ellen Winner Peter Gray Kay L. Schlozman Robert S. Ross Jonathan Laurence Marc Landy David Hopkins Dennis Hale James Cronin Seth Jacobs Cynthia L. Lyerly Arissa Oh James O'Toole Devin Pendas Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. Heather Cox Richardson Alan Rogers Jane M. Flanagan Pamela J. Grace Alison O. Marshall Colleen Simonelli Patricia A. Tabloski Judith Vessey Catherine Yetter Read Sheila Tucker Mary Cronin John Gallaugher Gerald Kane Franziska Seraphim James Bernauer, S.J. Ruth Langer Robert J. Savage Hwang, Ingu Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Robert Bloom Mark Brodin George D. Brown Michael Cassidy Kent Greenfield Renee Jones Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Patricia McCoy David Olson Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn Francine Sherman Catharine Wells David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Judith Clair John Fisher Henrik Hagtvedt Bradford Hudson Hristina Nikolova Elizabeth Kensinger Eva Garroutte Ann W. Burgess Karen Arnold David Blustein Henry Braun Susan Bruce Marilyn Cochran-Smith Julia DeVoy Maria Estela Brisk Andy Hargreaves Jacqueline Lerner Rebekah Levine Coley Belle Liang Rebecca Lowenhaupt Julie Paquette MacEvoy Katherine McNeill Laura O'Dwyer Mariela Páez Paul Poteat C. Patrick Proctor David Scanlon Dennis Shirley Mary Walsh Richard Kearney Alan L. Kafka Gail C. Kineke Darren Kisgen Jeffrey Pontiff Jonathan Reuter Ronnie Sadka Philip E. Strahan Dean Hashimoto David Twomey Miles, John "Jack" Nadia N. Abuelezam Chahrour, Ryan Jeffrey Cohen Hiba Hafiz Mary Ann Chirba Cal Halvorsen Leonard Kostovetsky Ali Kadivar Steven Koh Rachel Spooner Kirsten Davison Daniel Farbman Landrigan, Philip J. Krupenkin, Masha Juliet Schor Sankaran, Chandini Steinberg, Laura J. Betty Lai Nosal, Jaromir Stephen Shay R. Shep Melnick James Smith Francesco D’Acunto Bethune, Brian Ryan Williams Policies & Guidelines Overview Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Guidelines Home Our Work Social Media Guidelines Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Humans of Boston College The following are guidelines for administrators who represent Boston College through social media. They were developed by the Office of University Communications, which oversees the University's official social media presence and chairs BC's Social Media Council. These guidelines provide tips for creating successful social media channels and for representing Boston College in an appropriate, authentic, transparent, and secure way. They also include cautions about potential pitfalls. This page is an ongoing project; guidelines will be revised or updated as new social media platforms emerge, best practices evolve, or new concerns arise. If you are a BC social media manager and you have a suggestion or question, please email social@bc.edu. Strategy Being Social Accuracy & Timing Privacy & Confidentiality Social Manners Evaluation Your Social Team Crisis Communication BE STRATEGIC. Social media should be part of a broader communication strategy. Consider the following questions, ideally before you launch a new channel, but even when it is already established. What do you hope to achieve? Who is your audience? What channels would reach them most effectively? Do you have the resources and commitment to run these channels well? Are other related departments already doing something similar? Do you need multiple channels? Would fewer, stronger channels be better? Instagram Photo: @madisonpolkowitz LISTEN. Monitor the conversation on your channels—and beyond—to learn about your audiences’ likes, dislikes, attitudes, and social media behavior. Never "post and run," leaving the ensuing conversation unattended. Regularly check your channels for: Comments or inquiries that require a response Posts that could be shared Objectionable posts, spam, or advertisements that should be removed promptly Fans or followers that should be blocked (e.g., for spam or violation of site rules) Instagram Photo: @_juliahopkins THINK FIRST. How are others likely to react to the post? Remember that "delete" only goes so far on the Internet, so use good judgment before each post. Posts can go viral very quickly, so if it's questionable, skip it. (Ask: Would I want to see this shared across the web attributed to my channel?) On the flip side, a viral post that is positive can boost an account’s profile, so be on the lookout for content that has the potential for a broad reach. If something touches on a controversial topic (e.g., politics), it can result in a heated discussion. Are you prepared for that? Remember that audience members may have varying reactions to a post that appears to be completely positive. Example: An award for a book may seem to be a perfect post, but if the book's premise deals with a hot-button issue, it is possible that audience members who hold a differing viewpoint will respond, sometimes forcefully, despite the fact that the author of the book is affiliated with the organization of which they are a fan or follower. Example: A post about a positive change to an organization's operating policy or physical plant may draw cheers – or boos from those who prefer it to stay the same. Example: Some audience members will use any post they can to bring the topic back to a grievance. If a city wins an award for transportation, the audience members may use it to respond with complaints about taxes or schools. Example: Even seemingly benign topics can draw negative responses. The post "apples are the best" will draw a thumbs up from those who agree and thumbs down from those who prefer oranges. This can make for a lively, spirited discussion that makes your channel a vibrant one — or it can unexpectedly turn nasty. This doesn't mean that no news or topic that might draw potential disagreement can be posted. Rather, it means posting should be a considered activity, and social media administrators should be aware that monitoring and moderating a discussion may be needed. Instagram Photo: @catmcgloin Instagram Photo: @mandabolanos Instagram Photo: @fra97_photos BE VALUABLE. Keep the page fresh, ideally posting daily, but not so frequently that you will fill up users' timelines. A channel that lies dormant can be worse than no channel at all. Good sources of content include: Helpful hints, information, or reminders Links to pertinent or interesting campus sites Current or historical facts and tidbits related to your area Awards and achievements Congratulations and other good wishes Posts from other sites and channels on campus Posts of interest from related sites off campus Comments on or shares of users' posts Campus-related photos Instagram Photo: @connor_keeley24 BE SOCIAL. Respond to inquiries and comments directed toward your channels wherever possible. Engagement is more effective than pushing out information. Proactive ways to engage an audience include: Asking questions Commenting on the information you're posting Soliciting photos or feedback (if appropriate) Retweeting or commenting on other posts Developing a personality; avoiding robotic posts Instagram Photo: @bdweix UNDERSTAND WHAT DOES 'SOCIAL' MEANS. The decision to create a channel that includes conversation should be made with the understanding that members of your audience may have differing, sometimes opposing, views. A site that deletes every negative post is not a social site. Establish ground rules, such as the community guidelines for BC's official Facebook page, for courteous and appropriate behavior on the page and abide by them: If a comment is incorrect, set the record straight. If a post expresses a problem or a disappointment, and you can help, offer to do so. If the comment is opinion, but is not in violation of page guidelines, let it stand. Instagram Photo: @cyrilzakka DON'T OVERDO IT. As a social media administrator, you are simultaneously the host of your site and a guest at a larger gathering, so observe the social etiquette. Make your audience feel welcome at your site, provide refreshments (information/personality), but don't try too hard. As noted above, limit the number of regular posts. Instagram Photo: @pageharrington_ BE ACCURATE. Don't guess or speculate about the answer to a University-related question or share information related to BC from unverified sources. If it is inaccurate, you risk starting or giving credence to a rumor. If it's a question, either determine and relay the correct answer or refer the questioner to the appropriate website or department. If someone posts something inaccurate to your site, politely correct it or remove it (if necessary). Proofread posts to avoid typos and errors. Instagram Photo: @annalisedeal BE TIMELY. Often the best-received content is carefully planned and well timed. What is your audience talking about? And when? Posts that capitalize on active, real conversations usually have higher engagement. The best social media practitioners also know the best times their audience is most active and likely to see posts on the various platforms. Instagram Photo: @pat_halmphotos BE TRANSPARENT. No administrator should speak on behalf of Boston College on University-wide issues without authorization, nor should an employee of one BC department speak "for" another department. In addition, administrators should be clear about their affiliation with the University when answering questions or posting about BC, even on external platforms. Social media administrators should not use University channels to express personal opinions represented as University, departmental, or organizational views. Attribute any post that does not contain content original to your department and that does not link back to the originator's site (e.g., include photo credits). Instagram Photo: @kcoberg, @crthrasher87 RESPECT CONFIDENTIALITY. Sharing information on social media is public dissemination. Do not release confidential or proprietary information related to Boston College, its staff, students, alumni, or any member of the University community. Do not allow fans or followers to reveal their private information during an exchange on an open channel. Take it offline if necessary. Do not any release any campus news or information prematurely. If you're not sure, check first. Instagram Photo: @ibizhao SAFEGUARD PRIVACY. Cybercrime is real. Reset the default privacy settings on social accounts to control who can see what, how information can be searched, and which applications are enabled. Create a strong password for each site and change it regularly. More information on safeguarding privacy is available from BC Information Technology Services at bc.edu/security. Instagram Photo: @mia_mickut BE COURTEOUS AND RESPECTFUL. Remember that all posts on channels run by BC departments reflect on the University. Ground rules for any site that hosts conversations should be clearly posted and followed. Even if a poster is being rude or annoying, the response on behalf of BC should be courteous. Avoid appearing to endorse flame posts by others through retweets or other shares. It is also important to be aware of the world around you. Do not post during times that would make you appear to be out of touch with current events and happenings. For example, do not post a joyful photo in the immediate aftermath of a terrorist attack, or on the flipside, a serious or sad post during BC’s biggest game of the year. If you schedule posts, always be aware of the dates and times you have messages planned. Be sure to remove or reschedule them if needed. Instagram Photo: @maddiewphotography BE HELPFUL. Social media has created the expectation of a prompt response to inquiries or complaints. Monitor comments and respond as quickly as possible. Consider creating an FAQ site to which common inquiries may be referred. Know when to take the discussion offline. After more than 1-2 exchanges, suggest that the poster contact you or someone else who can help via direct message, phone, or e-mail. Again, discourage questioners from posting their private contact information. Remember to check direct messages on all your channels and answer questions in a timely manner. Instagram Photo: @lightninmackeen USE GOOD JUDGMENT. Don't post or share anything that runs counter to or undermines the University's messages or integrity, or that could potentially hurt or embarrass BC staff, students, alumni, or individuals and organizations beyond BC. Adhere to all University policies, and refrain from using information or conducting activities that may violate local, state, or federal laws and regulations, including infringement of copyright or intellectual property rights. Instagram Photo: @willowthesilvergirl EVALUATE. Regular evaluations of your efforts should be carried out to improve content and strategy, as well as to learn more about your audience. Analyze engagement on popular posts, both positive and negative, look at what was successful and what did not meet expectations, and be willing to change strategies and come up with new ideas. Social media is a lot of trial and error. It is not a project, but an ongoing effort. Instagram Photo: @christian.cavaliere YOUR SOCIAL TEAM Based on the social media guidelines, it is clear that social media accounts need a good deal of attention by today’s common usage. Your department must have the resources and manpower to allocate to this endeavor. Many University practitioners use students and/or graduate students to aid in the process. While this may be necessary, avoid total reliance on the student body. A Boston College faculty or staff member must have administrative privileges to all accounts and is ultimately responsible for the content. A plan should be prepared for summer and winter breaks when students are not available so the accounts do not go quiet for long periods of time. Instagram Photo: @phimasphotos CRISIS COMMUNICATION In an event of any emergency on campus, we ask that all social media accounts affiliated with the University refrain from posting and direct followers to the official Boston College accounts. Updates will also be posted on the Boston College Police and BC Emergency Management channels. The following posts should be used on both Facebook and Twitter: “For updates on the current situation on campus, follow @BostonCollege. Thank you.” Those in charge of social media accounts at Boston College should do the following: Remove all schedule social media posts until the end of the crisis. Refrain from posting on social media channels after referring followers to @BostonCollege. Retweet and share any posts regarding the crisis from the official Boston College accounts and the BC Police and Emergency Management accounts. Do not spread unverified facts or posts. If you are unsure how to handle a situation or post, reach out to the social media team. If you see a social media post that could be helpful in a crisis or investigation, contact the Boston College Police Department: 617-552-4444. In critical situations, social media managers who are registered with OUC will be alerted via email and on the Social Media Council Facebook page. If you have questions about Boston College’s social media crisis communication plan, please reach out to Zanna Ollove, ollove@bc.edu. Instagram Photo: @kristian_singh Crisis Communcation Social Media Accounts @BostonCollege [Twitter] /BostonCollege [Facebook] @BCPoliceDept [Twitter] /BCPolice [Facebook] @BC_OEM [Twitter] /BCEmergency [Facebook] Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College