Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research Resources News Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Master's Degree FAQ Application and Eligibility Questions Is there a minimum GPA and GRE score required to apply? Brown University requires a minimum 3.0 on a 4-point scale for admission (with exceptions for unusual circumstances). There is no minimum GRE score requirement, but most accepted students have a quantitive score of 165 - 170, and analytical writing score of 4 or over. What is the rate of acceptance into the program? This number varies from year to year and is not all that useful in determining any one applicant’s chances of admission. The strength of your application will depend on a combination of factors, including your GPA and GRE scores, your personal statement, your recommendations, and your academic preparation for this program (including your English proficiency, if you are not a native speaker of English). See more information under Admission Criteria on this page. Can I still apply if I cannot have all the material ready by the deadline? No. Applications have to be submitted completely before the deadline to be considered. Note that we need a complete application, including letters of recommendation and official score reports, before we can make admission decisions. Therefore, please give your letter writers enough time to write and mail your letters of support. I cannot afford the application fee. Can you waive it? To request a fee waiver, complete the Application Fee Waiver Request on the online application form. The fee waiver request form must be submitted no later than three days before the application deadline. Applicants will be notified by email regarding the outcome of their request and should not submit their application until receiving notification about their waiver. In addition, you will need to upload documentation that substantiates your financial hardship. Will you accept my application if I have a three-year undergraduate degree? Yes. We do not require your undergraduate degree to be four years in duration. Do you have financial aid or merit scholarships available for ScM students? We do not currently have financial aid available for ScM students, and our office does not have information about scholarships that might be available for this program. See the Office of Financial Aid for financing options (their worksheets page is here). Do I have to take the TOEFL or IELTS if I am not a native speaker of English? If you have completed an undergraduate or graduate degree in English, you do not have to take an English language test. For more details, please look at Brown's TOEFL/IELTS waiver policy on this page. If you attended and completed a degree at an institution outside of the U.S. where English was the sole language of instruction, then you are not required to submit English scores. If this is the case, please email [email protected] upon submitting your application so we can manually waive the requirement. If you completed a degree from one of the following nations (Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada [except Quebec], Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom, West Indies, Zambia), an English language exam is not required, and no waiver submission or email is necessary. Program Information Is the Data Science Master's a STEM program? Yes, this is considered a STEM program for OPT extension purposes (this is a visa issue, of concern to international applicants). I am a Brown undergraduate; can I do this program as a concurrent degree? No. You can apply for the 5th-Year Master's Degree, but this program is not suitable for concurrent degrees. Is there an online option for this program? Currently, no. The program is entirely in-person, though we have made accommodations for people who are unable to be here in person because of the pandemic. Is there a part-time option? Can I do the program while working full-time? There is no part-time option, though students are considered full-time (for visa purposes) with only two credits per semester, and the program can be taken over a longer period in that way. There is no option that is compatible with full-time work, as the courses are quite challenging and most are held during work hours. What does the program cost? Please see this page for tuition information. What if I have other questions? General information about Brown’s Graduate School can be found here. For questions about the data science program and courses, please contact [email protected]. Please note that we have very limited resources for speaking with prospective applicants by phone or Zoom. For questions about the electronic application process, please contact [email protected]. We will hold virtual information sessions during the fall; dates will be announced here. Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top