By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Groups & Activities U100 In this Section Recommendation Submitted Application Submitted University 100 University 100 is a group of Syracuse University student ambassadors who represent our diverse community and share their love of Orange through campus tours and networking events. Syracuse University 100 Spring Application The University 100 Application is now open for the spring semester. We welcome you to apply to become part of this unique organization of campus ambassadors. Please complete this online application by March 11, 2022. If you have any questions, email Rachel Richards. We look forward to meeting you! What is U100? University 100 (U100) is the student ambassador organization for Syracuse University. U100 students represent the University’s diverse backgrounds and majors and interact with guests and visitors. Personable leaders who are deeply involved in campus life, ambassadors share their pride and energy with people visiting the University for the first time. Join if you are open to new experiences, friends, and connections. You'll also develop professional skills, from public speaking as a campus tour guide to networking by attending official University functions. You will greet families at open houses for prospective students, marshal the Homecoming Parade, and represent the student body at alumni, trustee, and Chancellor events. History of U100 In recognition of the impact Syracuse University students have in the recruitment of new students, the Office of Admissions established the University 100 in 1985. Since that time, the student volunteer group has been involved in assisting the Office of Admissions as well as other University offices and administrators, and occasionally visiting dignitaries. University 100 is named to recognize its role and honorary stature within the University. And as the name suggests, there are approximately 100 students in the organization annually who reflect the diversity of the University. U100 members represent each college and many geographic and ethnic backgrounds. Charter members of the University 100 were selected through nominations provided by the academic deans. Currently, members are selected in a more competitive manner. Interested students must submit an application, and, if chosen, interview to be selected for the organization. Members must possess the following qualities: strong academic record, extracurricular involvement, leadership skills, maturity, people skills, and an enthusiasm for Syracuse University. Featured Stories Embracing the Student Experience When Jennie May talks with prospective students in her role giving tours as a University 100 student ambassador, she invites them to think of their upcoming college years as playdough. Related Pages Admissions Events We welcomes visitors throughout the year with weekday campus visits, Syracuse Saturdays, and Orange Previews. Student Organizations Syracuse University is home to more than 300 extracurricular groups, so you’ll never run out of ways to live and learn. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy