Skip to main content Florida State University Search FSU Select Search Type FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Get to Know FSU About Florida State Administration Athletics FSU Facts FSU's Economic Impact Global FSU Land Acknowledgement Map of Campus Visitor Services News & Events Calendar of Events FSU Highlights & Rankings Press Research Initiatives Critical Thinking kNOw MORE FSU Tools & Resources Canvas Distance Learning Information Technology Services Libraries myFSU Service Centers and Help Desks Tutoring Policy & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Info FSU Regulations Police and Safety Policies Public Records Requests Strategic Plan Title IX Business & Employment Departments Directory Doing Business with Florida State Employment FSU Bookstore Human Resources Join Our Seminole Family Admissions Advocate for Florida State Alumni Association Giving to FSU Registrar Seminole Boosters Veterans Initiatives Close Menu Florida State University Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Menu Overview Mission and Vision Accreditation Student Body History Faculty Honors and Awards Student Body Florida State University preserves, expands, and disseminates knowledge in the sciences, technology, arts, humanities, and professions, while embracing a philosophy of learning strongly rooted in the traditions of the liberal arts. The university is dedicated to excellence in teaching, research, creative endeavors, and service. The university strives to instill the strength, skill, and character essential for lifelong learning, personal responsibility, and sustained achievement within a community that fosters free inquiry and embraces diversity. During the fall 2021 semester, there were 59 freshmen and 83 undergraduate students for a total of 142 National Merit Scholars enrolled at Florida State University. The middle 50% high school GPA for the summer/fall 2021 freshman class was 4.0-4.4 and middle 50% SAT scores were 1200-1330. With 45,493 students enrolled in fall 2021, the student body was comprised of 73.6% undergraduates, 24.4% graduates and 1.9% unclassified. Women accounted for 58.1% of the enrollment and minorities made up 37.6% of student enrollment. The average age for undergraduate students is 20.5. Students hailed from all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 80.9 of all students were Floridians, and 95.1% were from the United States. Foreign students from more than 130 countries are represented, comprising 4.8% of student enrollment, and 22 foreign countries each contributed 30 or more students. Overview Mission and Vision Accreditation Student Body History Faculty Honors and Awards © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media