Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Staff Development Day Wednesday, June 15, 2022 On Staff Development Day, Brown staff invest in their personal and professional growth, increase their knowledge about Brown University, and gain a better understanding of faculty research. Registration for Staff Development Day 2022 is now OPEN!! Staff Development Day Tracks The Shopping Period for Staff Development Day sessions is open. Navigate through the available session tracks below to see the offerings scheduled on June 15. Brown & Beyond Career & Professional Development Community Service Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Faculty Spotlight Health & Wellness Personal Growth & Development View All Sessions Here View Virtual Sessions Only Here Staff Development day schedule of events 7:30 - 8:45 a.m Breakfast at Sayles Auditorium and the Main Green 9:15 – 10:00 a.m. Keynote Kickoff at Salomon Center 10:15 – 11:30 a.m Session I (various locations) 11:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Lunch in Sharpe Refectory 11:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. Leslie’s Farmers Market on Wriston Quad 1:15 – 2:30 p.m. Session II (various locations) 2:45 – 4:30 p.m. End of Day Celebration on the Main Green Staff Development Day 2022 Updates Health and Safety Protocols May 26, 2022 Given increased rates of COVID-19 in Providence County and across the country, Brown has re-instituted its requirement that all individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear a well-fitting KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical mask indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space or when actively eating or drinking. The requirement aligns with guidance from the CDC and recommendations from the Rhode Island Department of Health. Visitors and guests should bring with them to campus, and carry with them at all times, an approved mask. The indoor mask requirement applies to all University-sponsored events, on and off campus, taking place during Staff Development Day and to all attendees: faculty, students, staff, families, visitors, guests and vendors. Masks can be removed indoors by a speaker while making a presentation or delivering a speech. We strongly advise individuals to take a rapid antigen test prior to attending large indoor gatherings. Brown community members, visitors and guests should not attend any University events or functions if they test positive for COVID-19 and/or are experiencing potential symptoms of COVID-19. Please visit the Healthy Brown website for the most up-to-date information for faculty, staff and guests participating in Staff Development Day. NEW! Staff Development Day Engagement Toolkit May 2, 2022 This toolkit is designed with managers and staff in mind! Take a few minutes to look through the new Staff Development Day Engagement Toolkit, to learn about: An Overview of Staff Development Day Highlights and What’s New in 2022! The Schedule of Events on June 15, 2022 An Engagement Toolkit: Checklist Follow the link below to access a downloadable copy of the toolkit to customize and plan your Staff Development Day 2022 experience. The toolkit includes a before, during, and after checklist to set you and your team up for success! [Staff Development Day Engagement Toolkit] In 2015, Staff Development Day was honored with The Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) District 1 award in the Special Events category. The Circle of Excellence Awards showcase outstanding work in advancement services, alumni relations, communications, fundraising, and marketing. Staff Development Day Videos Staff Development Day 2018 Guinness World Record Staff Development Day Anniversary Video Video Staff Development Day 2022 Brown & Beyond Career & Professional Development Community Service Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Faculty Spotlight Health & Wellness Personal Growth & Development Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development B.E.A.R. Day Brown Leadership Institute Leadership Certification Program Leading From Where You Are Staff Development Day 2022 View All Sessions Instructor-led Sessions Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat