Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Training & Events Calendar Training & Events Calendar If your department or organization is interested in training, not listed below, or you would like to request a closed session, please email Emergency Management. Calendar Training Descriptions All training and events are available to students, faculty, and staff. Stop the Bleed Learn basic life-saving interventions, including bleeding control with a tourniquet and gauze packs. Active Threat Training - CRASE (Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events) Learn an intuitive, easy-to-remember three-step plan for survival in the event of an active shooter event or other act of violence. The Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) course, designed and built on the Avoid, Deny, Defend (ADD) strategy developed by ALERRT in 2004, provides strategies, guidance and a proven plan for surviving an active shooter event. Topics include the history and prevalence of active shooter events, civilian response options, and medical issues. Threat Assessment Awareness Gain a basic understanding of possible threats in our day to day lives and what faculty, staff, students, and others should do to protect themselves, others, and the SMU Campus. This class explains how the SMU community can be affected and how you, the community, can be targeted threats. Fire Extinguisher Training Learn how to successfully extinguish a fire! Building Emergency Coordination Team Workshop Designed to help potential and current individausl serving on a Building Emergency Coordination Team understand the program and roles of a BEC, ABEC, and Floor Captain. CPR/AED The Adult CPR/AED course incorporates the latest science and teaches students how to respond to breathing and cardiac emergencies for victims about 12 years and older. Students who successfully complete this course will receive a certificate for Adult CPR/AED valid for two years. Emergency Management AEDs & Bleed Control Units Safety App Building Emergency Action Plans Building Emergency Coordination Program Designations Emergency Guide SMU Alert Special Event Emergency Plan Training & Events Calendar Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share