Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application International Costs and Scholarships International Request Information Academics Cost + Aid STEM OPT Next Steps Housing Orientation Why ISU Frequently Asked Questions Student Ambassadors Immigration regulations require international students to verify the availability of financial resources to pay for all their educational, living and other expenses (and those of any dependents) for the duration of their studies prior to the issuance of the Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 to obtain a visa to enter the U.S. Estimated Annual Expenses View the most recent estimated annual expenses for undergraduates. Payment Plans We offer three different payment plans, so you can pay your semester fees all at once at the beginning of the term, in three deferred installments each semester, or on a 12-month payment plan. Tuition cannot be paid by credit card. If you elect to use one of the installment plans, you will be assessed a modest administrative charge each semester. See the Accounts Receivables Office website for more details. Student Employment Many Iowa State international students work on campus while enrolled. If you will be on an F-1 Student Visa, you may work on campus provided you are maintaining F-1 status, you do not work more than a total of 20 hours per week while school is in session, and you do not displace a U.S. resident. You may be employed full time during holidays and vacation periods, including summer vacations, if you’re eligible and intend to register for the next school term. Most on-campus jobs pay more than minimum wage (which is currently $7.25/hour). You will be required to pay income taxes on any wages you earn. Scholarships and Loans In general, international undergraduates are expected to fund their own education. Most of the money provided to Iowa State University comes from the State of Iowa or the Federal government and is therefore limited to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. However, qualified international students are welcome to apply for any Iowa State scholarships that do not have those limitations, and do not require submissions of the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). International Excellence Awards International Merit Scholarships Iowa State University Scholarships Anne Doyle International Student Award Return to Iowa Generations Scholarship General information on scholarships and loans available to international students. (This listing is for informational purposes only, and does not imply endorsement by Iowa State University.) Abroad Planet Scholarship Resources American Association of University Women International Fellowships BestColleges Education USA EduPASS eStudentLoan FastWeb Fulbright Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation Institute of International Education Funding US Study Institute of International Education International Education Financial Aid Leo S. Rowe Pan American Fund Muslim Student Scholarship Opportunities NAFSA: Association of International Educators Online College Scholarships and Degree Programs Rotary International The College Board Scholarship Search The Princeton Review The Scholarship Page Apply Every Cyclone adventure begins with a first step. Apply now so you can start taking the world by storm. Start Your Adventure Visit Us Virtually Take a look around, and we’re sure you’ll fall in love with our beautiful, nationally recognized campus. Virtual Campus Tour Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...