Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Graduate and Professional Student Senate Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search ISU Grad Stories Archives New Home Senate Meetings Executive Council Current Senators Senate Committees University Committees Legislation Important Documents For Students Awards Margaret Ellen White Award Teaching Award Research Award Leadership Award Wakonse Conference Allocations Events Resources Wellness Week Join GPSS PAG Policies & Procedures Deadlines FAQ Apply Now Conference Home Program 2022 Moments Poster and Orals Speakers Committee Volunteer Why attend GPSC? FAQ Archive History Former Executive Members Former Senators Former Senate Committees Former University Committees Former Conference Organizing Committee Members Previous award winners Past Events Galleries Graduate and Professional Student Senate Founded in 1970, it is the recognized independent representative body of graduate students at ISU; it is charged with representing the graduate and professional students' perspective on campus issues and serving as a liaison between graduate/professional students, University administration, and the Board of Regents. The Graduate and Professional Student Senate (GPSS) is an elected governing body through which graduate and professional students express their concern for the welfare of graduate and professional students at Iowa State University, develop and disseminate ideas for the improvement of graduate and professional education, and contribute to the formation of relevant University policies. Quick links Find your Senator See the Senate Schedule and Materials Lean about our annual Conference and Awards Apply for graduate organization funds Apply for travel assistance funds Please see Iowa State University's land acknowledgement statement of Ioway Nation territory here, and more about the current Meskwaki Nation in Iowa here. Announcements: As of April 2021, there is a NEW SENATOR NOMINATION FORM that can be filled out by the nominated senator OR the department contact/DOGE. ---Questions/concerns about this new form can be directed to the Senate Information Officer at gpssSIO@iastate.edu. COVID-19 Updates: Cyclones Care has up-to-date information about campus policies, vaccine clinic hours/availability, and covid-19 testing. Research and Resources has statistics, publications, and information at the state, region, and global level. The Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization have some helpful tips on managing stress and anxiety during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Iowa State University Thielen Student Health Center also has a page providing helpful COVID-19 information for students. This BBC article also has some tips for mental wellbeing during this time. The Student Wellness Division has some helpful tips for students and employees, and action plans to support student and employee wellbeing. News Apr 22, 2021 GPSS Re-Joins NAGPS "The National Association of Graduate-Professional Students (NAGPS) is a student-run national, non-profit organization dedicated to improving the quality of life of graduate & professional students across the United States. Founded by student leaders in 1987, NAGPS is the only nationa Read More Apr 19, 2021 Wellness Week Our Annual Graduate Student Wellness Week is this Monday, April 19th to Friday, April 23rd. Read More Apr 19, 2021 GPSC session winners announced! Congratulations to all who participated, and a special congratulations to our session winners listed in the flyer and below: 2021 Read More Apr 10, 2021 2021 GPSS Award winners released! These awards are to highlight the achievements of our graduate/professional students in the areas of Leadership, Teaching, and Research. Thank you to all who applied, and congratulations to the selected recipients listed in the flyer and below: Read More Apr 08, 2021 GPSC Begins This conference is open to all graduate/professional students to share their research, hone their presentation skills, and learn from their peers. Registration is free, as well as access to the Keynote speaker the night prior to the conference. Read More Mar 29, 2021 GPSS Executive Council 2021-2022 Congratulations to our upcoming officers for the 2021-2022 year! Read More May 19, 2020 Margaret Ellen White Award Receipents We are excited to announce that the recipients of this year's Margaret Ellen White award are Dr. Denise Schmidt-Crawford & Dr. Cathy Miller. Read More Apr 29, 2020 GPSS Award Winners Professional Advancement Grants Committee of GPSS has finalized the review of Awards for the 2019-2020 academic year. The following graduate students are named as Teaching, Research, and Leadership Awards winners. Congratulations to all award recipients! Read More Mar 12, 2020 COVID-19 Updates The GPSS is monitoring the current COVID-19 outbreak and its effects on Iowa State University and the Ames community. Read More Get in touch! Title Name Pronouns Email President Chelsea Iennarella-Servantez she/her/hers gpsspresident@iastate.edu Vice President Rachel Sorensen she/her/hers gpssvicepres@iastate.edu Treasurer Zakayo "Zak" Kazibwe he/him/his gpsstreasurer@iastate.edu Senate Information Officer OPEN POSITION Senate Engagement Officer Carrie Ann Johnson she/her/hers gpssseo@iastate.edu Conference Officer Kevin Chiteri he/him/his gpssconfchair@iastate.edu Wellness Officer Abbey Boyd she/her/hers gpsswellness@iastate.edu GPSS works closely with Student Government, meet our GPSS Senators-at-Large Senator-at-Large Bailey Goff she/her/hers bgoff@iastate.edu Senator-at-Large John Carter he/him/his carter19@iastate.edu Senator-at-Large Brittany Skag she/her/hers bmskaggs@iastate.edu GPSS Social Media Coordinator: OPEN POSITION Graduate College Student Government (Affiliate Senate) COVID19 Resources Student Wellness Thielen Student Health Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information