Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Research Scholars The Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars Program for Clinical Fellows and Junior Faculty is made possible through the generous support of the family of Alan Hassenfeld. Two research scholars will be chosen annually to participate in the program. The selected Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars will play active roles in the work of the institute under the mentorship of institute-affiliated faculty, while gaining outstanding training opportunities for their future careers in maternal and child health. The Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars will also receive scholarship support to participate in the Clinical and Translational Research certificate program at Brown University. The Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars Program will embrace Brown’s “learning by doing” approach to engaged scholarship. This will provide the Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars the opportunity to make meaningful contributions to the work of the institute while gaining the knowledge, skills, perspective and experience they will need to become the next generation of child health leaders. Applications are now open for the 2021 program. Applications are due by July 21, 2021. Please see below for details on eligibility and the application process. Eligibility Any clinical fellow in Brown-affiliated fellowships relevant to maternal and child health or maternal and child health clinical faculty who are at the rank of assistant professor or instructor as of July 1, 2021, are eligible to apply to the Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars Program. Research Focus A broad range of maternal and child health topics may be appropriate for the Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars Program. The institute embraces the World Health Organization’s definition of health as a “state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.” Topics could include mental health, physical health, risk reduction or optimal growth and development, including school and social functioning. The focus includes maternal health and its influence on child health, as well as family influences more broadly. Application Process Applicants should submit the following by email to [email protected]: 1. A current CV 2. A 500-1,000-word essay describing the applicant’s: a. Research interests b. Career plans c. Reasons for wanting to become a Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholar 3. The names of up to two faculty from whom the applicant has requested letters of recommendation. This must include the applicant’s fellowship director, division director or department chair. Up to one additional letter of reference may be requested from a current or past mentor. Letters of reference must be emailed by the letter writer from their institutional email address to [email protected] All application materials (including letters of reference) must be received by July 21, 2021. Criteria for Selection Criteria for selection to the program include the following: · The academic performance and future promise of the applicant · The applicant’s potential to benefit from the program · The match of the applicant with the goals and activities of the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Benefits of the Program and Award Conditions In addition to receiving scholarship support for the Certificate Program in Clinical and Translational Research, Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars will actively participate in research activities of the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute, receiving mentorship from institute faculty and staff. The Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars will have up to a three-year term, dependent on remaining in a fellow or faculty position in the clinical department at Brown University. Hassenfeld Institute Research Scholars must remain in good standing in their Brown-affiliated clinical fellowship or clinical department faculty position and make satisfactory progress on their work with the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute. They must also remain in good academic standing and make appropriate progress in the Clinical and Translational Research Certificate Program. 2020 Clinical Fellows Kate Powers, DO Kate Powers is a pediatric pulmonologist and clinical researcher at Hasbro Children's Hospital/Rhode Island Hospital and an assistant professor of pediatrics at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Kate is also associate director of the Pediatric Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Program and a board member of the CF Foundation, Rhode Island Chapter. Kate earned her bachelor's degree in psychology from Boston University and her DO from University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine. She completed her residency in pediatric medicine at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine, as well as a fellowship in pediatric pulmonology at Johns Hopkins University. She has received several honors and awards, include the Madeline McCormick Women's Mentoring Scholarship while in medical school. Her primary interest is understanding how to motivate and support children and adolescents with chronic lung disease to sustain physical activity, thereby maintaining lung function and living healthier lives. Melissa Russo, MD Melissa Russo is a physician at Women & Infants Hospital specializing in maternal-fetal medicine and genetics and an assistant professor of maternal-fetal medicine and genetics at The Warren Alpert Medical School at Brown University. Melissa is also a member of the advisory panel on precision medicine and prenatal genetics with the American College of Obstetrics & Gynecology. Melissa earned her bachelor's degree in neuroscience from Colgate University in Hamilton, New York, and her MD from Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, D.C. Melissa completed her residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Johns Hopkins University and a combined fellowship in maternal-fetal medicine and clinical genetics, also at Johns Hopkins. She has received many honors and awards, including the Howard Hughes Medical Institute-NIH Research Scholarship during medical school. The primary focus of her research is pregnancy and reproductive health outcomes in women with connective tissue disorders, and she wants to examine the factors that influence a health care provider's management decisions with these patients. 2019 Clinical Fellows Nina Ayala, MD Nina Ayala is a Maternal Fetal Medicine Fellow at Women & Infants Hospital. Nina earned her bachelor's degree in neuroscience from Brown University before attending the Warren Alpert Medical School, where she concentrated in medical education. Nina completed her residency in obstetrics/gynecology at McGaw Medical Center at Northwestern University. She is the recipient of many honors and awards, including the Bray Fellowship in Humanism in Medicine and the Jack and Edna Saphier Award in Obstetrics and Gynecology while at Alpert Medical School. Her primary research interest is patient-centered outcomes, particularly, how personality characteristics of pregnant women and their physicians impact antepartum and peripartum outcomes. She is interested in how the labor and delivery process, treatment of common pregnancy complications and mode of delivery impact long-term neonatal and childhood outcomes. Devina Savant, MD Devina Savant is a developmental and behavioral pediatrics fellow at Hasbro Children's Hospital. Devina graduated with top honors from Topiwala National Medical College in Mumbai, India. She completed her residency in pediatrics at Harlem Hospital Center in New York. Devina is interested in studying food insecurity status and trends, interventions used to combat food insecurity in both India and the United States and how cultural beliefs, eating patterns and access to food stamps and food rations interact with these patterns. Ultimately, Devina aims to work in an academic setting where she can continue her clinical work of supporting children with developmental and behavioral needs and their families. 2018 Clinical Fellows Starrina Gianelloni, DO, FAAP Starrina Gianelloni is a developmental and behavioral pediatrics fellow at Hasbro Children's Hospital. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Washington, Seattle, and her Doctor of Osteopathy from Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine in Kirksville, Missouri. She completed her residency in general pediatrics at the Louisiana State University in New Orleans. She is a distinguished graduate of the Commissioned Officer Training School of Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. After completing her residency, she was the chief of pediatric services at Yokota Air Base in Japan and flight commander of Educational & Developmental Intervention Services at Aviana Air Base in Italy. Starrina is interested in the association between the use of developmental services and excess media exposure among young children and understanding why young children with disabilities are using so much digital media. 2017 Clinical Fellows Martha Kole, MD Martha Kole is a Maternal Fetal Medicine Fellow at Women & Infants Hospital. Prior to this fellowship, she completed her residency at Women & Infants Hospital and medical school at the University of Pennsylvania. Martha is primarily interested in health care quality, specifically, how new practice guidelines are implemented at a hospital-wide level. Additionally, she has a passion for reducing maternal mortality and optimizing maternal health. Nicole Muhlbauer, MD Nicole Muhlbauer is currently a physician in pediatric hematology and oncology at Stony Brook Medicine. Nicole attended St. George's University School of Medicine in Grenada, West Indies, before completing her residency in pediatrics at the University of Arizona. She was a pediatric hematology/oncology fellow at Hasbro Children’s Hospital, where she completed a spatial analysis project that aimed to understand the relationship between environmental exposures and the development of pediatric cancer in Rhode Island. She hopes that her research will impact future pediatric health policy. 2016 Clinical Fellows Catherine Buck, MD Catherine (Caty) Buck is currently an assistant professor in the Division of Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine at Yale School of Medicine. She was a pediatric fellow in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine at Women and Infants Hospital/Alpert Medical School and worked with the child environmental health group at the School of Public Health studying how prenatal exposure to environmental chemicals may alter infant birth weight and child growth trajectories. Caty graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University of Connecticut and also attended medical school at UConn. Caty completed her pediatric residency at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, Texas, where she also served as chief resident. Her research interests include the intersection of maternal health and neonatal and child health outcomes. Maureen S. Hamel, MD Maureen Hamel is currently a physician specializing in obstetrics and gynecology in the Maternal-Fetal Medicine division of UPMC-Magee Women's Hospital in Pittsburgh. She was a Maternal Fetal Medicine Fellow at Women & Infants Hospital, where her primary research interest was in clinical obstetrics, particularly antibiotic use in labor and how to best manage labor for women with gestational diabetes. Maureen received her bachelor's degree in psychology from Providence College before attending Tufts University School of Medicine. She completed her residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Women & Infants Hospital. Community of Learners Summer Scholars Research Scholars Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top