Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Hospitality Management News UCF Grad Named Executive Director of Legacy Pointe at UCF Josh Smith ’04, a hospitality management alum, was selected to lead the new senior living community near campus. Rosen College Degree Programs Ranked in Top 10 Hospitality and tourism management online graduate program and entertainment management undergraduate program highlighted among nation’s best. UCF Class Spotlight: Exploring Wines of the World Want to learn how to select the best wine for any occasion? This is the course for you. How One Alumna Is Embracing Zenn Through Farming Through Zenn Naturals, first-generation farmers Jennifer Kauffman ’09 and her husband are cultivating relationships with Central Florida restaurants. UCF Student Veteran’s Inspiring Personal Mission to Be Part of the Magic UCF has nearly 1,600 student veterans, a population that has grown from about 200 in 2006. One of these veterans is junior hospitality management major… 7 Questions with Nicole Cutrufo ‘13 Guest Service and Attractions Executive at Cinecittà World Current Location: Rome, Italy From Unemployment to Celebrity Weddings and Professional Sports Internships with the Vans Warped Tour, the Starbucks VIA Taste Tour, and Super Bowl XVIII appeared to place former event management and hospitality management double major… How Mobile Devices Increase Student Engagement Via Response, a cloud-based student response platform designed to engage today’s mobile app generation, will be hosting a 60-minute webinar on June 26th demonstrating how… Bradenton Area CVB Partners with UCF’s Rosen College to Launch Ambassador Program The Dick Pope Senior Institute for Tourism Studies, housed in the University of Central Florida’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management, is pleased to announce its… Virtual Program Empowers UCF Rosen College’s Future Hotel Leaders The University of Central Florida’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management recently gave new meaning to the term “on-the-job training,” as 20 undergraduate students virtually stepped… UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida