Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Computer Engineering (MSCpE) Join One of the Top Engineering Schools in the Nation Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Power Modern Technology to Help Solve Real-World Problems The master’s in computer engineering program at UCF covers a variety of areas related to computer systems and VLSI design, software engineering and algorithms, intelligent systems and Machine Learning, computer networks and computer security, as well as simulation systems. Your coursework will cover a broad background in various technical areas; however, you’ll have the opportunity to specialize in a research area of your interest. Fundamental and applied research encompass a wide spectrum of subjects, from computer architecture and evolvable hardware to micro-and nano-electronics to networked dynamical systems and cooperative control. This transformational research supports sustainable economic growth, national security and an improved quality of life. Broad impacts of these research are facilitated by its centers led by and/or affiliated with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering: the FEEDER Consortium funded by the U.S. Department of Energy and the Electric Vehicle Transportation Center funded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Through hands-on learning experiences both inside and outside of the classroom, you’ll gain a high level of competency in understanding, applying and enunciating the modern concepts, principles, methods, and theories necessary for the design and implementation of computing systems. Our graduates leave the program prepared to continue their studies toward a Ph.D. or directly enter industry and government positions. Computer Engineering (MSCpE) – Accelerated BSCpE to MScPE The accelerated BSCpE to MScPE program provides an opportunity for computer engineering and electrical engineering undergraduates to earn their bachelor’s and master’s degrees in five years. This allows students to dual count 12 credit hours of 5000- or 6000-level courses — with a grade of B or better — toward both the BS and MS requirements. Request Information Highlights UCF’s computer engineering graduate program ranked No. 51 in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as the No. 71 Best Engineering School in the nation. Job growth for computer engineers is expected to exceed 14 percent over the next decade. Computer engineering graduates earn an annual average salary of $101K nationwide. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Advanced Computer Architecture Learn about modern processor design, instruction-level parallelism, thread-level parallelism, data-level parallelism, memory hierarchy and I/O. Machine Learning Explore the origin/evaluation of machine intelligence; machine learning concepts and their applications in problem solving, planning and “expert systems” symbolic role of human and computers. Software Engineering Study the application of formal software processes, engineering methods and documentation standards to the development of large-scale software systems. A team project is required. View All MS in Computer Engineering Courses You’ll Take Computer Engineering Skills You'll Learn Identify, formulate and solve complex computer engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science and math. Collaborate effectively with various teams whose members provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks and meet objectives. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in computer engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental and societal contexts. Career Opportunities Electronics Engineer Cyber/Information Security Engineer Computer Systems Engineer Mobile Applications Developer Computer Programmer Software Engineer Data Engineer Software QA Tester/Engineer Network Engineer/Architect Hardware Engineer Admission Requirements We recommend that computer engineering applicants hold a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering or a closely related discipline. Depending on your undergraduate program of study, additional courses may be required to correct any course deficiencies. Additionally, a GRE may not be required if your bachelor’s degree is in electrical engineering or computer engineering with an appropriate minor. Applications to the program are accepted for the fall and spring semesters, and all required materials need to be submitted prior to the application deadline. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: Official transcripts Letters of recommendation Resume Statement of educational, research and professional career objectives Request Information College of Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Computer Engineering (MSPE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Computer Engineering (MSPE) program offered at UCF. Loading... × Program Prerequisites A bachelor's degree in computer engineering or a closely related discipline. Articulation Courses Undergraduate articulation courses are required for students with bachelor's degrees in fields other than Computer Engineering. In general, all students must have completed the following undergraduate courses (or their equivalents in an accredited BSCpE program) before admission to our graduate program. Students who have taken these courses must complete the articulation courses listed below, plus all prerequisites, that they require. Grades of "B" or higher must be obtained in each articulation course. Articulation courses are not eligible for inclusion on a student's Graduate Program of Study. EEE 3342C: Digital Systems EEL 3801: Computer Organization COP 3502: Computer Science I COP 3503: Computer Science II Plus choose ONE of the following: COP 4331: Processes for Object-Oriented Development EEL 4768C: Computer Architecture EEL 4781: Computer Communications Networks Degree Requirements Elective Courses 24 Total Credits There are no required courses within a specialization area. However, all students (thesis and nonthesis) must choose at least 24 credit hours of formal courses, excluding research-related courses and independent study (XXX 6908), which emphasize their specialization area. Courses from outside specialization areas could also be chosen if the student's adviser approves such a Program of Study. The Program of Study (POS) form must be approved by an adviser in the selected specialization area no later than the end of the second semester after admission. The program of study must meet all the university requirements specified in the graduate catalog and must also receive departmental-level and college-level approval. Specialization Areas 24 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following The Computer Engineering Program supports a number of specialization areas. These specialization areas are (in alphabetical order): Computer Networks and Computer Security (CNCS), Computer Systems and VLSI Design (CS/VLSI), Intelligent Systems and Machine Learning (ISML), and Software Systems and Algorithms (SSA). In each one of these areas there is a suggested list of courses Students are also allowed to take courses from the suggested list of courses in areas other than their specialization area, but the majority of their courses should be chosen from courses in their specialization area. Computer Networks and Computer Security (CNCS) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: CDA5106 - Advanced Computer Architecture (3) CDA5110 - Parallel Architecture and Algorithms (3) CDA6530 - Performance Models of Computers and Networks (3) CGS5131 - Computer Forensics I: Seizure and Examination of Computer Systems (3) CNT5008 - Computer Communication Networks Architecture (3) CNT6418 - Computer Forensics II (3) CNT6519 - Wireless Security and Forensics (3) CNT6707 - Advanced Computer Networks (3) COP5537 - Network Optimization (3) COP5611 - Operating Systems Design Principles (3) CAP6133 - Advanced Topics in Computer Security and Computer Forensics (3) CAP6135 - Malware and Software Vulnerability Analysis (3) COT5405 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms (3) EEE5542 - Random Processes I (3) EEL5780 - Wireless Networks (3) EEL6762 - Performance Analysis of Computer and Communication Systems (3) EEL6785 - Computer Network Design (3) EEL6788 - Advanced Topics in Computer Networks (3) EEL6883 - Software Engineering II (3) Computer Systems and Very Large Scale Integration (CS/VLSI) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: CDA5106 - Advanced Computer Architecture (3) CDA5110 - Parallel Architecture and Algorithms (3) CDA6107 - Parallel Computer Architecture (3) CDA6938 - Special Topics (3) COP5537 - Network Optimization (3) EEE5390C - Full-Custom VLSI Design (3) EEL5722C - Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Design (3) EEL6762 - Performance Analysis of Computer and Communication Systems (3) ECM6308 - Current Topics in Parallel Processing (3) Intelligent Systems and Machine Learning (ISML) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: CAP5055 - AI for Game Programming (3) CAP5512 - Evolutionary Computation (3) CAP5610 - Machine Learning (3) CAP5636 - Advanced Artificial Intelligence (3) CAP6545 - Machine Learning Methods for Biomedical Data (3) CAP6616 - Neuroevolution and Generative and Developmental Systems (3) CAP6640 - Computer Understanding of Natural Language (3) CAP6671 - Intelligent Systems: Robots, Agents, and Humans (3) CAP6675 - Complex Adaptive Systems (3) CAP6676 - Knowledge Representation (3) EEL5825 - Pattern Recognition and Learning from Big Data (3) EEL5874 - Expert Systems and Knowledge Engineering (3) EEL6812 - Introduction to Neural Networks (3) EEL6875 - Autonomous Agents (3) EEL6878 - Modeling and Artificial Intelligence (3) Software Systems and Algorithms (SSA) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: CAP6515 - Algorithms in Computational Biology (3) CGS5131 - Computer Forensics I: Seizure and Examination of Computer Systems (3) CNT6418 - Computer Forensics II (3) CAP5510 - Bioinformatics (3) CAP6133 - Advanced Topics in Computer Security and Computer Forensics (3) CAP6545 - Machine Learning Methods for Biomedical Data (3) CEN5016 - Software Engineering (3) CEN6075 - Formal Specification of Software Systems (3) COP5021 - Program Analysis (3) COP5711 - Parallel and Distributed Database Systems (3) COP6730 - Transaction Processing (3) COP6731 - Advanced Database Systems (3) COT5405 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms (3) COT6410 - Computational Complexity (3) COT6417 - Algorithms on Strings and Sequences (3) COT5600 - Quantum Computing (3) COT6602 - Introduction to Quantum Information Theory (3) EEL6883 - Software Engineering II (3) Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: EEL 6971 Thesis The thesis option requires 24 credit hours of formal coursework in one of the specialization areas and the completion of 6 credit hours of thesis. Additional requirements are as follows: - Courses must be chosen from the suggested list of courses for the student's chosen specialization area - No more than 6 credits of thesis (XXX 6971) will be counted toward the degree requirement - Fifteen credit hours (including EEL 6971 Thesis) must be 6000-level courses - Thesis students who are full time must continue to enroll in three credit hours of thesis coursework each semester until the thesis requirement is satisfied, even if they take more than the required 6 credit hours of thesis. However, only 6 credit hours of thesis will count toward the degree requirement. The College of Engineering and Computer Science requires that all thesis defense announcements are approved by the student's adviser and posted on the college's website and on the university-wide Events Calendar at the College of Graduate Studies website at least two weeks before the defense date. Nonthesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Electives from the list above. The nonthesis option is especially suitable for part-time students. Nonthesis students must complete 6 credit hours of electives in addition to the 24 credit hours of formal coursework described above. If desired by the student and approved by the student's adviser a total of 6 credit hours can be Independent Study (XXX 6908). Portfolio Requirement 0 Total Credits Students are required to complete a culminating experience. The culminating experience for nonthesis MS students is submission of their portfolio of activities by the course Withdrawal Date of the semester prior to their intended graduation. The portfolio requirements are listed on the EECS website at www.eecs.ucf.edu. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirement, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A bachelor's degree in computer engineering or a closely related discipline. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Two letters of recommendation. Résumé. Statement of educational, research, and professional career objectives. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting applicants into their research program. Additional courses may also be required to correct any course deficiencies. Students should contact the graduate program director for further information. Application Deadlines Computer Engineering MSCpE *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida