Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Human Resources Staff Directory HR Services Holidays Newsletters Posters Calendars Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action WorkforUM Focus on Finance & HR Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online Instagramtwitter Home Human Resources Employee Relations - Performance Management Assessments Performance Management & the Staff Assessment Management System (SAMS) The University is committed to ensuring the success of its faculty, staff and students as we assess the performance of our staff employees. The Performance Management Process and the Staff Assessment Management System (SAMS) provides opportunities for coaching, mentoring, feedback and recognition. Our process allows managers and supervisors to tie goals and achievements to employee development, promotional opportunity and compensation through merit pay. THE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CYCLE Effective Performance Management Assessments follow a Performance Management Cycle: Set Performance Standards and Goals Communicate Standards and Expectations Monitor Employee Performance All Year Give Ongoing Feedback Write and Conduct the Performance Appraisal in SAMS At the beginning of the period for which you will appraise the employee (usually 12 months prior), discuss with the employee the importance of goals and expectations as it relates to their job responsibilities. Managers and supervisors should provide ongoing feedback while monitoring performance throughout the year. Goals should be aligned with the division and ultimately, the University’s strategic goals. COACHING AND MENTORING The Performance Management Process affords supervisors and managers the opportunity to engage employees in coaching and mentoring. Coaching and mentoring are development approaches used to enhance an individual’s knowledge, skills, or work performance. Coaching is usually short term while mentoring establishes a longer relationship. They are both geared towards employee learning and development which can lead to peak performance. WRITING THE REVIEW The end of the performance management cycle is the time when managers and supervisors complete the performance appraisal in SAMS. Comments are required for each factor and should reflect the performance, achievement, or areas of opportunity to assist with employee development. Note actual examples of job performance that support your comments. Goals should be identified and captured in SAMS for all employees. In some cases, departments may identify standard goals for the same group of employees (e.g. landscape workers & custodians). SAMPLE COMMENTS Quality of Work Projects are always completed on time with few errors. Once the employee did not know if all University documents needed to have the University logo and date, but she contacted the Media Relations department for advice before printing the document. It is recommended for the next review period that the employee familiarize herself with University branding requirements for printed and electronic documents. Job Knowledge The Project Coordinator is responsible for streamlining processes and researching best practices. She did an outstanding job on eliminating manual processes and creating workflows based on current research. The information was used to produce online training that reduced the cost of printed workbooks. Click here to access the Staff Assessment Management System (SAMS). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/22/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.