Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Astrophysicists find a way to form dark matter-deficient galaxies By Liz Fuller-Wright, Princeton University, and Lucas Van Wyk Joel, University of California-Irvine Feb. 14, 2022, 11 a.m. In a new Nature Astronomy study, an international team of astrophysicists report how, when tiny galaxies collide with bigger ones, the bigger galaxies can strip the smaller galaxies of their dark matter — matter that we can’t see directly, but which astrophysicists think must exist because, without its gravitational effects, they couldn’t explain things like the motions of a galaxy’s stars. It’s a mechanism that has the potential to explain how galaxies might be able to exist without dark matter — something once thought impossible. This image from a new computer simulation shows the dark matter distribution in a simulated galaxy group, with brighter areas showing higher concentrations of dark matter. The circles show close-up images of the stellar light associated with two galaxies lacking dark matter. If these galaxies had dark matter, they would appear as bright regions in the main image. Image by Alex Gurvich, Northwestern University It started in 2018 when two astrophysicists — Shany Danieli, a NASA Hubble Fellow and Carnegie-Princeton Fellow in Princeton’s Department of Astrophysical Sciences, and Pieter van Dokkum, a professor of physics and astronomy at Yale University — observed two galaxies that seemed to exist without most of their dark matter. “We were expecting large fractions of dark matter,” said Danieli, who’s a co-author on the latest study. “It was a complete surprise.” That find, which Danieli and van Dokkum reported on in a Nature paper in 2018 and several followup articles, threw the galaxies-need-dark-matter paradigm into turmoil, potentially upending what astrophysicists had come to see as a standard model for how galaxies work. “It’s been established for the last 40 years that galaxies have dark matter,” said Jorge Moreno, an astronomy professor at Pomona College who’s the lead author of the new paper. “In particular, low-mass galaxies tend to have significantly higher dark matter fractions, making Danieli’s finding quite surprising. For many of us, this meant that our current understanding of how dark matter helps galaxies grow needed an urgent revision.” To that end, the team ran computer models that simulated the evolution of a chunk of the universe — one about 60 million light years across — starting soon after the Big Bang and running all the way to the present. In their model, the team found seven galaxies devoid of dark matter. After several collisions with neighboring galaxies 1,000 times more massive, they were stripped of most of their material, leaving behind nothing but stars and some residual dark matter. “It was pure serendipity,” said Moreno. “The moment I made the first images, I shared them immediately with Danieli, and invited her to collaborate.” “It was mind-blowing,” said Danieli. “Not as mind-blowing as the real universe, but seeing the dark matter-free galaxies in the simulation surely brought up a lot of excitement. What’s really cool is that the simulation wasn’t designed in any way to generate these dark matter deficient galaxies, but when Jorge carefully searched through the simulation data, he found seven! Seven galaxies that seem to lack their dark matter. This is the first time that anyone saw it in this type of simulation. The findings also provide interesting predictions which we hope to further test observationally.” Robert Feldmann, a professor at the University of Zurich who designed the new simulation, said that “this theoretical work shows that dark matter-deficient galaxies should be very common, especially in the vicinity of massive galaxies.” James Bullock, an astrophysicist and professor at the University of California-Irvine who’s a world-renowned expert on low-mass galaxies, described how he and the team didn’t build their model just so they could create galaxies without dark matter — something he said makes the model stronger because it wasn’t designed in any way to create the collisions that they eventually found. “We don’t presuppose the interactions,” said Bullock. Confirming that galaxies lacking dark matter can be explained in a universe where there’s lots of dark matter brought a sigh of relief for researchers like Bullock, whose career and everything he’s discovered therein hinges on dark matter being the thing that makes galaxies behave the way they do. “The observation that there are dark matter-free galaxies has been a little bit worrying to me,” said Bullock. “We have a successful model, developed over decades of hard work, where most of the matter in the cosmos is dark. There is always the possibility that nature has been fooling us.” But, Moreno said, this new model confirmed that “you don’t have to get rid of the standard dark matter paradigm.” That standard cosmological model, including the importance of dark matter, was developed in large part by Jeremiah Ostriker, the Charles A. Young Professor of Astronomy on the Class of 1897 Foundation, Emeritus, with James Peebles, Princeton’s Albert Einstein Professor of Science, Emeritus and an emeritus professor of physics who won the 2019 Nobel Prize in physics for his foundational cosmology work. Now that astrophysicists know how a galaxy might lose its dark matter, Moreno and his collaborators hope the findings inspire researchers who look at the night sky to look for real-world massive galaxies they might be in the process of stripping dark matter away from smaller ones. “It still doesn’t mean this model is right,” Bullock said. “A real test will be to see if these things exist with the frequency and general characteristics that match our predictions.” As part of this new work, Moreno, who has Indigenous roots, received permission from Cherokee leaders to name the seven dark matter-free galaxies found in their simulations in honor of the seven Cherokee clans: Bird, Blue, Deer, Long Hair, Paint, Wild Potato and Wolf. “I feel a personal connection to these galaxies,” said Moreno, who added that, just as the more massive galaxies robbed the smaller galaxies of their dark matter, “many people of Indigenous ancestry were stripped of our culture. But our core remains, and we are still thriving.” Finding the first galaxies lacking dark matter, and now finding a possible way to form them, brings scientists “one step closer to answering what is to me the most interesting and important question in astronomy and astrophysics today: What is dark matter?” said Danieli. "Galaxies lacking dark matter produced by close encounters in a cosmological simulation” by Jorge Moreno, Shany Danieli, James S. Bullock, Robert Feldmann, Philip F. Hopkins, Onur Çatmabacak, Alexander Gurvich, Alexandres Lazar, Courtney Klein, Cameron B. Hummels, Zachary Hafen, Francisco J. Mercado, Sijie Yu, Fangzhou Jiang, Coral Wheeler, Andrew Wetzel, Daniel Anglés-Alcázar, Michael Boylan-Kolchin, Eliot Quataert, Claude-André Faucher-Giguère and Dušan Kereš, appears in the current issue of Nature Astronomy (DOI: 10.1038/s41550-021-01598-4). Funding for the work came from the National Science Foundation, sabbatical leave support for Moreno from Pomona College and the Harry and Grace Steele Foundation, and, for Danieli, from NASA through Hubble Fellowship grant HST-HF2-51454.001-A awarded by the Space Telescope Science Institute, which is operated by the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy, Incorporated, under NASA contract NAS5-26555. Other collaborators include Francisco Mercado, Courtney Klein and Zachary Hafen, all from the University of California-Irvine. Related Stories Astronomers find hyperactive galaxies in the early universe Read more Princeton astrophysicists are closing in on the Hubble constant Read more Black hole, star collisions may illuminate universe's dark side Read more Sloan team on a quest for the universe's 'rare birds' Read more Galactic center's gamma rays unlikely to originate from dark matter, evidence shows Read more New view of nature’s oldest light adds fresh twist to debate over universe’s age Read more Princeton professors to lead NASA science team probing universe and planets Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice