Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduates Graduating Students Attendance & Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord & Stole Policy Student Speaker Selection Conduct Guidelines Dress Undergraduates Undergraduate ChecklistHonors Distinction Graduate Students Graduate Student Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Law Student ChecklistLaw School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs for Graduates Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Graduates Hooding Information Hooding Information Instructions for Wearing Regalia Hood To insure proper fit of your hood, we suggest that men wear a dress shirt and women wear a blouse with buttons or a suit. Hold the hood in your hand by the velvet at the narrowest point. The loop should be hanging straight down. Grasp the loop in your right hand and place the hood over your head so the loop continues to hang straight down in front of your neck. Fasten the loop over a button on your shirt/blouse or jacket, or you may pin it in place. This will prevent the hood from pressing on your throat. Midway down the back of the hood you will find another satin cord and loop. Fasten this loop around the button on the inside of the hood to prevent the hood from falling off your shoulders. This may require the assistance of another person. Be sure to have someone "fluff" the back of the hood just below the button, by turning the velvet side underneath to expose the satin colors on the inside. Doctoral hooding ceremony The day of graduation, please arrive 45 minutes before the processional and follow the doctoral signs to meet up with all participating doctoral students and your doctoral Faculty Marshal. The Doctoral Faculty Marshal will answer questions. Candidates should have their hood with them, to place over the back of their chairs, along with their pronouncer cards. Once the marshal has completed his instructions, he will organize the processional line. March in with your hood. Unsnap the button to make the hooding process smoother. Doctoral Marshal will be at Commencement to assist you with questions. Please speak to your Major Professor prior to or at the end of the ceremony. In order to keep the ceremony moving quickly, please shake hands with faculty and deans only. You will have time to meet with faculty members after the event. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/22/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.