Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research Development & Communications Menu Search Limited Submissions <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Limited Submission Notices of Intent are now submitted through Competition Space. To submit your notice, go to https://ttu.infoready4.com and click on “Limited Submission Notice of Intent.” Click the “Apply” button and login through the “Texas Tech University Login” option. You will use your eRaider login. Fill in the necessary information on the application form. Once your application is completed, click on “Submit.” What is a Limited Submission? Many federal, state and private funding agencies issue requests for proposals that limit the number of applications they will accept from an institution. Texas Tech University has established a process to identify limited submission opportunities and internally select applicants to submit full proposals in response to a particular program. The following policy is designed to support an equitable review process while preventing any submission disqualifications due to submissions from Texas Tech University beyond the allowed number. Process NOTE: A Notice of Intent (NOI) and internal proposal (if required) will be due to https://ttu.infoready4.com by 5:00 p.m. on the deadline (TTU Notice of Intent Deadline) identified on the Limited Submission webpage. Any NOIs or internal proposals submitted after the deadline will not be accepted. Limited Submission Notices of Intent are now submitted through Competition Space. To submit your notice, go to https://ttu.infoready4.com and click on "Limited Submission Notice of Intent." Click the "Apply" button and login through the "Texas Tech University Login" option. You will use your eRaider login. Fill in the necessary information on the application form. Once your application is completed, click on "Submit." NO Competition: Identify desired submission opportunity Submit NOI to ORD by TTU Notice of Intent Deadline If less NOIs submitted than required, ORD notifies PI to move forward with full proposal Competition: Identify desired submission opportunity Submit NOI to ORD by TTU Notice of Intent Deadline If more NOIs submitted than requires, ORD notifies PI of requirements and due date of documents. Peer Review Team reviews and scores internal proposal. Highest score(s) allowed to proceed to full agency proposal Disclaimer Please note that you have been chosen to represent Texas Tech University. Therefore, it is your responsibility as PI to immediately notify us should your team not be able to submit the proposal within 1 month of the submission deadline. This then allows time for another team to represent TTU in submitting a proposal for this opportunity. Should your team not be in a position to fulfill the commitment and not notify VPR&I within the 1 month deadline, please be advised it may affect your chance in future limited submission competitions. Internal Proposal Competition Format Each PI will be notified of specifics for that limited submission funding opportunity; however, the internal proposal format generally includes: Cover page (Title, PI/Co-PI Name(s), Department(s), email address(es), Key Participant(s) 2-3 page proposal summary Estimated budget (including cost sharing details if applicable) C.V. Depending on the proposal, additional information/documents may be required. The PI will be notified of additional requirements if needed. These documents are then reviewed by an internal Peer Review Team with the highest scored proposal(s) approved to go forward to the sponsor. The names of selected PI(s) will be listed on the Limited Submissions website. Office of Research Development Limited Submission Not Listed on Website The Office of Research Development Team & Communications (ORDC) identifies limited submission funding opportunities through internet searches, web services and historical opportunities. However, despite the best efforts of ORDC, not every funding opportunity may be identified. Anyone who wishes to apply to a limited submission opportunity that is not posted on the Limited Submissions webpage should indicate this on their Notice of Intent application and provide a link to the program announcement in the text box provided on the Limited Submission Notice of Intent application form on the Competition Space website: https://ttu.infoready4.com/. NOTE: Failure to follow these guidelines may result in disqualification of an applicant for the relevant grant competition. Once notification is received, ORDC will review the guidelines, determine if the situation warrants an NOI or pre-proposal announcement, and if so, establish appropriate internal due dates and post the announcement to the Limited Submissions webpage for competition. Other Funding Resources There are grants, external awards, and other opportunities available on our Funding Resources page. Agency Program Name Notice of Intent Agency Deadline Specific Limitation Status NIH Maximizing Opportunities for Scientific and Academic Independent Careers (MOSAIC) Institutionally-Focused Research Education Award to Promote Diversity (UE5 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 08/23/23 11/15/23 TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this NIH MOSAIC UE5 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on: Courses for Skills Development Mentoring Activities OPEN NIH Bridges to the Doctorate Research Training Program (T32) 07/19/23 09/27/23 TTU may submit one application. The goal of the Bridges to the Doctorate Research Training Program is to develop a diverse pool of scientists earning a Ph.D. who have the skills to successfully transition into careers in the biomedical research workforce. This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) provides support to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and implement effective, evidence-informed approaches to biomedical training and mentoring that will keep pace with the rapid evolution of the research enterprise. NIGMS expects that the proposed research training programs will incorporate didactic, research, mentoring, and career development elements to prepare trainees for careers that will have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the Nation. OPEN CDC Centers for Agricultural Safety and Health (U54) 07/02/23 09/24/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) invites applications for the Centers for Agricultural Safety and Health (Ag Centers). These centers are expected to conduct high quality research and subsequently disseminate their findings and recommendations in audience appropriate products to contribute to improving the safety and health of agriculture, forestry, and fishing workers. Center structure should take advantage of diverse scientific resources and focus on local, regional, and/or national worker safety and health issues. Emphasis should be placed on the creation and implementation of evidence-based solutions that address important agricultural, forestry, and fishing safety and health problems. Centers should also use innovative approaches to identifying, understanding, and developing strategies for overcoming barriers to the adoption, adaptation, integration, scale-up and sustainability of evidence-based solutions. Collaborations with other academic institutions, nonprofit organizations, and other occupational safety and health focused groups are expected OPEN NIH Limited Competition: NCATS Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) Program Research Education Grants Programs (R25 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 05/24/23 08/16/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. To accomplish the stated overarching goal, this FOA will provide support to recipients of Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) for creative educational activities with a primary focus on research experiences designed to ensure that the participants receive exposure to the scientific and operational principles underlying each step of the translational process so that they can apply these principles to clinical and translational science research areas such as: 1) pre-clinical research, 2) clinical research, 3) clinical implementation, and 4) public health. OPEN NIH Genome Research Experiences to Attract Talented Undergraduates into Genomic Fields to Enhance Diversity (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 04/08/23 07/01/23 TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this NHGRI R25 program is to support educational activities that encourage undergraduates from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical workforce, to pursue further training and careers in the scientific, medical, ethical, social and/or legal areas of genomics research. To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on: Research Experiences Courses for Skills Development OPEN NIH Silvio O. Conte Digestive Diseases Research Core Centers (P30 Clinical Trial Optional) 02/14/23 05/09/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for Silvio O. Conte Digestive Diseases Research Core Centers (DDRCCs). The DDRCCs are part of an integrated program of digestive and liver diseases research support provided by the NIDDK. The purpose of this Centers program is to bring together basic and clinical investigators as a means to enhance communication, collaboration, and effectiveness of ongoing research related to digestive and/or liver diseases within the NIDDK's mission. DDRCCs are based on the core concept, whereby shared resources aimed at fostering productivity, synergy, and new research ideas among the funded investigators are supported in a cost-effective manner. Each proposed DDRCC must be organized around a central theme that reflects the focus of the digestive or liver diseases research of the Center members. The central theme must be within the primary mission of the NIDDK, and not thematic areas for which other NIH Institutes or Centers are considered the primary source of NIH funding. OPEN NIH Undergraduate Research Training Initiative for Student Enhancement (U-RISE) (T34) 02/01/23 04/26/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The goal of the Undergraduate Research Training Initiative for Student Enhancement (U-RISE) program is to develop a diverse pool of undergraduates who complete their baccalaureate degree, and transition into and complete biomedical, research-focused higher degree programs (e.g., Ph.D. or M.D./Ph.D.). This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) provides support to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and implement effective, evidence-informed approaches to biomedical training and mentoring that will keep pace with the rapid evolution of the research enterprise. NIGMS expects that the proposed research training programs will incorporate didactic, research, mentoring, and career development elements to prepare trainees for the completion of research-focused higher degree programs in biomedical fields. OPEN NIH Maximizing Access to Research Careers (T34) 02/01/23 04/26/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The Overarching Objective of the Maximizing Access to Research Careers program is to develop a diverse pool of undergraduates who complete their baccalaureate degree and transition into and complete biomedical, research-focused higher degree programs (e.g., Ph.D. or M.D./Ph.D.). OPEN NIH Research Experience in Genomic Research for Data Scientists (R25) 01/31/23 04/25/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this NHGRI R25 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research. To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on Research Experiences. OPEN NIH Limited Competition: NCATS Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) Program Research Education Grants Programs (R25 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 01/18/23 04/12/23 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. To accomplish the stated overarching goal, this FOA will provide support to recipients of Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) for creative educational activities with a primary focus on research experiences designed to ensure that the participants receive exposure to the scientific and operational principles underlying each step of the translational process so that they can apply these principles to clinical and translational science research areas such as: 1) pre-clinical research, 2) clinical research, 3) clinical implementation, and 4) public health. OPEN NSF NSF Scholarships in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (S-STEM) 11/28/22 02/20/23 TTU may submit two proposals. The main goal of the S-STEM program is to enable low-income students with academic ability, talent or potential to pursue successful careers in promising STEM fields. Ultimately, the S-STEM program seeks to increase the number of low-income students who graduate with a S-STEM eligible degree and contribute to the American innovation economy with their STEM knowledge. Recognizing that financial aid alone cannot increase retention and graduation in STEM, the program provides awards to institutions of higher education (IHEs) not only to fund scholarships, but also to adapt, implement, and study evidence-based curricular and co-curricular1 activities that have been shown to be effective supporting recruitment, retention, transfer (if appropriate), student success, academic/career pathways, and graduation in STEM. OPEN NIH Collaborative Program Grant for Multidisciplinary Teams (RM1 - Clinical Trial Optional) 11/04/22 01/27/23 TTU may submit one application. This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is designed to support highly integrated research teams of three to six PDs/PIs to address ambitious and challenging research questions that are important for the mission of NIGMS and are beyond the scope of one or two investigators. Collaborative program teams are expected to accomplish goals that require considerable synergy and managed team interactions. Project goals should not be achievable with a collection of individual efforts or projects. Teams are encouraged to consider far-reaching objectives that will produce major advances in their fields. Applications that are mainly focused on the creation, expansion, and/or maintenance of community resources, creation of new technologies, or infrastructure development are not appropriate for this FOA. OPEN NIH Limited Competition: NCATS Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) Program Research Education Grants Programs (R25 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 09/21/22 12/14/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. To accomplish the stated overarching goal, this FOA will provide support to recipients of Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) for creative educational activities with a primary focus on research experiences designed to ensure that the participants receive exposure to the scientific and operational principles underlying each step of the translational process so that they can apply these principles to clinical and translational science research areas such as: 1) pre-clinical research, 2) clinical research, 3) clinical implementation, and 4) public health. OPEN NSF LSAMP National Coordination Hub and Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers (LSAMP Hub & LSCRCs) 10/17/22 Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers 10/17/22 LSAMP National Coordination Hub 03/09/23 Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers 01/09/23 Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers 01/09/23 LSAMP National Coordination Hub 06/01/23 Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers An organization may serve as the lead institution on one (1) LSAMP National Coordination Hub proposal or on one (1) Louis Stokes Community Resource Center proposal. With this solicitation, the Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP) program is requesting proposals for an LSAMP National Coordination Hub (LSAMP Hub) and for Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers (LSCRCs). These new activities will complement and amplify the work of the existing program activities as well as support wider dissemination of the results of LSAMP activities. The LSCRCs and the LSAMP Hub will also support the program in further development of partnerships both across the LSAMP community and with other national efforts. This new solicitation will support LSAMP community-focused activities in contrast to the longstanding LSAMP program solicitation (see the LSAMP Program webpage) which provides for student-focused activities. OPEN NIH Maximizing Opportunities for Scientific and Academic Independent Careers (MOSAIC) Institutionally-Focused Research Education Award to Promote Diversity (UE5 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 08/23/22 11/15/22 TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this NIH MOSAIC UE5 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on: Courses for Skills Development Mentoring Activities OPEN NEH Infrastructure and Capacity Building Challenge Grants: Digital Infrastructure 07/19/22 09/27/22 TTU may submit one application. The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Office of Challenge Programs is accepting applications for Infrastructure and Capacity Building Challenge Grants: Digital Infrastructure. This Notice of Funding Opportunity is for digital infrastructure projects in the humanities that support the maintenance, modernization, and sustainability of existing digital scholarly projects and platforms and benefit users in the long term. Projects are financed through a combination of federal matching funds and related fundraising from nonfederal third parties. OPEN NEH Infrastructure and Capacity Building Challenge Grants: Capital Projects 07/19/22 09/27/22 TTU may submit one application. The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Office of Challenge Programs is accepting applications for Infrastructure and Capacity Building Challenge Grants: Capital Projects. This Notice of Funding Opportunity is for capital projects that support the purchase, design, construction, restoration, or renovation of buildings or sites of national, historical, architectural, or cultural significance and facilities that house humanities collections or are used for humanities activities. Projects are financed through a combination of federal matching funds and related fundraising from non-federal third parties. Proposals must enhance the institution's impact on the humanities over the long term and build on careful strategic planning. OPEN NIH Bridges to the Doctorate Research Training Program (T32) 07/19/22 09/27/22 TTU may submit one application. The goal of the Bridges to the Doctorate Research Training Program is to develop a diverse pool of scientists earning a Ph.D. who have the skills to successfully transition into careers in the biomedical research workforce. This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) provides support to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and implement effective, evidence-informed approaches to biomedical training and mentoring that will keep pace with the rapid evolution of the research enterprise. NIGMS expects that the proposed research training programs will incorporate didactic, research, mentoring, and career development elements to prepare trainees for careers that will have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the Nation. OPEN NIH National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) Bridges to the Baccalaureate Research Training Program (T34) 07/18/22 09/26/22 TTU may submit one application. The goal of the Bridges to the Baccalaureate Research Training Program is to provide structured activities to prepare a diverse cohort of research-oriented students to transfer from associate degree-granting institutions to baccalaureate degree-granting institutions and complete a baccalaureate degree in disciplines related to the biomedical sciences. This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) provides support to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and implement effective, evidence-informed approaches to biomedical training and mentoring that will keep pace with the rapid evolution of the research enterprise. NIGMS expects that the proposed research training programs will incorporate didactic, research, mentoring, and career development elements. This program requires strong partnerships between at least two post-secondary educational institutions offering science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) degrees. At least one partner must be an institution that offers the associate degree as the highest STEM degree and the other partner(s) must offer baccalaureate degrees in biomedically relevant STEM fields. Upon completion of the Bridges to the Baccalaureate Research Training program, trainees are expected to be well positioned to pursue research-oriented biomedical higher degree programs or enter careers in the biomedical research workforce. OPEN CDC Centers for Agricultural Safety and Health (U54) 07/02/22 09/24/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) invites applications for the Centers for Agricultural Safety and Health (Ag Centers). These centers are expected to conduct high quality research and subsequently disseminate their findings and recommendations in audience appropriate products to contribute to improving the safety and health of agriculture, forestry, and fishing workers. Center structure should take advantage of diverse scientific resources and focus on local, regional, and/or national worker safety and health issues. Emphasis should be placed on the creation and implementation of evidence-based solutions that address important agricultural, forestry, and fishing safety and health problems. Centers should also use innovative approaches to identifying, understanding, and developing strategies for overcoming barriers to the adoption, adaptation, integration, scale-up and sustainability of evidence-based solutions. Collaborations with other academic institutions, nonprofit organizations, and other occupational safety and health focused groups are expected OPEN NIH NIH Neuroscience Development for Advancing the Careers of a Diverse Research Workforce (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 07/02/22 08/27/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one application. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this R25 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research. To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on: Research Experiences Mentoring Activities Curriculum or Methods Development OPEN NEH 2023 NEH Summer Stipends 06/29/22 09/21/22 TTU may submit two nominations. The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Division of Research Programs is accepting applications for the Summer Stipends program. The purpose of this program is to stimulate new research and publication in the humanities. Summer Stipends support continuous, full-time work on a humanities project for a period of two consecutive months. NEH funds may support recipients' compensation, travel, and other costs related to the proposed scholarly research. Summer Stipends support continuous full-time work on research-based projects in the humanities for a period of two consecutive months. OPEN NSF National Science Foundation Research Traineeship (NRT) Program 06/28/22 09/06/22 TTU may submit two proposals. The NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) program seeks proposals that explore ways for graduate students in research-based master's and doctoral degree programs to develop the skills, knowledge, and competencies needed to pursue a range of STEM careers. The program is dedicated to effective training of STEM graduate students in high priority interdisciplinary or convergent research areas, through a comprehensive traineeship model that is innovative, evidence-based, and aligned with changing workforce and research needs. Proposals are requested that address any interdisciplinary or convergent research theme of national priority. OPEN NIH NIH Director's Early Independence Awards (DP5 Clinical Trial Optional) 06/24/22 09/02/22 TTU may submit two applications. The NIH Director's Early Independence Award supports exceptional junior investigators who wish to pursue independent research soon after completion of their terminal doctoral degree or post-graduate clinical training, thereby forgoing the traditional post-doctoral training period and accelerating their entry into an independent research career. For the program to support the best possible researchers and research, applications are sought which reflect the full diversity of the research workforce. Individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented groups and from the full spectrum of eligible institutions in all geographic locations, are strongly encouraged to apply to this Funding Opportunity Announcement. In addition, applications in all topics relevant to the broad mission of NIH are welcome, including, but not limited to, topics in the behavioral, social, biomedical, applied, and formal sciences and topics that may involve basic, translational, or clinical research. OPEN DOE Reaching a New Energy Sciences Workforce (RENEW) - Earth and Environmental Systems 06/15/22 08/24/22 TTU may submit two proposals. The DOE SC program in BER hereby announces its interest in receiving applications for RENEW grants that will target building capacity in climate and environmental science-relevant programs, particularly at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and minority-serving institutions (MSIs) . Funding may be requested to support experiential training, mentoring, and institutional capacity building activities in partnership with DOE national laboratory Scientific Focus Areas (SFAs) supported within BER's Earth and Environmental Systems Sciences Division (EESSD). BER has a goal to broaden and diversify institutional representation in the EESSD portfolio. BER recognizes there are many academic scientists at institutions not currently supported by BER who have limited familiarity with EESSD programs and research support; BER further recognizes that such barriers to engagement in research and student training can be surmounted by fostering partnerships and collaborations with BER-supported SFA research at the DOE national laboratories. To help provide technical assistance to build capacity and achieve the goal of broadening institutional participation, this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) will provide training and research funding for institutions to: 1) develop new partnerships with the BER-supported EESSD SFAs at the DOE national laboratories, to enable sustained undergraduate and graduate student participation in EESSD-relevant research; 2) facilitate undergraduate and graduate student participation in EESSD research programmatic and user facility outreach and training activities; and 3) foster the development of climate and environmental science training capacity and research at under-represented institutions. OPEN NEH National Endowment for the Humanities Public Humanities Projects 06/15/22 08/10/22 TTU may submit one application per project. The Public Humanities Projects program supports projects that bring the ideas of the humanities to life for general audiences through public programming. Projects must engage humanities scholarship to analyze significant themes in disciplines such as history, literature, ethics, and art history. Awards support projects that are intended to reach broad and diverse public audiences in non-classroom settings in the United States. Projects should engage with ideas that are accessible to the general public and employ appealing interpretive formats. OPEN NEA Our Town 06/09/22 08/04/22 TTU may submit two applications as a lead organization. NEA encourages applications for projects that integrate arts, culture and design into strategies for strengthening communities. Arts, culture, and design may uniquely: Bring new attention to or elevate key community assets and issues, voices of residents, local history, or cultural infrastructure. Inject new or additional energy, resources, activity, people, or enthusiasm into a place, community issue, or local economy. Envision new possibilities for a community or place—a new future, a way of overcoming a challenge, or approaching problem-solving. Connect communities, people, places, and economic opportunity via physical spaces or new relationships. OPEN NSF EPSCoR Research Infrastructure Improvement Program Track-1 (RII Track-1) 06/07/22 07/19/22 Letter of Intent 08/22/22 Full Proposal TTU may submit one proposal. The Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) is designed to fulfill the mandate of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to promote scientific progress nationwide. Jurisdictions are eligible to participate in the NSF EPSCoR Research Infrastructure Improvement (RII) Program based on their level of total NSF support over their most recent five years (see EPSCoR eligibility). Through this program, NSF facilitates the establishment of partnerships among academic institutions and organizations in governmental, non-profit, and commercial or industrial sectors that are designed to effect sustainable improvements in a jurisdiction's research infrastructure, Research and Development (R&D) capacity, and hence, its R&D competitiveness. OPEN DOJ Evidence-based Workforce Development Partnership Training – Curriculum Development/Conversion 06/06/22 07/18/22 TTU may submit one application. In order to assist justice-involved adults with maintaining long-term attachments to the workforce, practitioners must be able to assess those at high risk for job loss, identify specific criminogenic risks, and develop programming in response to the identified risk/need areas. In addition, qualified practitioners increase their effectiveness when utilizing programming and service based on developmental and structural career theories. Criminal justice practitioners and their stakeholders must maintain a communication style supporting the exploration of the values, thoughts and beliefs impacting an individual's quality of life. The Evidence-based Workforce Development Training provides practitioners with the knowledge and skills required to assist justice-involved adults as they explore the values, thoughts and beliefs resulting in job loss and high recidivism rates. OPEN DOD Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 DoD Research and Education Program for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions (HBCU/MI) 06/03/22 08/12/22 TTU may submit no more than three proposals. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) aims to (a) enhance research programs and capabilities in scientific and engineering disciplines critical to the national security functions of DoD; (b) enhance the capacity of HBCU/MI to participate in DoD research programs and activities; and (c) increase the number of graduates, including underrepresented minorities, in fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) important to the defense mission. OPEN Stanley Smith Horticultural Trust Stanley Smith Horticultural Trust Grant 06/03/22 07/15/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The Stanley Smith Horticultural Trust supports education and research in ornamental horticulture through grants to botanical gardens, arboreta, universities, and other charitable organizations strongly-aligned with its funding interests. OPEN DOE Reaching a New Energy Sciences Workforce for High Energy Physics (RENEW-HEP) 06/01/22 07/27/22 TTU may submit three proposals. The DOE SC High Energy Physics (HEP) program hereby announces its interest in receiving applications for the REaching a New Energy sciences Workforce for High Energy Physics (RENEW-HEP) initiative. This program is intended to support training and research experiences in support of particle physics for members of underserved communities, with the dual goals of : (1) increasing the likelihood that participants from underrepresented populations, such as those present at minority serving institutions (MSIs) , will pursue a career in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Math (STEM) related field; and (2) supporting investigators and building research infrastructure at institutions that have not traditionally been part of the particle physics portfolio. OPEN NIH NICHD Neonatal Research Network (NRN): Clinical Centers (UG1 Clinical Trial Optional) 05/31/22 07/12/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one application. The purpose of the Neonatal Research Network (NRN) is to improve healthcare and outcomes for newborns. This includes finding ways to improve the chances for survival without neurodevelopmental impairment for infants born premature, low-birth weight, or with other serious conditions. NICHD expects the NRN to be its primary and first-line infrastructure involved in implementing multi-site neonatal clinical trials. OPEN NIH NICHD Neonatal Research Network (NRN): Data Coordinating Center (U24 Clinical Trial Optional) 05/31/22 07/12/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one application. The purpose of the Neonatal Research Network (NRN) is to improve healthcare and outcomes for newborns. This includes finding ways to improve the chances for survival without neurodevelopmental impairment for infants born premature, low-birth weight, or with other serious conditions. NICHD expects the NRN to be its primary and first-line infrastructure involved in implementing multi-site neonatal clinical trials. OPEN NIH NICHD Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units (MFMU) Network: Data Coordinating Center (U24 Clinical Trial Optional) 05/31/22 07/12/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one application. The purpose of the Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units (MFMU) Network is to improve obstetric care, pregnancy health, and outcomes for pregnant and lactating people and their babies. This includes finding ways to: reduce maternal mortality, complications, and morbidities related to pregnancy, labor, and post-partum recovery; reduce prematurity, low-birth weight, infant mortality, and morbidities; and expand the evidence base about the safety and efficacy of therapeutic products used during pregnancy and lactation. NICHD expects the MFMU Network to be its primary and first-line infrastructure involved in implementing multi-site obstetric clinical trials. OPEN NIH NICHD Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units (MFMU) Network: Clinical Centers (UG1 Clinical Trial Optional) 05/31/22 07/12/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one application. The Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) invites institutions to submit applications to participate in the Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units (MFMU) Network. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for MFMU Network Clinical Centers; a separate FOA invites applications for a MFMU Network Data Coordinating Center. OPEN NEA National Endowment for the Arts: Grants for Arts Projects 05/26/22 07/07/22 TTU may submit one application to certain disciplines. Grants for Arts Projects is the National Endowment for the Arts' principal grants program. for organizations base in the United States. Through project-based funding, the program supports public engagement with, and access to, various forms of art across the nation, the creation of art, learning in the arts at all stages of life, and the integration of the arts into the fabric of community life. CLOSED Mahyar Hadighi (PI) NIH Limited Competition: NCATS Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) Program Research Education Grants Programs (R25 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 05/25/22 08/17/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one proposal. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. To accomplish the stated overarching goal, this FOA will provide support to recipients of Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) for creative educational activities with a primary focus on research experiences designed to ensure that the participants receive exposure to the scientific and operational principles underlying each step of the translational process so that they can apply these principles to clinical and translational science research areas such as: 1) pre-clinical research, 2) clinical research, 3) clinical implementation, and 4) public health. CLOSED SVRI Sexual Violence Research Initiative (SVRI) Research Grant 05/24/22 07/19/22 TTU may submit two proposals. The Sexual Violence Research Initiative (SVRI) is inviting applications for innovative research and interventions that will contribute to the prevention and response of violence against women (VAW) and violence against children (VAC) and other forms of violence driven by gender inequality in low and middle-income countries. CLOSED ADA Pathway to Stop Diabetes - Accelerator Award (ACE) 05/23/22 08/01/22 TTU may submit one nomination. Award Term: Up to 5 years Applicant: Early Career Faculty Maximum Funding: $325,000/year Support: Project support & PI salary Indirect Support: Up to 30% of directs Project % Effort Required: 25-50% effort Citizenship: Authorized to work in U.S. or U.S. possessions CLOSED ADA Pathway to Stop Diabetes - Initiator Award (INI) 05/23/22 08/01/22 TTU may submit one nomination. Award Term: Up to 7 years Applicant: Postdoctoral Fellow Maximum Funding: Up to $100,000/year in Phase 1, Up to $325,000/year in Phase 2 Support: Project support & PI salary Indirect Support: Up to 10% of directs in Phase 1, Up to 30% of directs in Phase 2 Project % Effort Required: 75-100% effort in Phase 1, 50-75% effort in Phase 2 Citizenship: Authorized to work in U.S. or U.S. possessions CLOSED NSF Resilient & Intelligent NextG Systems - Virtual Organization (RINGS-VO) 05/23/22 08/01/22 Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization: 1 The National Science Foundation (NSF) Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) and the Directorate for Engineering (ENG) solicit the submission of proposals to set up a Virtual Organization (VO) for the Resilient & Intelligent NextG Systems (RINGS) program. CLOSED Edward Mallinckrodt, Jr. Foundation Mallinckrodt Grants 05/23/22 08/01/22 TTU may submit one application. The funds are designed to provide to tenure track faculty members in their first to fourth year, at American Institutions, who hold M.D. and/or Ph.D. degrees, start-up support to move the project forward to the point where R01 or other independent funding can be obtained. Applicants with current R01 funding should not apply. CLOSED NSF Physics Frontiers Centers (PFC) 05/23/22 08/01/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit two proposals. The Physics Frontiers Centers (PFC) program supports university-based centers and institutes where the collective efforts of a larger group of individuals can enable transformational advances in the most promising research areas. The program is designed to foster major breakthroughs at the intellectual frontiers of physics by providing needed resources such as combinations of talents, skills, disciplines, and/or specialized infrastructure, not usually available to individual investigators or small groups, in an environment in which the collective efforts of the larger group can be shown to be seminal to promoting significant progress in the science and the education of students. CLOSED NSF Regional Innovation Engines 05/19/22 06/20/22 Concept Outlines TTU may submit one application as a lead instititution. The NSF Engines program represents a bold new initiative to significantly expand our Nation's innovation capacity in key areas of national interest by establishing Engines designed to seed, scale, and sustain new and thriving innovation ecosystems throughout every region of the U.S. Each Engine is expected to produce measurable societal impacts and to produce a range of tangible outcomes that span economic, technological, educational, and workforce dimensions through intentional partnerships and engagement of diverse stakeholders across regional, and where applicable, national levels. Each Engine must demonstrate a strong commitment to diversity along several dimensions (e.g., perspectives, gender, types of organizations), equity, inclusion, and accessibility in intent, actions, and outcomes. In support of these objectives, the NSF Engines program seeks to expand the breadth of institution types that take on leadership roles in center-scale activities, such as Minority-Serving Institutions, institutions in EPSCoR jurisdictions, industry, and other organizations not traditionally supported by NSF. CLOSED Danny Reible (PI) NIH Cystic Fibrosis Research and Translation Centers (P30 Clinical Trial Optional) 05/17/22 06/28/22 Letter of Intent TTU may submit one application. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Research and Translation Core Centers. CF Research and Translation Core Centers are designed to support both basic and clinical research on Cystic Fibrosis. CF Research and Translation Core Centers support three primary research-related activities: Research Core services; a Pilot and Feasibility program; and an Administrative Core with an enrichment program. Core Centers provide shared resources to support research to develop and test new therapies for CF and to foster collaborations among institutions with a strong existing research base in CF. The NIDDK currently supports seven CF Research and Translation Centers located at institutions with documented programs of research excellence in basic and clinical CF Research. CLOSED NSF IUSE / Professional Formation of Engineers: Revolutionizing Engineering Departments (IUSE/PFE: RED) 05/16/22 07/18/22 An eligible institution may submit a maximum of two proposals (e.g. 2 RED Innovation Track or 1 RED A&I Track and 1 RED Two-year Track). Revolutionizing Engineering Departments is designed to build upon previous efforts in engineering education research. CLOSED HRSA State Maternal Health Innovation & Data Capacity Program 05/13/22 06/13/22 TTU may submit one application. The purpose of this program is to support state capacity to improve maternal health and address maternal health disparities through quality services, a skilled workforce, enhanced data quality and capacity, and innovative programming that aims to reduce maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity (SMM). The program addresses the high rates of these adverse maternal health outcomes by engaging public health professionals, providers, payers, and consumers to implement evidence-based interventions and policy changes that address critical gaps in and needs for services within the categories of direct clinical care, workforce training, maternal health data enhancements, and community engagement. CLOSED BCA Breast Cancer Alliance Young Investigator Grants 05/13/22 07/22/22 TTU may submit up to two applications Applicants for the 2023 award must (i) not have held a tenure track faculty or tenure track research position for more than four years following completion of their training, as of March 1, 2023; (ii) not have been a principal investigator on an NIH R01 or equivalent national/international non-mentored award; and (iii) dedicate at least 50% of their work effort to research. This grant is intended to help advance the careers of young researchers who do not yet have their own major grant support but who design and conduct their own independent research projects. CLOSED DOS Counterterrorism Financing Communications Initiative 05/13/22 06/01/22 TTU may submit one proposal. The Bureau of Counterterrorism (CT) of the U.S. Department of State announces a Request for Statements of Interest and Capacity (RSOIC) from organizations interested in implementing projects under CT's Counterterrorism Financing Communications Initiative. Specifically, CT seeks concepts regarding building law enforcement capacity to promote public awareness on countering the finance of terrorism (CFT), including but not limited to charitable giving, counterfeit or illicit goods, interactions with designated non-financial businesses and professions, and public corruption as it relates to terrorist financing. CLOSED NIH Genome Research Experiences to Attract Talented Undergraduates into Genomic Fields to Enhance Diversity (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 05/13/22 06/01/22 Letter of Intent 07/01/22 Application Due The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this NHGRI R25 program is to support educational activities that encourage undergraduates from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical workforce, to pursue further training and careers in the scientific, medical, ethical, social and/or legal areas of genomics research CLOSED DOS Community Radio technicians skill reinforcement and capacity building U.S. Mission to Niger 05/13/22 07/04/22 The U.S. Embassy Niamey Public Diplomacy Section of the U.S. Department of State is pleased to announce an open competition for organizations to submit applications to carry out training for community radio technicians in Niger. This program aimed at reinforcing capacity and skills of community radio in the era of new technology in broadcasting rooms and studios. CLOSED DOE National Lab Jobs ACCESS Program 05/12/22 06/23/22 Letter of Intent 07/07/22 Full Proposal The DOE/NNSA announce interest in receiving applications for grants for the Department of Energy National Lab Jobs ACCESS Program. ACCESS is an acronym for – Apprenticeships for Complete and Committed Employment for Specialized Skills. This is a new pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship program created under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020. CLOSED The Conservation, Food & Health Foundation The Conservation, Food & Health Foundation Grant 05/06/22 07/01/22 TTU may submit one application. The Conservation, Food and Health Foundation seeks to protect natural resources, improve the production and distribution of food, and promote public health in Asia, Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. The foundation helps build the capacity of organizations and coalitions with grants that support research or improve the learning and generation of local solutions to complex problems. CLOSED NIH NIH Faculty Institutional Recruitment for Sustainable Transformation (FIRST) Program: FIRST Cohort (U54 Clinical Trial Optional) 05/06/22 06/13/22 Letter of Intent 07/12/22 Full Application The purpose of the FIRST Cohort is to transform culture at NIH-funded extramural institutions by building a self-reinforcing community of scientists committed to diversity and inclusive excellence (defined below). Implementing and sustaining cultures of inclusive excellence within the program has the potential to be transformational for biomedical research at the recipient institutions and beyond. CLOSED Naima Moustaid-Moussa (PI) NIH Immune Drivers of Autoimmune Disease (IDAD) (U01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 05/06/22 06/01/22 Letter of Intent 07/01/22 Full Application This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications to participate in the Immune Drivers of Autoimmune Disease (IDAD) cooperative research program, which will focus on defining the immunologic states and dynamics that drive autoimmune disease. The main objective of this program is to enhance our understanding of the immunologic processes, events, and changes that underlie the clinical manifestations of autoimmune diseases, including disease flare, remission, and progression of established disease, as well as the progression from a state of elevated risk to clinical diagnosis of autoimmune disease. CLOSED NSF CyberCorps(R) Scholarship for Service (SFS) 05/06/22 07/15/22 TTU may submit one application. The goals of the CyberCorps(R): Scholarship for Service (SFS) program are aligned with the U.S. strategy to develop a superior cybersecurity workforce. These goals are to increase the quantity of new entrants to the government cyber workforce, to increase the national capacity for the education of cybersecurity professionals, to increase national research and development capabilities in critical information infrastructure protection, and to strengthen partnerships between institutions of higher education and relevant employment sectors. CLOSED USAID Just and Secure Energy Transition (J-SET) 05/06/22 05/18/22 The purpose of J-SET is to support utilities, regulatory agencies, and energy sector stakeholders in the Europe and Eurasia region in progressing through the clean energy transition while also maintaining reliable, affordable and secure energy supplies. CLOSED DOS Adapting to the New Geostrategic Threats 05/06/22 07/01/22 The Office of the Public Affairs Advisor (PAA) at the U.S. Mission to NATO (USNATO) announces an open competition for not-for-profit, non-government organizations and think-tanks that focus on international affairs, defense and security issues, and U.S. and European relations to submit project proposals. We encourage project proposals to include public, on-the-record discussions and creative public engagements in Europe and Canada on the major theme of: “A New Cold War? The changing face of European security architecture: How should NATO adapt to the new geostrategic threats?” CLOSED USAID BHA Global APS for Transforming the International Humanitarian Data Ecosystem 05/06/22 05/30/22 The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance (BHA) is seeking applications for funding from qualified entities to implement programming and activities for Transforming the International Humanitarian Data Ecosystem. CLOSED DOE EXPRESS: 2022 Exploratory Research for Extreme-Scale Science 05/05/22 05/12/22 Pre-application TTU may submit up to 6 applications. Extreme-scale science recognizes that disruptive technology changes are occurring across science applications, algorithms, computer architectures and ecosystems. Recent reports point to emerging trends and advances in high-end computing, massive datasets, scientific machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI) on increasingly heterogeneous architectures, including neuromorphic and quantum systems. Significant innovation will be required in the development of effective paradigms and approaches for realizing the full potential of scientific computing from emerging technologies. Proposed research should not focus strictly on a specific science use case, but rather on creating the body of knowledge and understanding that will inform future advances in extreme-scale science. Consequently, the funding from this FOA is not intended to incrementally extend current research in the area of the proposed project. It is expected that the proposed projects will significantly benefit from the exploration of innovative ideas or from the development of unconventional approaches. CLOSED Lu Wei (PI) USDA Equipment Grant Program (EGP) 05/04/22 06/15/22 Two proposals total, per eligible institution. The Equipment Grant Program (EGP) serves to increase access to shared-use special purpose equipment/instruments for fundamental and applied research for use in the food and agricultural sciences programs at institutions of higher education, including State Cooperative Extension Systems. The program seeks to strengthen the quality and expand the scope of fundamental and applied research at eligible institutions, by providing them with opportunities to acquire one major piece of equipment/instruments that support their research, training, and extension goals and may be too costly and/or not appropriate for support through other NIFA grant programs. CLOSED Alexandra Calle (PI) DOEd Office of Postsecondary Education (OPE): Higher Education Programs (HEP): Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions (DHSI) Program, Assistance Listing Number (ALN) 84.031SDepartment of Education 05/02/22 06/06/22 The DHSI Program provides grants to assist Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) with expanding educational opportunities for, and improving the academic attainment of, Hispanic students. DHSI Program grants enable HSIs to expand and enhance the academic offerings, program quality, faculty quality, and institutional stability of colleges and universities that are educating the majority of Hispanic college students and help large numbers of Hispanic students and other lowincome individuals complete postsecondary degrees. CLOSED NSF Research Visioning for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE): Future Research Directions for the CISE Community (CISE-RV) 04/26/22 LOI: 05/10/22 Full Proposal: 10/05/22 An organization may submit only one CISE-RV proposal in which it is the lead institution. The National Science Foundation's Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) seeks to fund a community-driven organization that will identify ambitious new fundamental and translational research directions that align with national and societal priorities and thereby catalyze the computing research community's pursuit of innovative, high-impact research. Specifically, CISE calls on the information, communication, computing and cyberinfrastructure research community to establish a CISE Research Visioning activity (CISE-RV) to facilitate the articulation of compelling long-term research visions and establish multi-directional communication pathways for stakeholders with interest in information, communication, computing and cyberinfrastructure research, including those in academia, industry, government, professional societies, virtual organizations, international entities, and the general public. CLOSED LEGO Foundation Build a World of Play 04/07/22 04/07/22 Registration Organizations from around the world are invited to apply with ideas that transform early childhood experiences while addressing global social issues to ensure that all young children grow up in safe, nurturing, and stimulating environments – where they have everything they need to thrive. The Challenge is seeking ideas that connect with and can be integrated across systems and sectors, that are contextually relevant and that resonate within the communities who will ultimately own and sustain them. CLOSED Eric Rasmussen & Muntazar Monsur (PI) NIH Limited Competition: Basic Instrumentation Grant (BIG) Program (S10 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 04/06/22 6/01/22 Only one BIG application per institution as identified by the UEI number, is allowed per due date. Any institution that received a total of $250,001 or more of S10 grant funding in any of the preceding 3 Federal FYs is not eligible to apply to this FOA. Use the following to determine applicable funding periods: for application due date of June 1, 2022, consider S10 funding in FYs 2019-2021 CLOSED Seth Chapman (PI) NSF Materials Research Science and Engineering Centers (MRSEC) 03/08/22 Pre-Proposal: 06/20/22 Invited Full Applications Deadline: 11/22/22 Only one MRSEC preliminary proposal may be submitted by any one organization as the lead institution in this competition. The number of MRSEC awards will depend on the quality of the proposals and available funds. An estimate of $25,000,000 will be available for the FY 2023 competition for funding up to 8 MRSEC awards. The Materials Research Science and Engineering Centers (MRSECs) program provides sustained support of materials research and education of the highest quality while addressing fundamental problems in science and engineering. Each MRSEC addresses research of a scope and complexity requiring the scale, synergy, and multidisciplinarity provided by a campus-based research center. The MRSECs support materials research infrastructure in the United States, promote active collaboration between universities and other sectors, including industry and international organizations, and contribute to the development of a national network of university-based centers in materials research, education, and facilities. CLOSED NSF Partnerships for Innovation - Research Partnerships (PFI-RP Track) 3/7/22 7/13/22 An organization may not submit more than one (1) new or resubmitted PFI-RP proposal to a deadline of this solicitation. The Research Partnerships (PFI-RP) track seeks to achieve the same goals as the PFI-TT track by supporting instead complex, multi-faceted technology development projects that are typically beyond the scope of a single researcher or institution and require a multi-organizational, interdisciplinary, synergistic collaboration. A PFI-RP project requires the creation of partnerships between academic researchers and third-party organizations such as industry, non-academic research organizations, federal laboratories, public or non-profit technology transfer organizations or other universities. Such partnerships are needed to conduct applied research on a stand-alone larger project toward commercialization and societal impact. In the absence of such synergistic partnership, the project's likelihood for success would be minimal. CLOSED USDA Women and Minorities in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Fields Program (WAMS) 2/2/22 3/31/22 Each eligible, individual institution, independent branch campus, and branch institution of a State system may submit one application as an individual institution each federal fiscal year. For the Women and Minorities in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Fields (WAMS) program, NIFA will support projects with a target audience of K-14 students (kindergarten through twelfth grade plus two years of post-secondary schooling (e.g., vocational technical institutions or community or junior colleges)). Four-year undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral focused projects will not be awarded under this grant announcement. Projects with a primary target of four-year undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral studies should consider other NIFA's workforce development focused programs. CLOSED Heidi Villalba (PI) FFAR New Innovator in Food & Agriculture Research Award 1/19/22 Nomination Deadline: 2/23/22 Invited Full Applications Deadline: 5/4/22 U.S. institutions of higher education, U.S. nonprofit institutions other than institutions of higher education, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture are invited to nominate one applicant for the 2022 New Innovator in Food and Agriculture Research Award. The New Innovator Award seeks to promote career advancement of highly creative and promising new scientists who intend to make a long-term career commitment to research in food and agriculture and bring innovative, ground-breaking research initiatives and thinking to bear on problems facing food and agriculture. Within the scope of the New Innovator Program, investigators will have the freedom to explore new avenues of inquiry that arise during their research. Therefore, FFAR is interested in the program of research to be explored and its impact as opposed to a list of very specific aims. FFAR anticipates funding no more than ten (10) awards in the FFAR Challenge Areas: • Soil Health • Sustainable Water Management • Next Generation Crops • Advanced Animal Systems • Urban Food Systems • Health-Agriculture Nexus CLOSED DOE Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRCs) 1/18/22 Pre-Application Deadline: 2/15/22 Invited Full Application Deadline: 5/3/22 Applicant institutions are limited to no more than three pre-applications or applications. DOE will consider the latest received submissions that have institutional support to be the institution's intended submissions. The DOE SC program in Basic Energy Sciences (BES) announces a re-competition of the Energy Frontier Research Center (EFRC) program and encourages both new and renewal applications. Applications from multi-disciplinary teams will be required to propose both discovery science and use-inspired basic research that addresses priority research directions and opportunities identified by a series of BES workshop and roundtable reports. DOE encourages applications that propose fundamental chemical sciences, materials sciences, geosciences, and biosciences research that will enable future clean energy technologies and advanced manufacturing. Coordination across programs is a high priority for DOE. CLOSED NIH NIH Science Education Partnership Award (SEPA) (R25 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 11/18/21 Agency LOI Deadline 30 days prior to application deadline Agency Deadline 7/13/22 Only one application per institution is allowed on each due date. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the NIH Institutes and Centers. The over-arching goals of the NIH R25 program are to: 1. Complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation's biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs 2. Encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research 3. Help recruit individuals with specific specialty or disciplinary backgrounds to research careers in biomedical, behavioral and clinical sciences 4. Foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its implications. The overarching goal of this R25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation's biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs. Direct costs are limited to $250,000 annually. The SEPA project period is 5 years. CLOSED W.M. Keck Foundation Keck Foundation Research Program 05/01/22 or 11/01/22 The Foundation strives to fund endeavors that are distinctive and novel in their approach. It encourages projects that are high-risk with the potential for transformative impact. "High-risk" comprises a number of factors, including questions that push the edge of the field, present unconventional approaches to intractable problems, or challenge the prevailing paradigm. To make grant determinations, the Foundation relies upon a wide range of input, including assessments by its professional staff, site visits (where appropriate), peer reviews, the latest available scientific information, and presentations by experts in scientific, medical and health and human service fields. CLOSED Robert Duncan (PI) NIH Enhancing Science, Technology, EnginEering, and Math Educational Diversity (ESTEEMED) Research Education Experiences (R25) 11/11/21 Agency LOI Deadline 5/24/22 Agency Deadline 6/24/22 Only one application per institution is allowed. The maximum project period is 4 years. The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The overarching goal of this R25 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on: Courses for Skills Development Research Experiences CLOSED NSF National Artificial Intelligence (AI) Research Institutes Accelerating Research, Transforming Society, and Growing the American Workforce 10/28/21 Pre-Propsoal Deadline 1/14/22 Full Proposal (Invited) 5/13/22 An organization may submit no more than two preliminary proposals to this solicitation as lead institution. Estimated Number of Awards: 7 NSF plans to make approximately one Institute award in each of themes 1-5, and one award to each of the two tracks listed in theme 6 as described below. Anticipated Funding Amount: $140,000,000 Institute awards will be made for between $16,000,000 and $20,000,000 for four to five years ($4,000,000 per year on average). Proposals outside this range may be returned without review. Estimated program budget, number of awards and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds. CLOSED Ali Nejat (PI) NSF Ethical and Responsible Research (ER2) 11/22/21 2/22/22 Only one proposal may be submitted by an eligible organization. ER2 research projects will use basic research to produce knowledge about what constitutes or promotes responsible or irresponsible conduct of research, and how to best instill this knowledge into researchers and educators at all career stages. In some cases, projects will include the development of interventions to ensure ethical and responsible research conduct. The maximum amount for 5-year awards is $600,000 (including indirect costs) and the maximum amount for 3-year awards is $400,000 (including indirect costs). The average award is $275,000 CLOSED NSF Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) 11/15/21 1/19/22 MRI provides support to acquire critical research instrumentation without which advances in fundamental science and engineering research may not otherwise occur. MRI also provides support to develop next-generation research instruments that open new opportunities to advance the frontiers in science and engineering research. Additionally, an MRI award is expected to enhance research training of students who will become the next generation of instrument users, designers and builders. An MRI proposal may request up to $4 million for either acquisition or development of a research instrument. Beginning with the FY 2018 competition, each performing organization may submit in revised “Tracks” as defined below, with no more than two submissions in Track 1 and no more than one submission in Track 2. Track 1: Track 1 MRI proposals are those that request funds from NSF greater than or equal to $100,0001 and less than $1,000,000. Track 2: Track 2 MRI proposals are those that request funds from NSF greater than or equal to $1,000,000 up to and including $4,000,000. Estimated Number of Awards: 150 Up to 150 awards are anticipated depending on the available budget and the number and quality of submissions. Anticipated Funding Amount: $75,000,000 Proposals submitted in response to this program solicitation will be competing for up to $75 million, pending availability of funds and numbers/quality of proposals, with approximately 1/3 of the available MRI funding expected to support Track 2 awards. NSF strongly encourages MRI proposals that seek to develop next-generation research instruments that open new frontiers of research; therefore up to 1/3 of the MRI awards are expected to support instrument development in either track; therefore within their submission limit organizations are encouraged to submit proposals for innovative development projects. Beginning with this competition, each performing organization is now limited to a maximum of three proposals in revised “Tracks” as defined below, with no more than two submissions in Track 1 and no more than one submission in Track 2. CLOSED Myoung-Hwan Kim (PI, Track 1) ORAU Ralph E. Powe Faculty Enhancement Awards Program 10/13/2021 1/07/2022 Our commitment to enriching the research skills and professional growth of young faculty members at ORAU member institutions is embodied in the Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Awards Program. These competitive research awards provide seed money for junior faculty members that often result in additional funding from other sources. The award amount provided by ORAU is $5,000. The applicant's institution is required to match the award with at least an additional $5,000. This is a one-year grant (June 1 to May 31). Eligibility for the Powe Awards is open to full-time assistant professors at ORAU member institutions within two years of their tenure track appointment at the time of application. If there is a question about eligibility, your ORAU Councilor makes the final determination. Only two nominations are allowed per institution. Research projects must fall within one of these five disciplines: Engineering and Applied Science Health Disparities/Equity Life Sciences Mathematics/Computer Sciences Physical Sciences Policy, Management, or Education *New Research Category: As a result of ORAU's partnership with The MITRE Corporation, a new research discipline has been added to the list for you to select from: Health Disparities/Equity. MITRE is interested in promoting multi-disciplinary research that focuses on understanding and addressing health disparities and promoting health equity. The following examples are representative of potential research topics: How can emerging medical technology innovations in areas like digital health, artificial intelligence, and big data analytics drive to create more equitable health outcomes? What potential pitfalls exist in these technologies to exacerbate inequities? How does climate change affect health outcomes of different populations and what measures can be taken to address inequitable outcomes found in underserved populations? CLOSED Donald Docimo (PI) & Wendy Chen (PI) NSF Science and Technology Centers: Integrative Partnerships (STC) Discovery and Innovation to Address Vexing Scientific and Societal Challenges 10/29/21 Pre-Proposal Deadline 2/1/22 Proposal Deadline 8/29/22 A single organization may submit a maximum of three preliminary proposals as the lead institution. Full proposals are to be submitted only when invited by NSF. There is no limit on the number of proposals in which an organization participates as a partner institution. The STC program will not support more than one Center from any one lead institution in this competition. Estimated Number of Awards: up to 5 Centers. Each award will be made as a cooperative agreement to the lead institution, with an initial commitment for five years of support and a possibility of continuation for five additional years. Number of awards is approximate and subject to availability of funds in FY2023. Anticipated Funding Amount: $30,000,000 Up to $30,000,000 annually, subject to the appropriation of funds. CLOSED Stephen Ekwaro-Osire (PI), Luis Herrera-Estrella (PI) *One spot left for this RFP. Brain Research Foundation Brain Research Foundation 2022 Seed Grant Program 11/5/21 1/4/22 Brain Research Foundation (BRF) is inviting eligible US academic institutions to nominate one (1) faculty member to submit a Letter of Intent (LOI) for the BRF Seed Grant Program. . To be eligible, the PI must be a full-time Assistant or Associate Professor working in the field of neuroscience. Each total award is limited to $80,000 (direct costs) for a two-year grant period. The first grant payment of $40,000 will be made upon completion of the Seed Grant Acceptance Form (June 2022). The final payment of $40,000 will be made contingent upon receipt of a Preliminary Progress and Financial Report (June 2023). The support focus is for new research projects of the highest scientific merit. CLOSED Jon Thompson (PI) Texas Council for Developmental Disabilities Increasing Access to Information about COVID-19 Vaccines for Individuals with Disabilities 9/21/21 10/22/21/ CLOSED Nicole Noble (PI) NIH Modern Equipment for Shared-use Biomedical Research Facilities: Advancing Research-Related Operations 10/15/21 12/01/21 The solicitation provides support through the R24 mechanism for the purchase and installment of advanced equipment to “enhance and modernize research-supporting operations of biomedical research facilities.” All equipment funded by this opportunity must be placed in a core facility, an animal research facility, or a shared-use space that would benefit the overall research community at the institution. This opportunity does not support funding for research instruments that acquire experimental data or computer and data storage systems supporting data collection, storage, or analysis. Funding for maintaining current operations or fixing broken equipment is also not permitted. Only one application per institution is allowed. Applications must emphasize how new equipment or an integrated equipment system would be integral in promoting the support of specialized research. An integrated system of equipment is defined as a piece of equipment that works in conjunction with another to perform a task that cannot be completed without the other. Applicants are also encouraged to use the highest level of energy efficient equipment to reduce environmental impacts. Award Information: The maximum project award is $400,000 and projects under $25,000 will not be considered. Multiple pieces of the same equipment are permitted, however the minimum award amount for a single piece of equipment is $10,000. Minor alteration and renovation efforts that would ensure proper installation are also permitted, if applicable, but the cost should not exceed 15 percent of the equipment costs. The project period should not exceed one year. CLOSED Annelise Nguyen (PI) NIH Outstanding New Environmental Scientist (ONES) Award (R01 Clinical Trial Optional) 11/4/21 2/24/22 The Outstanding New Environmental Scientist (ONES) Award is intended to identify the most talented Early Stage Investigators (ESIs) who intend to make a long-term commitment to research in the Environmental Health Sciences and assist them in launching an innovative research program focused on understanding the effects of environmental exposure on people's health. Only one application per School or College within a University is allowed. The budget for direct costs is composed of two elements - research direct costs and career enhancement costs. For most applications, the budget for research direct costs should be limited to $250,000 per year. With strong justification, research projects which have inherently higher costs may request direct costs of up to $400,000 per year. Career enhancement direct costs are limited to $250,000 direct costs, which can be distributed over the 5-year award period. Note: the total direct cost budget (research plus career enhancement) may not exceed $475,000 in any year of the award. The scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. The maximum project period is 5 years. CLOSED Karin Ardon-Dryer (PI) Moore Foundation The Moore Fellows - 2021-2022 10/8/21 Nominations Deadline 11/12/21 Agency Deadline 12/13/21 Institutions may submit up to two nominations. Candidates must be faculty, research scientists, postdocs or other full-time staff who can receive funding through their institutions. Candidates must be no more than 10 years past receiving the terminal advanced degree in their field (M.S., Ph.D. or M.D. received on or after 2012). The scope of this call is intentionally wide: proposed projects do not need to fall within our current funding priorities but should be broadly within the program areas of foundation interest (science, environmental conservation, and patient care). For patient care, inventions should resonate with our focus on improving the experience and outcomes of patients with solutions that improve clinical diagnosis. Each fellow will receive $200,000 per year from the foundation for three years. In addition, the foundation will provide the host institution with $25,000 each year to cover costs associated with administering the grant, resulting in a total three-year award of $675,000. Each host institution will be required to contribute $50,000 in annual direct support of the inventor's work. CLOSED CPRIT Core Facility Support Awards Application Available 10/13/21 Internal NOI Deadline 10/11/21 1/12/22 An institution may submit only 1 application (1 new, 1 renewal, or 1 resubmission) under this RFA during this funding cycle. An exception will be made for institutions submitting applications for core facilities that support research totally directed toward childhood and adolescent cancer; in this case, institutions may submit 1 childhood and adolescent cancer application and 1 additional application in another aspect of cancer research (new, renewal, or resubmission). The maximum duration for this award mechanism is 5 years. Applicants may request up to a maximum of $4,000,000 in total costs. CLOSED Klementina Fon Tacer (PI, School of Vet Med) CPRIT Early Clinical Investigator Award Application Available 10/13/21 Internal NOI Deadline 10/21/21 1/12/22 An institution may submit only 2 applications under this RFA during this funding cycle. This award is for up to 5 years providing applicants the opportunity to tailor the content and the duration of the award period based upon their individual program. Grant funds of up to $1,500,000 (total costs) may be requested. Funding may be used by the Early Clinical Investigator for salary and fringe support (salary up to the CPRIT maximum of $200,000/FTE), for didactic study including enrollment in a degree-granting graduate program, to obtain preclinical data including correlative assay development with a laboratory collaborator, and to support the research project involving an investigator-initiated interventional clinical trial that is a required component of this award. CLOSED CPRIT High-Impact/High Risk Research Awards Application Available 10/13/21 Internal NOI Deadline 10/20/21 1/12/22 In order to ensure timely and high-quality review of the most innovative and cutting-edge research with the greatest potential for advancement of cancer research, CPRIT is imposing a limit of 5 applications from an academic research institution and 1 each from public or private companies on the number of HIHR Research Award applications that may be submitted by an institution during this review cycle. Applicants may request a total of $250,000 for a period of up to 24 months (2 years), inclusive of both direct and indirect costs. CLOSED Wei Li (PI), Degeng Wang (PI), Sun Hee Yim (PI) & Siva Vanapalli (PI) *One spot available USAID Social and Behavior Change Research 10/8/21 12/31/29 To be considered as a potential prime on a full application, an organization must submit a concept paper (as an intended prime or sub-partner) to the relevant Round. Please note that a single organization may not submit more than one concept paper, in total, to any given Round; if an organization submits more than one concept paper to any Round, only the first one received (determined by email timestamp for the USAID POC) will be evaluated. The purpose of this APS is to strengthen the generation and utilization of SBC evidence to improve the uptake and continuation of healthy behaviors, including but not limited to healthy spacing and timing of pregnancies, care-seeking at onset of illness, adequate complementary feeding, childhood immunizations, use of health and nutrition services, and other health outcomes. To achieve this purpose, the SBC Research APS will focus on three key areas of work: 1. Research to answer priority social and behavioral science questions to improve the uptake and continuation of healthy behaviors; 2. Research to improve the monitoring and evaluation of SBC programs; 3. Technical assistance for improved SBC research utilization in USAID and host country government-funded health and development programs and policies.” CLOSED NSF Inclusion across the Nation of Communities of Learners of Underrepresented Discoverers in Engineering and Science (INCLUDES) 8/31/21 LOI Deadline: 10/4/21 Deadline: 1/2/22 An organization may serve as a lead organization on only one proposal. NSF INCLUDES Alliances build the infrastructure necessary to foster collaboration and broaden participation in STEM by emphasizing the following five design elements of collaborative infrastructure: Shared Vision Partnerships Goals and Metrics Leadership and Communication Potential for Expansion, Sustainability and Scale. The five design elements of collaborative infrastructure are critical for each NSF INCLUDES Alliance and require Alliances to: Develop a shared vision and strategy (e.g., problem statement and theory of change) for broadening the participation of the target population(s) in STEM along with relevant metrics of success and key milestones/goals to be achieved during the project's lifecycle; Develop multi-stakeholder partnerships and build infrastructure among them to decrease social distance and achieve progress on common goals targeted by the Alliance; Contribute to the knowledge base on broadening participation in STEM through broadening participation and implementation research, sharing project evaluations, data, new scientific findings/discoveries, and promising practices; Establish a "backbone" or support organization that provides a framework for communication and networking, network assistance and reinforcement, visibility and expansion of the Alliance and its partners, that will collaborate with the NSF INCLUDES Coordination Hub; Advance a logic model or other heuristic that identifies Alliance outcomes that reflect implementation of change at scale and progress toward developing an inclusive STEM enterprise. Estimated Number of Awards: 1 to 3. NSF INCLUDES anticipates funding up to three Alliances with a duration of five years, contingent upon the availability of funds and receipt of competitive proposals. Awards will range from $1,000,000 - $2,000,000 per year. Anticipated Funding Amount: $2,000,000 to $3,000,000 CLOSED Jessica Gottlieb (PI) NSF Innovations in Graduate Education (IGE) Program 9/10/21 3/25/2022 An eligible organization may participate in two Innovations in Graduate Education proposals per competition. Participation includes serving as a lead organization on a non-collaborative proposal or as a lead organization, non-lead organization, or subawardee on a collaborative proposal. Estimated Number of Awards: One award is anticipated. Anticipated Funding Amount: $500,000 in year one; remaining funds disbursed in years 2-5. The maximum award amount is $1,000,000 for five years. CLOSED NIH Team-Based Design in Biomedical Engineering Education (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) 3/10/22 5/30/22 Only one application per institution is allowed. The number of awards is contingent upon NIH appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications. Only one active grant will be supported at any institution at any one time. Direct costs of up to $20,000 per year may be requested. Programs that include a clinical immersion program outside the academic year and lasting 6 to 10 weeks (at least 30 hours per week) may request an additional $20,000 to cover participant costs (see Participant Costs section below), yielding a total of $40,000 in direct costs. Project durations of up to five years may be requested CLOSED NIH Maximizing Access to Research Careers(T34) 3/08/22 5/26/22 Only one application per institution is allowed. The number of awards is contingent upon NIH appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications. Application budgets should reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. Awards may be for project periods up to five years in duration and are renewable. CLOSED HSI DOD Releases FOA for Research and Education Program for HBCUs and MSIs 5/6/22 The Office of Naval Research (ONR), within the Department of Defense (DOD), released the funding opportunity announcement (FOA) for the fiscal year (FY) 2022 DOD Research and Education Program for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs). The program focuses on enhancing scientific and engineering research programs and capabilities at HBCUs and MSIs to increase the number of underrepresented minorities graduating in fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) important to the mission of the DOD. Applicants must focus their proposals on the following research and engineering priority areas set by the most recent National Defense Strategy: Artificial Intelligence/ Machine Learning Autonomy Biotechnology Cyber Directed Energy Fully Networked Command, Control and Communications (FNC3) Hypersonics Microelectronics Quantum Science Space (to include aerospace) 5G All designated HBCUs and MSIs are eligible to apply, especially minority institutions working to elevate their R2 status to R1. DOD anticipates awarding three grants, with each awardee receiving $9 million for a period of performance of five years. CLOSED NIH Basic Instrumentation Grant (BIG) Program 4/6/21 6/1/21 The BIG Program supports acquisitions of scientific instruments that are justified by investigators' needs to pursue their scientific projects in basic, translational, or clinical fields. The program requires that three Major Users with NIH-funded research projects demonstrate significant need for the requested instrument. The NIH will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. This means that the NIH will not accept: A new (A0) application that is submitted before issuance of the summary statement from the review of an overlapping new (A0) or resubmission (A1) application. A resubmission (A1) application that is submitted before issuance of the summary statement from the review of the previous new (A0) application. An application that has substantial overlap with another application pending appeal of initial peer review CLOSED DOE RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT AND PARTNERSHIP PILOT (RDPP) 3/23/22 4/20/22 Applicant institutions are limited to no more than two applications. DOE will consider the latest received submissions to be the institution's intended submissions. The mission of BER is to support transformative science and scientific user facilities to achieve a predictive understanding of complex biological, Earth, and environmental systems for energy and infrastructure security, independence, and prosperity. CLOSED Office of Research Development & Communications Like Office of Research Development & Communications on FacebookLike Office of Research Development & Communications on Facebook Follow Office of Research Development & Communications on twitterFollow Office of Research Development & Communications on twitter Subscribe to Office of Research Development & Communications on YouTubeSubscribe to Office of Research Development & Communications on YouTube Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Box 41075 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3885 Email ord.vpr@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 27, 2022 10:10 AM Office of Research Development & Communications Events/Workshops Office of Research Development & Communications Events/Workshops Back Upcoming Events/Workshops Office of Research Development & Communications Events/Workshops Upcoming Events/Workshops Back Grant Writing Seminars’ Workshop Shaking Up Servingness Past Events/Workshops Services Office of Research Development & Communications Services Back Request Services Proposal Development Finding Funding SCAN Sessions Program Officer Assistance Graphics Assistance Resources Office of Research Development & Communications Resources Back Proposal Library Video Library Broader Impacts Partners Limited Submissions Research at TTU Office of Research Development & Communications Research at TTU Back Discoveries Magazine Raider Impacts Watch Research Unfold Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index