Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Graduate Life Student Life & Well-Being Student Life & Well-Being See below for a list of campus resources intended to enhance your life as a student and support your well-being. The GSAS Office of Student Affairs is also available to meet with students and make referrals to resources and offices across the university (see contact information at right). Office of Student Affairs 107 Low Library, MC 4304 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4932 [email protected] Resources Health & Well Being Columbia Health View information about departments, the Columbia Health Fee, and more. Dodge Fitness Center The center features three floors of cardiovascular and strength equipment, an indoor running track, a swimming pool, multi-sport gymnasia, and ten squash courts. Sexual Respect at Columbia Sexual Respect is a commitment to communicating and acting with integrity and respect for others. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life fosters the well-being of the Columbia community and its people in their pursuit of meaningful and productive academic, personal, and work lives. Ombuds Office The Ombuds Office offers a confidential place to discuss workplace issues, academic concerns, issues relating to administrative paperwork and process, and other issues or concerns. Disability Services The Office of Disability Services (DS) facilitates equal access for students with disabilities by coordinating reasonable accommodations and support services. Family & Community Graduate Student Government Students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences are represented by two councils, both of which facilitate communication between graduate students and the Columbia administration. International Students and Scholars Office ISSO serves the immigration-related needs of Columbia’s international community, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues. Office of the University Chaplain The Office of the University Chaplain designs and sponsors a variety of programs on matters of justice, faith, and spirituality for small and large campus groups. Resources for Parents GSAS supports its doctoral students who are parents or become parents. Graduate Student Center This space brings together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty from across schools. Scholarship Resources to Facilitate Research The university has developed institutional policies regarding research and offers a number of resources that will facilitate your research endeavors. Columbia University Libraries The libraries are here to support your teaching and research. Upgraded Printing Accounts The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences covers the cost of upgraded PawPrint printing quotas for doctoral students in Arts and Sciences programs in their funding-eligible years. Email and Computing Learn about the many services and resources made available to students through Columbia University Information Technology. Student Life in NYC Arts Initiative The Arts Initiative encourages students to experience the creative life of the campus, engage the cultural riches of New York City, and to create art. Shuttle Buses The university operates a number of shuttle bus routes. Housing View detailed information about housing for MA and PhD students, as well as additional housing resources. Jury Duty If you are summoned for jury duty as a New York State resident, you may postpone your service once. Free and Discounted NYC for GSAS Students This series, by Maria Dimitropoulos, PhD Candidate in Classical Studies, offers information on events, programs, and activities made affordable to GSAS students with a CUID card. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close