Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Seismic Data on Deck: Sounding for the Cascadia Megathrust Fault Earth Sciences Seismic Data on Deck: Sounding for the Cascadia Megathrust Fault Using sound and a 7.5-mile-long streamer towed behind the boat, scientists can collect a tremendous amount of data from under the seafloor. By Brian Boston July 01, 2021 A diagram showing the R/V Marcus G. Langseth‘s sound emitters and sound waves bouncing off of different layers below the seafloor. A streamer of hydrophones towed behind the ship listens for these echoes. To help us in our search for the megathrust fault in the Cascadia subduction zone, the R/V Langseth is towing behind it a seismic sound source and a 12-km (~7.5 mile) streamer carrying hydrophones. With this equipment, we can collect a tremendous amount of data. But what are we actually collecting? Every time we release sound waves from our source, we record on the streamer energy that has traveled into the earth, bounced off layers of rock from the seafloor to the mantle, and returned to our streamer at the sea surface. The Langseth’s long streamer has 960 channels that record the energy for 15 seconds at a sampling rate of 2 milliseconds. This is enough time for the sound waves to travel deep into the earth’s crust and return to the sea surface to be recorded by our seismic streamer before repeating the process. However, because our streamer is very sensitive to help listen for faint geological signals bouncing back, we record not only signals from the earth, but also a range of noise that can be carefully removed to help us see what’s beneath us. Why do we need such a long seismic streamer if we’re just trying to look at what’s beneath us? There are two main reasons. Firstly, we can use the multiple recordings of the sound reflecting off each geological layer to help boost the reflection signal and reduce the amount of noise. Future work will focus on increasing the signal from geological features we’re interested in while reducing noise that can hide important information of the subsurface within it. Secondly, the long streamer helps us look at how the sound waves travel through earth’s crust, and this gives us velocity information. With both time and velocities in hand, we can then place geological layers in depth beneath the sea surface and allow for true geological interpretation of the data. Example of what is recorded after a single pulse from the seismic sound source during our experiment. Mild filtering was applied to help remove random unwanted noise and help increase the signal from the seafloor and underlying layers. Additional processing will take this raw data and create an image of the geology beneath the seafloor. This will then allow us to find and map out the megathrust fault along the Pacific Northwest. With the megathrust fault not only being located offshore of Cascadia but also kilometers beneath the seafloor, we need all the data we can get to tease out what the fault looks like. Brian Boston is an associate research scientist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Tags cascadia Earthquakes illuminating the cascadia subduction zone Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close