Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Communication Sciences and Disorders About the Department About the Profession Alumni and Friends Financial Assistance Contact Information People Faculty Staff Clinical Educators Students Programs Ph.D. Program Master's Program Undergraduate Post-Baccalaureate Leveling Program SLPA American Sign Language Interpreting (ASLI) Program Learning Abroad Speech, Language, and Hearing Mobile Unit Autism Mentoring Program University SLH Clinic About the Clinic Hearing Services Adult Speech-Language Services Child Speech-Language Services Summer Programs Community Outreach Clinic Forms Parking Research News News Archive Events Giving COMD, ASLI, and University SLH Clinic have moved to Melcher Life Sciences! To see our new space, click here. The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Houston houses 7 research laboratories committed to investigating various aspects of human communication. In 2020, 94% of our students passed the Praxis Exam on the first try with scores that were above the state and national averages, and more than 93% of our students were employed within 9 months after graduation. WELCOME TO THE POWERHOUSE! The American Sign Language Interpreting Program is the first baccalaureate degree for ASL Interpreting in Texas and our faculty possess expertise in training individuals to meet rigorous state and national certification standards. Previous Next Learn More about our Speech Language and Hearing Clinic Save Congratulation Dr. Mills! Monique Mills has been named Editor-in-Chief for Group 1 in Perspectives of the ASHA Special Interest Groups. USLHC Summer Programs Click here to learn more about the programs offered this summer. CCG will "Discover the Magic" in-person, and Sound Wizards and Reading Wizards are virtual programs focusing on speech sounds and literacy. SwIFT is a swallowing and feeding specialty clinic. Click here to view the magic from Summer 2021. NBASLH Award to UH Student Chapter Congratulations to our COMD student chapter who won the National Black Association for Speech-Language and Hearing 2022 Student Affiliate of the Year Award!! In Loving Memory of Dr. Scot Pott We mourn the passing of Dr. Scot Pott, Associate Instructional Professor in the ASLI program. Dr. Pott taught ASL courses at UH for nearly a decade. He was passionate about teaching his native language and was active in the deaf community locally and nationally. ASLI Collaboration with Main Street Theater The UH American Sign Language Interpreting Program is collaborating with Main Street Theater in “Pete the Cat” on April 2. Each actor will be shadowed by an ASL student performer who will deliver the lines in ASL. This allows for deaf and hearing audience members to watch and enjoy the action on the stage together. More News Graduate Students The Master of Arts education program in Speech-Language Pathology at the University of Houston is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Learn More Save Undergraduate Students The undergraduate curriculum provides a pre-professional foundation for graduate study in Communication Sciences and Disorders and related fields. Courses are offered in typical and disordered speech, language and hearing across the lifespan. Learn More Save Post-Baccalaureate Programs We offer two post-baccalaureate programs: The Leveling Program and the SLP Assistant program. Learn More Save American Sign Language Interpreting This program is designed to prepare students to effectively interpret between American Sign Language and English (spoken & written). Learn More Save University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies