COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! Office of Financial Aid Section Menu Home About Us Consumer Information Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Policies International Students Scholarships Types of Aid Need to visit with a financial aid professional? Contact us 24/7!Call, Chat, or Schedule a Financial Aid Appointment Apply for Aid COVID-19 Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Office of Financial Aid College can be one of the biggest and best investments of your life, so when it comes to paying for your education, you have options, and we’re here to help. Our staff in the Office of Financial Aid can answer your questions and guide you through the process of finding effective solutions to fund your education. Each year we disburse more than $100 million in grants, scholarships, work study, and student loans. Helpful Links Contact a financial aid representative Learn how to apply for federal aid Check your Financial Aid Dashboard Steps to accept your financial aid How to understand your aid offer Check out our Net Price Calculator Schedule an appointment Match, don't search. Finding and applying for external scholarships is now FASTER, EASIER and MOBILE with ScholarshipUniverse at Wichita State University. Learn more A Student's Perspective "Financial Aid has helped me to succeed by being another helping hand for me. It has allowed me to be able to cover the costs of college, so I am able to attend. Being the first in my family to attend college, receiving financial aid has helped me to pursue my dream of getting a college education." - Freshman Student, Elementary Education Types of Financial Aid Grants Loans Work Study Scholarships Contact Financial Aid 24/7 Our financial aid advisors look forward to visiting with you. Call, Chat, or Schedule a Financial Aid Appointment Upcoming Financial Aid Events & Workshops Navigating the world of financial aid can be a bit daunting, so we provide expert assistance to students and their families across Wichita and surrounding areas. We offer Financial Aid Information Night presentations, where we give a detailed outline of the financial aid process. We also offer FAFSA Completion Assistance, where we focus on completing the aid application as a first step for students on their journey to college. Check out the great events lined up for the Fall 2021 semester! Financial Aid Events & FAFSA Workshops Frequently Asked FAFSA Questions Additional Resources Common Questions Financial Aid FAQs Financial Aid Handouts & Publications Tips for Students with Special/Unique Circumstances Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appeal Tax Return Instructions Verification FAQs Informational Resources Consumer Information 2019-2020 Annual Report HEERF Reporting Contact the Office of Financial Aid Our helpful staff in the Office of Financial Aid can answer your questions and guide you through the process of finding effective solutions to fund your education. Meet the Team Hours & Contact Info Follow Us on Twitter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©