Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Teaching Graduate School Skip to Navigation Teaching admitted students home Developing teaching and presentation skills are measures of your development, whether you aim to teach, conduct research, or be a leader at a federal agency, a museum, or think tank. The Sheridan Center is an essential resource, dedicated to helping graduate students communicate to diverse audiences. The Instructional Development Project, part of Computing and Information Services, is another resource for effective teaching and learning at Brown. Doctoral candidates can serve as teaching assistants, while limited teaching opportunities are available to master’s students as MTAs. Doctoral candidates can gain experience teaching in other settings through the opportunities listed below. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Sciences Library, 7th floor 201 Thayer Street (401) 863-1219 [email protected] The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning The Sheridan Center provides a wide variety of programs, consulting services, and resources designed to help you succeed in graduate school and beyond. The Center can help you develop and refine your teaching, writing, and communication skills. The Sheridan Center’s offerings for graduate students include: Transcripted Teaching Certificate programs Online, self-paced program on Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Online, self-paced workshop on teaching statements and portfolios Workshops on a variety of teaching topics Inclusive Teaching newsletter Consultations on pedagogy, digital teaching, course design, and documenting your teaching Teaching observations Consultations and workshops on graduate writing Dissertation writing support, including week-long Dissertation Retreats and weekly writing groups English Language Support pre-orientation, workshops and consultations Online teaching resources Resource library of books, journals, and digital media about teaching and communication The Sheridan Center recommends completing the Sheridan Teaching Seminar Certificate during the first or second year of a doctoral program. Visit the Sheridan Center website for more information on our Certificate programs and events. The Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows Program A collaborative program involving the Brown Graduate School and Wheaton College offers semester a semester long teaching fellowship for qualified students. During their appointments at Wheaton, graduate students are responsible for all aspects of teaching a course. They work with a faculty mentor at Wheaton and are remunerated at the same stipend level as Brown teaching assistants. Wheaton is a selective, coeducational liberal arts college of 120 full-time faculty and 1,500 students. Located in Norton, Massachusetts, Wheaton has a national reputation for excellence in teaching. The campus, just eighteen miles from Brown, provides a collegial and congenial atmosphere in which Brown graduate students can gain mentored teaching experience in a liberal arts college setting. For more information on the program, visit the Brown/Wheaton webpage. Division of Precollege and Summer Undergraduate Programs 225 Dyer Street, Providence 401-863-7900 precollege.brown.edu summersession.brown.edu Division of Precollege and Summer Undergraduate Programs The Division recruits graduate students, post-docs and faculty to teach in a variety of credit-bearing and non-credit, on-campus, on-line and global academic programs, offered primarily during the summer, to pre-college and undergraduate students. These paid teaching appointments provide graduate students with opportunities to design and teach their own courses, an invaluable experience as they prepare for their future work, whether in teaching or in other fields. Non-credit courses are offered in sessions between one to four weeks, in an intensive format for high-achieving high school students. The full range of Brown's academic disciplines are represented among the many pre-college programs and courses offered, exposing pre-college students to the rich intellectual resources of the University. In the University's Summer and Winter Sessions, the undergraduate curriculum is extended into the summer and winter months, offering advanced graduate students with significant teaching experience the opportunity to teach undergraduate courses to undergraduate students. To teach in one of the pre-college programs, graduate students must be beyond their first year of study, be making satisfactory progress toward degree completion, have the endorsement of their Director of Graduate Study, teach a topic from their home department/discipline, and have some teaching or TA experience or have participated in the Sheridan Center’s Teaching Certificate programs or workshops. Many courses need TA support, and this is also an excellent way to prepare for future teaching. For further information on all programs and details on teaching opportunities, please visit our "For Instructors" page. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants