Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Access SMU: Empowering world changers for Texas A new initiative to help exceptional students from Texas who receive federal Pell Grants and SMU merit scholarships pursue their college dreams. learn morerequest info Go for big dreams SMU is launching Access SMU – additional merit scholarships – beginning with Texas students to meet full need for high-achieving scholars who receive federal Pell Grants and SMU merit scholarships. Regardless of financial background, the dream of pursuing an exceptional college education at SMU is fully within reach. At SMU, we welcome your ideas, passion and drive that help make our community strong. Our rigorous academics with distinguished faculty, incredible campus experiences and lifelong connections will launch your successful future. Learn more Diversity and inclusive excellence SMU by the numbers Life as a Mustang Financial aid FAQs Access SMU eligibility Apply to SMU Students eligible for Access SMU: • Enter SMU as a full-time, first-year student directly from high school. • Qualify for and receive a federal Pell Grant. 1, 2 • Receive a Founders', Second Century, Distinguished or Provost academic scholarship from SMU. • Have a permanent home address in Texas. 2 • Submit the FAFSA and CSS: Profile. 2 1. Students and families with a negative Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) are not eligible for this program. 2. Additional qualifications and verification may be required. Contact us We’re here to answer your financial aid questions. contact us SMU community 12,391 student enrollment 6,914 undergraduate/5,477 graduate (Fall 2021) 33% students of color (Fall 2021 undergraduate and graduate) A worldwide network that has your back 143,000+ SMU alumni worldwide, 65,000+ alumni in DFW Access top employers Multiple career centers help with pursuing internships or landing a job. 200+ student organizations where you can lead, serve and grow. 94% of SMU’s Cox School of Business Class of 2021 undergraduates were off the market at or around graduation. 84% of SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering students land internships; 82% employed at graduation. 90% SMU Simmons School applied physiology and sport management grads enter jobs or graduate school. 85% of SMU Class of 2021 graduates had jobs or were in graduate school within 6 months of graduation. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search