Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Engineering Sections Engineering Degrees Engineering Faculty Engineering News Training the Next Generation of Engineers Fill out the form below and we'll email you more information about UCF's online Engineering programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Aerospace Engineering, MSAEApplied PhotonicsCivil Engineering, MS (Smart Cities)Civil Engineering, MS (Structural)Civil Engineering, MS (Transportation)Civil Engineering, MS (Water Resources)Civil Engineering, MSCEData AnalyticsEngineering Management, MSEnvironmental Engineering, MS & MSVEFinTech, MSGuidance Control and DynamicsHealthcare Systems Engineering CertificateHealthcare Systems Engineering, MSIndustrial Engineering, MSIndustrial Engineering, MSIEInterdisciplinary Studies, BA/BSMaterials Science and Engineering, MSMSEMechanical Engineering, MSMEOptical Image SystemsOptics and Photonics, MSProject EngineeringQuality AssuranceSystems EngineeringSystems Engineering, MSSETravel Technology and Analytics, MS Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Search for a Degree Popular Online Engineering Programs Civil Engineering, MS (Smart Cities) Healthcare Systems Engineering, MS Aerospace Engineering, MSAE UCF Online Engineering Degree Programs As our world faces complex challenges, the engineering field is experiencing some of the fastest growth in terms of job openings and salary potential. Those who think about innovation often make the greatest impact on global communities. UCF Online is equipped to train the next generation of engineers to solve seemingly out-of-reach problems — from exploring new solar systems to developing nanotechnology to investigating brain disorders. Students from diverse educational and personal backgrounds find that UCF Online provides them with the skills and insight to tackle major impediments to progress, whether that means combating climate change, building smart cities or developing technology to provide clean water. We have built partnerships with the biggest names in engineering and technology, including NASA, Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Siemens and Walt Disney World, to give students an opportunity to apply their new skills and excel in any industry. Designed for both future and current professionals, our accredited online engineering degree programs create a positive, lasting impact on the engineering industry and beyond. Explore Online Engineering Degrees Online Master’s Online engineering master’s degrees are complete programs that range between 30 and 46 credit hours beyond a bachelor’s degree. Degree seekers can complete a program in as little as 2 years from their initial start date. A research thesis or comprehensive exam is typically required for the completion of a master’s degree within the engineering discipline — details vary from program to program. Aerospace Engineering, MSAE Civil Engineering, MS (Smart Cities) Civil Engineering, MS (Structural) Civil Engineering, MS (Transportation) Civil Engineering, MS (Water Resources) Civil Engineering, MSCE Engineering Management, MS Environmental Engineering, MS & MSVE FinTech, MS Healthcare Systems Engineering, MS Industrial Engineering, MS Industrial Engineering, MSIE Materials Science and Engineering, MSMSE Mechanical Engineering, MSME Optics and Photonics, MS Systems Engineering, MSSE Travel Technology and Analytics, MS Online Graduate Certificates Online engineering graduate certificates are micro graduate programs that range between 12 and 18 credit hours beyond a bachelor’s degree. Degree seekers can complete a program in as little as 1 years from their initial start date. Students earn their graduate certificate by completing the sequence of courses established by the engineering program. The certificate programs are ideal for students who are seeking a shorter program or may not desire a master’s degree. Applied Photonics Data Analytics Guidance Control and Dynamics Healthcare Systems Engineering Certificate Optical Image Systems Project Engineering Quality Assurance Systems Engineering Should I Get an Engineering Degree? With over 1.6 million engineering jobs across the nation and median pay of $42 per hour, the industry continues to be lucrative. The three most popular areas — civil engineering, electrical engineering and electronics engineering — account for two-thirds of the American engineering workforce. However, as rockets and satellites begin to launch into space again from Florida and several other states, engineers that manage software and hardware capabilities will see significant potential over the coming years. A great fit for those who like to solve complex problems or enjoy the design and ingenuity of various products, engineering offers exciting opportunities in a wide range of fields. With UCF Online engineering programs, develop valuable skills that can apply to many different areas — from leadership to business to creativity. Plus, with the release of new technologies every day, the engineering industry is more dynamic now than ever before. Our programs prepare you with the skills needed to break into and succeed in this fast-paced field. 1.6 Million Engineering Jobs in the U.S. 4% Job Growth Over 10 Years 23% of new engineering jobs expected to be civil engineering $ 91,010 Median Salary for Positions Nationwide According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Explore Engineering Careers Aerospace Engineer Civil Engineer Electrical Engineer Environmental Engineer Mechanical Engineer Materials Engineer Engineering Manager Physicist Product Engineer The course work and scheduling are very manageable and the instructors are understanding when there is a need to be flexible with the program.” Jason Dizon Online HSE Engineering Education at UCF UCF’s online engineering programs are designed by the same award-winning faculty using the same rigorous content and standards as our on-campus programs, ensuring that graduates are prepared to make an immediate impact in their chosen fields. In fact U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the best graduate education programs in the nation for engineering, mechanical engineering, and civil engineering. The flexibility of our online engineering programs and high caliber of instruction set us apart, allowing students to pursue a valuable UCF credential in a format that fits their busy lives. Download Brochure Engineering Faculty Celina Dozier, PhD Lecturer Ali Gordon Ph.D. Associate Dean, Professor Cliff Zou Ph.D. Program Director, Associate Professor Stephanie Florczyk Ph.D. Assistant Professor Ben Sawyer Ph.D. Director of LabX, Assistant Professor Mohamed Zaki Hussein PhD Assistant Professor Latest Engineering News Automation and Artificial Intelligence Careers for Innovators and Creatives How Autonomous Vehicles Will Influence Transportation of the Future Water Resource Engineering: Trends and Careers in Civil Engineering Comparing STEM vs. STEAM: Why the Arts Make a Difference 3 Environmental Engineering Careers What is an Engineering Project Manager? Aerospace Engineering Job Outlook in the United States and Abroad 5 STEM Space Activities, Resources and Lessons for Students and Educators How Much Do Civil Engineers Make? View more engineering stories Connect with a Coach × Fill out the form below and one of our success coaches will contact you about the online Engineering programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Aerospace Engineering, MSAEApplied PhotonicsCivil Engineering, MS (Smart Cities)Civil Engineering, MS (Structural)Civil Engineering, MS (Transportation)Civil Engineering, MS (Water Resources)Civil Engineering, MSCEData AnalyticsEngineering Management, MSEnvironmental Engineering, MS & MSVEFinTech, MSGuidance Control and DynamicsHealthcare Systems Engineering CertificateHealthcare Systems Engineering, MSIndustrial Engineering, MSIndustrial Engineering, MSIEInterdisciplinary Studies, BA/BSMaterials Science and Engineering, MSMSEMechanical Engineering, MSMEOptical Image SystemsOptics and Photonics, MSProject EngineeringQuality AssuranceSystems EngineeringSystems Engineering, MSSETravel Technology and Analytics, MS Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida