Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Epidemiology MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Epidemiology MS Apply Request More Info Epidemiology MS Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Epidemiology The Master of Science in Epidemiology in Temple’s College of Public Health prepares students for advanced study and research-oriented careers in epidemiology. Students learn to use rigorous epidemiologic methods and appropriate analyses to answer pressing research questions related to the public’s health. The master’s degree program will prepare you as a public health professional with expertise in application of modern statistical computing software, such as SAS and R, and statistical methods for large and complex data sets in public health and medicine; data management of health-related cross-sectional, experimental, longitudinal and survey data; study design and appropriate data analyses that can be used to accurately quantify and assess population-based, health-related outcomes; and proficiently interpreting and presenting results to various audiences. Epidemiology is considered the foundational science of public health. It allows researchers and practitioners to identify and understand the descriptive characteristics, determinants and risk factors that influence the public’s health. Students in the Epidemiology MS degree program examine complex global and local challenges related to chronic and infectious diseases; train to understand determinants of, and methodological issues in, cancer and social epidemiology; and apply their knowledge and skills to develop projects that seek to answer timely research questions. Our graduates are prepared for doctoral programs, as well as for work in a wide range of settings, including academic institutions; applied research settings in health systems and hospitals; federal agencies (such as the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the National Institutes of Health and U.S. Centers for Disease Control); and local and state health departments. Graduates might pursue careers as epidemiologists; healthcare analysts, health equity managers or health system specialists; research/program managers and analysts; and other positions. What sets apart our Epidemiology MS? Collaborative, interdisciplinary education: The program has a 2-to-1 student-to-faculty ratio, providing students with opportunities to work and engage with diverse faculty. Our location in the College of Public Health encourages interdisciplinary research and prepares students to work in interdisciplinary environments. Renowned professors: Our faculty includes experts who focus on behavioral and chronic disease epidemiology, cancer prevention and control, social determinants, and water-related diseases. They have practical experience working in interdisciplinary teams in a wide variety of settings, including community-based entities; federal, state and local government agencies; health systems and clinical practices; and international nongovernmental organizations. Real-world experience: You will gain hands-on experience working on projects with faculty, local or state agencies, private companies, or nonprofit organizations—making you competitive and prepared to launch your career after graduation. Program Format Students complete the Epidemiology MS on-site. The master’s program offers a flexible curriculum: Students can choose to study full time to complete the MS in two years or part time to finish it in three years. Students take core courses in epidemiology to advance their understanding and application of epidemiological and statistical methodology necessary for productive careers to improve the public’s health. Courses in the program address topics such as analyses of hierarchical (multilevel or clustered) data; data management and coding of health-related data; latent variable and structural equation modeling; methodological issues and strategies for prevention of leading chronic diseases; multivariable regression of general linear and generalized linear models; and social, behavioral and biological determinants of cancer and current methods in cancer epidemiology research and practice. See a full list of program courses. Thesis All students in the Epidemiology MS program are required to complete two semesters of thesis planning and development with department faculty supervision. The master’s thesis documents the student’s independent research and demonstrates mastery of a primary area of interest. The specific thesis topic is selected given the student’s interests and opportunities to advance epidemiologic research. Epidemiology MPH vs. Epidemiology MS The Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics offers both an MPH and an MS in Epidemiology. Though the two master’s degrees have many similarities, they are distinct from each other in the following ways. Coursework: The MPH includes core courses in the fundamentals of public health, covering biostatistics, environmental health, epidemiology, health policy, and social and behavioral sciences. The MS, in contrast, includes core courses that focus primarily on epidemiology. Culminating experience: Students in the MPH program complete two semesters of community-based fieldwork and a final master’s project. Students in the MS program complete two semesters of independent research, including a final thesis project. Competencies: The MPH meets all competencies set forth by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). The MS meets many, but not all, CEPH competencies. Depending on the specific electives that you choose in either program, you can gain many of the same skills and be prepared for many of the same careers after graduation, regardless of which program you choose. Related Graduate Degrees The College of Public Health also offers the MPH in Epidemiology, which prepares students for practice-oriented or research-oriented careers. Other related graduate degrees include the PhD in Epidemiology, MPH in Applied Biostatistics, Clinical Health Services Research Certificate, and MS in Clinical Research and Translational Medicine. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-EPID-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Epidemiology MS Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info