Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Student Employment Information for Employers Student Employment Job Listings Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Information for Employers On-Campus Employers Off-Campus Federal Work-Study Employers Other Off-Campus Employers Print Open All Close All Job Postings Departments or offices on campus are able to create their student job requests, as well as control the posting of their student job listings on the Student Services/Student Employment website through PeopleSoft Human Resources. For more information, view the Instructions for Creating and Deleting Student Job Requests PDF. To post student hourly positions on the Student Services/Student Employment website as well as process student hires, those without PeopleSoft HR Hourly Student Hiring access should contact their department's designated P-1 official to request this access. All PeopleSoft HR Student Hiring documentation as well as the Access Request Form filled by the department's designated P-1 can be found on the Human Resources website. Employment Period The summer employment period begins Sunday, May 22, 2022 and ends Saturday, August 27, 2022. The academic year employment period begins Sunday, August 29, 2021 and ends Saturday, May 21, 2022. Limits on Student Employee Hours There are two student employment periods during the year: Summer and Academic Year. During the Academic Year, students may work no more than 20 hours per week for Boston College, even if working more than one job for BC. This aggregate limit applies to all assistantships, stipends in compensation for services, and hourly positions. Students may work more than 20 hours per week (but less than 30 hours) between semesters and Spring Break. During the Summer, students may work 30 or more hours per week (to a maximum of 40 hours per week), but may not work more than 12 weeks of the summer employment period working these hours as a student employee of Boston College, even if working more than one job for BC. Students may only work more than 12 weeks out of our 14-week summer employment period if they average no more than 29 hours per week throughout the summer. International students on an F-1 or J-1 visa are limited to working on campus for a total of no more than 20 hours per week while school is in session, as cited in immigration regulations. This includes all on-campus jobs, whether hourly-paid or monthly stipend-paid. In addition, international students are only permitted to work full-time up to 40 hours per week for a maximum of 12 weeks on campus during vacation periods over the summer (if the student is not taking classes). International students may work up to 29 hours per week during semesters and Spring breaks. Weeks that include a one-day holiday such as Columbus Day or Good Friday are not considered to be vacation periods. Human Resources will be monitoring hours being worked, and it is expected that employers as well as their student employees will do the same to ensure compliance with University policy. New Hires General onboarding requirements and forms for new student employees can be found on our New Hires page. Please note you will not be able to process the new hire of a BC student in PeopleSoft HR until the Form I-9 requirement has been completed and the system updated accordingly. Boston College Undergraduate and graduate students working hourly-paid/weekly payroll positions must complete their Form I-9, as well as a Payroll Form Statement (Student Hours Form), at the Office of Student Services in Lyons Hall. Graduate students paid a monthly service stipend, as well as Non-BC students and exchange students on J-1 visa, must complete their Form I-9 and Payroll Form Statement (Student Hours Form), at the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC) at 129 Lake Street, Brighton campus. Non-BC students, including recent graduates of Boston College, may not be hired through the online PeopleSoft HR process. The Hire Form used to hire these students can be found on the Human Resources Forms page. If hired for the first time, they will also need to complete their Form I-9 and Payroll Form Statement at the HRSC. Wages and hours are governed by the same guidelines and policies applicable to BC students. Payment Hourly paid student employees are paid for actual hours worked. They are not paid for lunch breaks, sick days (during the academic year), holidays, or as a result of any emergency closing or early dismissal. Meal Breaks and Rest Periods for Employees Student employees who work six consecutive hours that day/shift are entitled to a 30 minute unpaid meal break. According to Massachusetts law, an employee may waive the right to a half-hour meal break per six hours of work, but in such cases an employer should document day-by-day with the employee’s signature, or on an open-ended basis for which the employee signs once when the employee chooses to waive the right to the half-hour meal break. It is up to the department whether to allow the employee to work through the meal break; and, if permitted, the employee has to be paid for the time worked. In addition to one unpaid meal break, non–exempt employees, including student employees, are entitled to a 15 minute break or rest period after each half-day worked. Such breaks are paid. The break should be scheduled by the student’s supervisor and it should not be added to the beginning or ending of that work day. Payment to Students for One-Time Service Students performing one-time services for the University must be hired by their department through the PeopleSoft HR system in order to be identified and then paid. As with any new University hire, students performing and compensated for one-time services are required to complete the federally-mandated Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9, complete the Federal (W-4) and State (M-4) tax withholding forms, and sign up for payroll direct deposit. A student Job Request needs to be created for that particular employment period: Summer or Academic Year. The employer can use the student job title of "Service Provider" (Job Class 920600, Job #627 listed in the Student Job Classifications table in PeopleSoft HR). Please be certain to include a brief description of the specific duties performed by the student(s). Students hired for one-time service are hired through the regular hourly-wage student hire process and are on the University's payroll system for that one-time service. Further Questions? Please contact the Office of Student Services if you have any questions concerning hourly wage student employment policies. Contact the appropriate budgetary approval office if you have questions concerning budgetary fiscal matters. Contact the Human Resources Service Center concerning the processing of hire forms in PeopleSoft/HR or time records in Kronos. Contact the Office of International Students and Scholars if you have any questions about on-campus employment for international students. Print Open All Close All Becoming a Federal Work-Study Agency Please read the following information carefully if your organization is a non-profit or government office and is interested in employing a Boston College student at any time during the summer and/or academic year through Federal Work-Study (FWS), including Community Service. Non-profit and government agencies interested in participating in this program need to complete, sign, and submit for review and approval contracts and student job request forms, as well as provide supporting documentation as referenced in the contract package. Please note that this is not a cost-free program for your agency, which is responsible for a percentage of the student's earnings, as referenced in the contract, payable to Boston College and not paid directly to the student. The contract package for 2021–2022 can be requested by calling the Boston College Office of Student Services at (617) 552-3300 or emailing studentservices@bc.edu. The contract package consists of: A cover letter Two blank contracts One blank Student Job Request form (this blank form may be photocopied) One copy of our Student Job Classifications and Wage Structure An authorized employee at the agency will need to complete and sign both contracts, as well as a separate job request form for each different job title selected from our Student Job Classifications and Wage Structure. Contracts, job requests, and supporting documentation are to be sent to: Boston College Office of Student Services Lyons Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Once approved, the contracts and student job request forms will be valid through May 21, 2022, as long as the agency's account is in good standing with Boston College. Job Listings on Our Website We are unable to guarantee that your job will be filled. However, listings received in good order will be made available on our website, and any interested student will contact your agency directly for further information and/or schedule an interview. Employment Period The summer employment period begins Sunday, May 22, 2022 and ends Saturday, August 27, 2022. The employee may not begin working through this program prior to May 22. The academic year employment period begins Sunday, August 29, 2021 and ends Saturday, May 21, 2022. The employee may not begin working through this program prior to August 29. Hiring Process When your agency decides to hire a Boston College student through this program, an authorized employee at the agency must complete and sign part of our Hire/Rehire Form for that student and return that form to our office for review and approval before the student begins working. Please note that the student has to have been awarded Federal Work-Study for that specific employment period by his or her financial aid counselor in order to work under this program. Students are paid by way of submitted Boston College student time sheets. Compliance on Boston College Hours Policy BC students are employees of Boston College although they are working at your agency through this program, so please note the following Boston College policy which applies to all BC students even if the student works more than one job for BC: During the summer, BC students may work 30 or more hours per week (to a maximum of 40 hours per week), but they may not work more than 12 weeks of the summer employment period working these hours as a student employee of Boston College. Students may only work more than 12 weeks of our summer employment period if they average no more than 29 hours per week throughout this summer period. During the academic year, students may continue to work up to 20 hours per week but no more than 29 hours per week between semesters and during Spring Break. Boston College Human Resources will be monitoring hours, and it is expected that employers and their student employees will do the same to ensure compliance. Availability of Contract Packages Contract packages for Summer 2022 and Academic Year 2022–2023 are available. Agencies in good standing will be sent packages. Please contact our office for a package to be sent. Handshake The Boston College Career Center invites third-party employers to post jobs and internships for Boston College students and alumni on Handshake, the Career Center’s online career management platform. Please take a moment to review the guidelines before creating your account and posting a job or internship to Boston College students. Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an online platform connecting the global BC community through lifelong, professional conversations. This platform facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni and becomes a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Information on how to join the Eagle Exchange community can be found on the Eagle Exchange website. You can contact eagleexchange@bc.edu if you have any questions about the Eagle Exchange platform. Eagle Exchange is brought to you by the Boston College Alumni Association and Career Center. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College