Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Research Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Interest Form About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Studies Currently Enrolling Completed Studies Clinical Trials Participation Clinical Trials Interest Form About About Investigators Staff Resources & Procedures Newsletter The Center for Clinical Research (CCR) is dedicated to conducting trials in a safe, professional and respectful manner in order to contribute to the discovery of new treatments in all areas of medicine. Studies Currently Enrolling Clinical Trials Participation The Center for Clinical Research conducts clinical trials in order to further the knowledge of clinicians about disorders and potential treatments, so the best care can be determined for patients. The most important task of the Center for Clinical Research is to monitor all research participants for safety throughout the entirety of their participation by performing lab tests, procedures and receiving feedback from participants. We strive to deliver a pleasant experience for all participants enrolled in a clinical trial by interacting in a professional manner and treating all participants with respect. Interested in participating in a clinical trial? Call us at 316-293-1833, or complete the online interest form. Clinical Trials Interest Form KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.