Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Political Science Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Political Science Major Apply Visit Request More Info Political Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Learn diverse theoretical and methodological approaches to studying international affairs, politics and important current issues with the Bachelor of Arts in Political Science at Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Through the 123-credit undergraduate curriculum, you’ll investigate American politics at the local, state and federal levels, as well as international relations and classical and modern political thought. Debate political theory and how power and resources should be allocated in society. Learn to write effectively, build excellent research skills and critically evaluate U.S. democracy while studying the following four distinct subfields of political science. American politics, which explores American elections, political institutions, public opinion and the media. Comparative politics, which emphasizes political systems outside of the U.S., as well as mass political behavior across a broad range of contexts. International relations, which investigates the interaction and conflict between governments around the globe. Political theory, which evaluates individual behavior within a political system and brings clarity to key concepts of equality, democracy, freedom and justice. Students in the Political Science BA program become capable, engaged and intelligent citizens through active, real-world participation in our governmental systems. Students can intern in Washington, D.C., or spend a semester participating in state politics in Harrisburg, the Pennsylvania state capital. Graduates are prepared for careers in advocacy and community organizations, government agencies, social services or unions among many others. They are also prepared to pursue graduate degrees in international affairs or law. Temple’s Political Science faculty are nationally recognized in their fields, and offer classes related to their current research and writing specialties. Some of these topics include childhood and multigenerational poverty; political psychology; prekindergarten finance policy; public assistance programs; race, ethnicity and politics; the politics of development aid; threat perception in U.S. foreign policy; and urban politics. Classes & Curriculum Students explore each subfield of political science in a general sequence of study. Introductory classes include Foreign Government and Politics, International Politics, Introduction to Political Philosophy, and The American Political System. After introductory classes are completed, coursework begins focusing on research and critical thinking skills. Students take Evidence and Knowledge, two research preparation classes and three upper-level electives. Two of the three electives can be satisfied with the completion of an internship. The BA culminates with the writing intensive Capstone Seminar course, bridging student knowledge and analysis with the development of an individual research project. Learn more about Political Science Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Political Science MA Political Science PhD Public Policy MPP Political Economy Undergraduate Certificate Expand your political science education with an Undergraduate Certificate in Political Economy. You'll study how government actions and economic conditions shape public policy and society as a whole. This certificate is an excellent primer for graduate programs in economics, law, political science and public policy. 4+1 Master of Public Policy Earn a BA in Political Science and a Master of Public Policy in five years. Apply for the program during your third or fourth year of undergraduate study and begin taking graduate coursework. Learn more about accelerated programs in the College of Liberal Arts. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Nicolaos Catsis is the academic advisor for the Political Science Department. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: ncatsis@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Political Science Major, contact the following staff members. Erin Dwyer is the internship and career coordinator for the Political Science Department. Phone: 215-204-1469 Email: erin.dwyer@temple.edu LaTasha Goodman is the academic coordinator. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: lgoodman@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Political Science Department. Robin Kolodny is the chair. Phone: 215-204-7709 Email: rkolodny@temple.edu Alexandra Guisinger is the undergraduate chair. Email: alexandra.guisinger@temple.edu Jessica Brennan is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Political Science BA program. The Political Science Society represents the opinions and interests of Political Science undergraduates and hosts personal and professional development activities, including career forums, law and graduate forums, lectures, seminars on popular topics, student and faculty mixers, and trips to New York City and Washington, D.C. Pi Sigma Alpha is the national Political Science Honor Society for students who have distinguished themselves in the field of political science. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in one of the Political Science BA program's unique study away opportunities. The Pennsylvania Capital Semester offers students a seat in the heart of Pennsylvania’s state government and an advantage in today’s competitive job market. Gain practical tools and direct contact with leaders and policymakers by exploring government affairs, policymaking and implementation in real-world experiences. Acceptance into this program helps students with internship placements. The Washington Semester delivers valuable career experience in the nation’s capital, Washington, D.C. Participate in an internship that prepares students for careers in politics, policy or related professions. Network with government leaders and students from around the world, choose from a diverse array of programs with The Washington Center, and stay on track to graduate on time. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-POLS-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Political Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info