Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Student news, notes, and accolades News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Student news, notes, and accolades News and notes highlighting the work of students from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. 2022 Zeenith Ebrahim, DrPH ’23, has received a prestigious fellowship from Echoing Green. The award recognizes her work as a social entrepreneur who uses innovative solutions to solve entrenched societal problems. She is the founder of Jamii Life, an organization in South Africa that is redesigning home care delivery. Jamii Life’s technology platform connects patients, families, and home caregivers in order to improve accessibility, transparency, quality of care, and peace of mind. Tiffani Bell Washington, MPH ’22, has been named a “40 under 40” leader by the National Minority Quality Forum. The award recognizes minority health leaders under the age of 40 who work to improve patient outcomes, strengthen communities, and reduce health disparities. Washington is a physician providing culturally centered care for minority populations while treating obesity and mental health disorders. 2021 Tigist (Tiggy) Menkir, a PhD student working with Caroline Buckee, professor of epidemiology and associate director of the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, was featured on the July 6, 2021, episode of the podcast “From where does it STEM?” Menkir discussed her work using machine learning-based methods, spatial statistics, and traditional dynamic models for infectious disease surveillance, with a focus on data-limited settings and marginalized populations. Shawna Narayan, a student in the Summer Session for Public Health Studies, has been honored with the Diana Award for going above and beyond to create and sustain positive change. Narayan is executive director of Empower the Future, a nonprofit focused on breaking barriers in STEM fields and supporting the mental wellbeing of underrepresented groups, including LGBTQ+, ethnic minorities, and inner-city students. The Diana Award is considered the highest accolade a young person can achieve for social action or humanitarian efforts. It was established in memory of Diana, Princess of Wales. Julien Heidt, a second-year SM-80 student in the Department of Epidemiology, is this year’s recipient of the Dimitrios Trichopoulos Memorial Award. The award honors the late Dr. Trichopoulos, past chair of the Department of Epidemiology, and was created to serve as an extension of Dr. Trichopoulos’ dedication to epidemiology, his kind spirit, and his altruistic views. Jemar Bather, a PhD candidate in the Department of Biostatistics, was named a “Rising Star” as part of a list of up-and-coming black mathematicians who are already exhibiting promising potential and providing outstanding contributions for the math community. Bather was one of four students named on the Mathematically Gifted & Black website. Last November, Bather was named a Fellow of Massachusetts General Hospital’s Fostering Diversity in HIV Research Program. Tariana Little, who earned a DrPH last year, was recognized as a “student who rocked public health” in 2020 for producing a series of inspiring videos during the pandemic. Little was one of nine students from across the U.S. highlighted for their public health efforts in JPHMP Direct, the companion site of the Journal of Public Health Management and Practice. 2020 Four Harvard Chan School students have been selected to join the 2020 cohort of Adrian Cheng Fellows by The Social Innovation and Change Initiative (SICI) at Harvard Kenndy School. They include Antón Castellanos Usigli, DrPH ’22; Bishal Belbase, MPH ’21; Madison Esposito, MPH ’21; and Kwabena Lartey, MPH ’21. Cheng Fellows focus on building community wealth, creating healthier communities, transforming healthcare systems, and re-imagining education. They include healthcare intrapreneurs, educators, nonprofit leaders, social entrepreneurs, organizers, and community change-makers. Doctoral student Brigette Davis received a dissertation award from the National Collaborative of Gun Violence Research. Her dissertation is titled “The Impact of Police Violence and Prolonged Sociopolitical Conflict on Birth Outcomes.” Two Harvard Chan School doctoral students have been awarded the 2020 Dissertation Research Award from the Lee Kum Sheung Center for Health and Happiness. Ashley Gripper, PhD candidate in the Department of Environmental Health, won for her dissertation titled “An Environmental Justice Approach to Exploring the Connection between Urban Agriculture and Health in Philadelphia.” Eric Coles, DrPH candidate, won for his dissertation titled “Measuring the Health Impact of Community Development Interventions.” 2019 Two Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health students have been named to a list of “Students Who Rocked Public Health 2019,” from the Journal of Public Health Management and Practice. Receiving honorable mentions on the list were Jane Carpenter, MPH ’20, for helping develop a citywide initiative in Cambridge, Mass. to promote children’s mental well-being; and Sitara Mahtani, MPH ’20, who worked on a project in Cambridge to improve oral health for schoolchildren. From left: Beckerman, Schwartz, Zemplenyi Three doctoral candidates from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health—Jacob Beckerman, Gabriel Schwartz and Michele Zemplenyi, all PhD ’20 students—have been awarded the 2019-20 Djokovic Science and Innovation Fellowship. The fellowship supports the research of Harvard doctoral students whose work aligns with the mission of the Center on the Developing Child, which is to drive research that achieves groundbreaking results for children coping with adversity. Beckerman is studying ways to prevent obesity by improving early childhood nutrition. Schwartz is exploring the links between neighborhoods, social policy, and racial and health inequities. Zemplenyi is using biostatistics to study the long-term health effects of prenatal exposure to toxins. 2018 Two students from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health—Scott Delaney and Zhihui Li—have been awarded the 2018-19 Djokovic Science and Innovation Fellowship. The fellowship supports the dissertation research of Harvard doctoral students whose research aligns with the mission of the Center on the Developing Child, which is to drive science-based innovation that achieves breakthrough outcomes for children facing adversity. Delaney, SD ’19, is studying the effects of child poverty and stress on brain development; Li, PhD ’20, is studying the impact of prenatal exposure to sand and dust storms on fetal and child health and development. Katherine Wu, a fourth-year PhD student in Eric Rubin’s lab at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, was awarded an AAAS Mass Media Science & Engineering Fellowship for the summer of 2018, when she will be working as a science writer at Smithsonian Magazine. The highly competitive fellowship strengthens the connections between scientists and journalists by placing advanced undergraduate, graduate, and post-graduate level scientists, engineers, and mathematicians at media organizations nationwide. Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website