COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Graphic Design, Major MajorGraphic Design All Programs College of Fine Arts Graphic Design Pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in graphic design at Wichita State will prepare you for competitive, client-based work in an ever-changing visual and virtual environment. You'll develop your creative design skills for advertising, branding, motion graphics, video games, web and apps, illustration, typography, packaging and print publications. Learn how graphic design is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Graphic design graduate shares her Wichita love with community Graphic design student are free to pursue their passions as part of their careers. While Alyssa Johnson was finishing her last semester as a graphic design major, she was also busy starting her own business, Wichita with Love. Using the skills she learned as a student, Alyssa launched her shop, where she sells screen printed graphic tees, buttons, pins, tote bags and her signature accessory, a knotted headband. Curriculum You'll start by taking art foundation courses and introductory graphic design courses. After you complete them, and get admitted into the program, you'll complete the graphic design emphasis coursework over four semesters during your junior and senior year. View the curriculum Careers A degree in graphic design from Wichita State will help build your skills, your confidence and your portfolio—leading to careers such as creative director, advertising executive, communications professional and designer in a wide range of settings. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Art Art Education Applied Drawing (Studio Art) Electronic Media (Studio Art) Painting (Studio Art) Photo Media (Studio Art) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©