Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Clinical Faculty Advisory Committee (CFAC) The Clinical Faculty Advisory Committee (CFAC) Mission Statement The mission of the Clinical Faculty Advisory Committee (CFAC) is to represent the clinical and clinician educator track faculty and to acknowledge and promote their essential role in the success of the academic/educational enterprise at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Welcome On behalf of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, I wish to thank you for your commitment to the educational process at Brown. As Chair of the Clinical Faculty Advisory Committee (CFAC), I have the responsibility of ensuring effective communication and successful collaboration of the Medical School and its clinical faculty in pursuit of its educational mission. In order to facilitate this collaboration, I would like to introduce the committee and inform you about some of our programs. It is our hope that they will lead you to a closer integration and identification with the Brown medical community. The Clinical Faculty Advisory Committee (CFAC) is a diverse group of physicians who serve as representatives of the clinical faculty and present issues of importance to the medical school administration. CFAC members represent various interest groups within the clinical faculty; including different specialty groups, hospital and community practices, institutional affiliations, and geographical locations. The members of the CFAC are published on our website and are available to you. Please explore our webpage for additional information regarding our mission, faculty benefits, teaching awards, criteria for appointment and promotion, and teaching opportunities. The first and most important ingredient of a new faculty member’s successful collaboration within the University community is obtaining a Brown ID card through the Brown Card Office. This card is the key to many of the faculty perquisites. With the Brown ID, the formidable resources of the library, medical connections and the library's helpful staff will be at your service. The ID also helps you acquire a Brown University User ID which allows you to establish a Brown email account. To facilitate our important electronic communications, we encourage you to have this e-mail account forwarded to your home or office. Information on this process can be found on the Brown CIS website. The ID card also opens the doors to membership in our recreational facilities and the Faculty Club with its reciprocal privileges at over one hundred clubs across the US and abroad. Another important function of the CFAC is to select recipients of the annual Dean’s Excellence in Teaching Awards. These honors are given to clinical faculty who demonstrate outstanding skills as educators. Nominations for the awards are forwarded to the committee by department chairs and division directors who submit a dossier which includes teaching evaluations, the candidate's CV, and letters of recommendation to the CFAC for consideration. The clinical faculty is the lifeblood of our medical school and is deserving of that recognition. We hope that the CFAC can help facilitate expression of the University’s appreciation for the expertise and teaching which you provide and we look forward to exploring new and unique ways of highlighting this commitment. I welcome any and all suggestions you may have in this regard. Catherine Cummings, M.D. Home By-Laws CFAC Member List Dean's Excellence in Teaching Awards Faculty Benefits Meeting Schedule Office of BioMed Communications Office of BioMed Faculty Administration Office of Continuing Medical Education Office of Women in Medicine and Science Teaching Opportunities for Clinical Faculty Feedback Print this Page Share this Page BioMed Faculty Administration Brown University Box G-R240 233 Richmond Street 2nd Floor - Room #240 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1672 Fax 401-863-2940 [email protected] Biology and Medicine Events Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Jun 3 8:30am - 9:30am Pediatric Grand Rounds Jun 8 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds* Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Jun 8 3:00pm - 5:00pm CDH Pitch Competition Jun 10 8:30am - 9:30am Pediatric Grand Rounds View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Faculty Sites BioMed Faculty Administration (BMFA) Educational Faculty Development Medical Faculty Executive Committee (MFEC) Other Brown Sites Alpert Medical School Office of Diversity & Multi-Cultural Affairs Office of Institutional Diversity Office of Women in Medicine