Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search B.E. & W.R. Miller BuildLab Marion Manley Buildings Perez Architecture Center Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships B.E. & W.R. Miller BuildLab Marion Manley Buildings Perez Architecture Center Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building Home Resources Facilities Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building AAA Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building B.E. & W.R. Miller BuildLab Marion Manley Buildings Perez Architecture Center Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building Has Won "Building of the Year" (2018 Contest was sponsored by World-Architects, a prestigious architecture group). The recently-opened Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building, a state-of the-art building at the University of Miami School of Architecture, designed by Arquitectonica and built by Coastal Construction, has won the title of 2018 Building of the Year by World-Architects, a prestigious worldwide network of architects and building professionals. The building, which received much attention in the media since its completion, bested 42 other buildings in the United States, and will be featured in the World-Architects website and newsletter for the month of February. "The enthusiastic reception worldwide is a great validation of the tremendous effort and care invested by all in the project—the university, donors, architects, and builders," said Dean of the School of Architecture Rodolphe "Rudy" El-Khoury. "We were thrilled to see the building on the list of 43 nominees; to learn now that it actually won the highest distinction of "Building of the Year" is just amazing. It says loud and clear that at the U, we are doing it right!" Tom Murphy, Jr. Chairman and CEO of Coastal Construction was the lead donor for the Studio, named in memory of his father, was ecstatic about the accolade. “My father was my mentor and best friend. He taught me the importance of family and values I have are a result of watching him lead by example. This year I am celebrating my 50th year in business and can’t think of a more fitting tribute than to see this build name in his honor, recognized as the 2018 U.S. Building of the Year,” said Murphy, Jr. READ MORE >> DEDICATION CEREMONY RECAP >> The Thomas P. Murphy Design Studio Building, named by Tom P. Murphy Jr., the President, founder and CEO of Coastal Construction, in memory of his father, is LEED-certified and includes studios to accommodate approximately 120 students. It includes a state-of-the-art fabrications lab and modern workstations, designed to enable advanced digital production. A lounge, computer lab, presentation areas, review spaces and offices are additional amenities. The facility occupies about 20,000 square feet, which includes indoor and outdoor jury areas where students present their final projects before esteemed peers and faculty. The concrete and glass structure is simple and elegant, yet features exposed mechanical and electrical interior elements to serve as a teaching experience for students. The floor to ceiling seamless windows feature the most advanced glass technology available. The interior boasts minimal support structures to maximize flexible furniture placement, preparing students for modern collaborative workspaces. The customized, high-technology, architectural windows are manufactured by Tecnoglass Inc. Donors who have enabled the completion of the Building include Arquitectonica Foundation, Tecnoglass, Winnie & Larry Kearns, B. Arch '85, and Rolando Llanes, B. Arch '83. An anonymous donor enabled the purchase of equipment for the Fabrication Lab. View more: Innovative architecture facility facilitates hands-on learning, News @TheU About the Architect: Arquitectonica Foundation was founded 38 years ago by Bernardo Fort-Brescia and Laurinda Spear, two of the leading architects of a then emerging new generation. Today their practice spans the globe, with projects in 54 countries on five continents. Arquitectonica has 800 architects, landscape architects, planners, interior designers and industrial designers, in ten studios around the world. Its work is widely recognized through publications and exhibits, and its roster of clients includes leaders of both the public and private sectors. For information about naming opportunities in the Murphy Design Studio Building, please contact Karina Alvarez at 305-284-5841. Photo by Cheryl Stieffel, Miami in Focus Rendering by Arquitectonica University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices