Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Core Awards » Mitchell Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Mitchell Scholarship The George J. Mitchell Scholarship Program, named to honor former US Senator George Mitchell's pivotal contribution to the Northern Ireland peace process, is designed to introduce and connect generations of future American leaders to the island of Ireland, while recognizing and fostering intellectual achievement, leadership, and a commitment to community and public service. Up to twelve Mitchell Scholars between the ages of 18 and 30 are chosen annually for one academic year of postgraduate study in any discipline offered by institutions of higher learning in Ireland and Northern Ireland. This award requires university endorsement. In order to apply, you must contact NCA by the Intent to Apply Deadline. Having trouble writing an essay on your leadership skills? Prestigious scholarships often ask for a leadership essay, but what does such an essay entail? NCA has recorded a webinar full of tips to help you craft a compelling leadership narrative for your application. Please watch our 30-minute Leadership Essay Webinar (be sure to view as a Slide Show for audio narration). Closed captions are available. Deadlines Campus Deadline: April 25, 2022 Application Opens: March 2022 National Deadline: September 30, 2022 @5PM EST Award Details right arrow down arrow Applicants are judged on three criteria: scholarship, leadership, and a sustained commitment to community and public service. The Mitchell Scholarship Program provides tuition, accommodation, and a stipend (currently $1250 USD/month) for living expenses and travel for up to 12 months of post-graduate academic study on the island. Most programs run for nine months. Up to three additional months of summer stipend will be provided if residence on the island is required by the program of study (for a maximum of 12 months). Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria Graduating seniors and recent alumni (must hold bachelor's degree by start of award) U.S. citizen At least 18 years old, but not yet 30, on September 27 of application year Please refer to the Mitchell website for a detailed list of the eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria Scholarship Leadership A sustained commitment to community and public service Please refer to the Mitchell website for a detailed description of the selection criteria. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information Transcripts Passport-style photo Personal statement University choice and field of study Letters of recommendation (4) How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the spring, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Mitchell Scholarship. This year, the Learning Series took place on February 22nd and 23rd via Zoom. Please email nca@uc.edu to request a recording of the session. Schedule an advising appointment with Dr. Jenny Hyest through My Bearcat Network. In advance of that appointment, please: Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Complete NCA Campus Endorsement Application by April 25, 2022 Launch your online application. (Application opens Spring 2022) Endorsed candidates submit revised application by National Deadline: September 30, 2022 @5PM EST. Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Please note that you are prohibited from receiving feedback on your Personal Statement. No one—NCA, family, friends, writing center—may comment on or edit your essay. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Mitchell website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Mitchell website takes precedence. UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies to this application process. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top