Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Paris Home Connect Chapters International Paris International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore The France Chapter of Boston College consists of over 190 alumni. Events typically take place within the city of Paris, and consist of social, networking, and service opportunities. The Chapter is currently looking for volunteers to help plan and coordinate future events. If you are interested in learning more, please contact the Chapters team at chapter@bc.edu. 191 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Paris Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Mykal Dortch '06 Lives in: Paris, France Major: Information Systems / Operations Occupation: Information Technology Favorite BC Memory: As a prospective student, the admissions rep walked me down to alumni stadium and let me walk out onto the field. There was something magical about the experience for me and I knew, standing near the endzone, that I would attend BC. Why I got involved: Having experienced the hurdles and challenges of being new to France, I wanted to help others transition gracefully here as well. It’s also nice having a small community of people around that get my random boston references and american pop culture. What are your local favorites in your city?: Did you know there are around 130 museums in Paris? I’ve been to many of them, but my favorite for its interactive exhibits, kid friendly atmosphere and historical context has to be the Museum of Monnaie de Paris (Paris Mint Museum). If you’re hungry, I recommend Le Petit Canard in the 9th district for it’s whimsical use of ducks in the decor, but also in nearly every dish. Chapter Highlight: We like to see ourselves as the torchbearer for BC in the city of light. Feel free to come out to any events, even if you’re visiting for just a short stay. We’d be glad to welcome you! Fun Fact: I landed my first job in France without speaking french. We just drew pictures and diagrams for 2+ hours. Afterwards, I became known as the “le dessinateur américain”, or “the American cartoonist” Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Katie Foley Contact: foleyby@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok