Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Environmental Health & Safety » Resources and Documents » FAQ's Set Navigation title in component Waste Management Training Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs Occupational Safety IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions 1. How do I get to the Office of Environmental Health and Safety? right arrow down arrow The office is located on the Uptown Campus East, in the University Hall Building, Suite 260, 51 Goodman Drive, as indicated in the map below. 2. I need a waste pickup – I have chemical and biological waste. What should I do? right arrow down arrow If you need a waste pickup, simply call 556-4968 or you can complete a form on-line. A pickup will be scheduled for you as soon as possible. You can also contact EH&S and someone from our staff will help you. For further information on waste pickup and schedules, see the EH&S Hazardous Waste Disposal program. 3. How do I get a copy of a SAFETY DATA SHEET? right arrow down arrow You can contact your Department’s Business Administrator. When you place an order for a chemical, the vendor sends a copy of the corresponding Safety Data Sheet (SDS) to EH&S that is forwarded to each Department's Business Administrator. If for some reason you do not receive the SDS, you can either look it up on the EH&S SDS Information area, or contact EH&S at 556-4968 and we will be happy to send it to you. 4. What do I do if I detect an unusual odor at work? right arrow down arrow If you detect an unusual odor, contact EH&S at 556-4968 and the on-call EH&S responder will be paged to contact you. The EH&S responder will come to your location to investigate the odor. It may be necessary to have a member of Facilities Management visit your location to perform an evaluation and inspection of the mechanical systems in the space. 5. How do I sign up for training courses i.e., - bloodborne pathogens, advanced laboratory safety, hazard communication, laser, etc. right arrow down arrow All you need to do is call EH&S at 556-4968 and you will be scheduled for the course or courses you require. Or you can register for courses online. For more detailed information on this topic, read about our Safety Training. 6. An inspector from an outside agency has arrived at my facility to do a site inspection. What should I do? right arrow down arrow You should first contact EH&S (556-4968) to notify the Office that an inspector is at your facility. EH&S is typically aware of scheduled inspections and will be present during the process. If however, an inspector arrives at your location unannounced contact EH&S immediately. Escort the inspector to an office or conference room and wait for an EH&S representative to arrive. 7. What is the Occupational/Work-Related Injury/Illness Return to Work Process at the University? right arrow down arrow Your first step is to receive prompt medical treatment for your injury either through UC Health, Employee Health & Wellness Clinic (call 585-6600) or the nearest medical facility. If you require follow-up medical treatment, you must coordinate this treatment with UC Benefits, call 556-6824 for further details. Report your incident using the University of Cincinnati Initial Report on Work-Related Injury or Illness. If you must file a Workers’ Compensation claim for your incident, visit the UC Human Resources Bearcats Landing site for more information. If you miss work other than the date of the incident, coordinate your return to work through UC Health. Call 585-6600 for details. To reduce the chance that a similar incident will occur, work with your supervisor to identify the cause of the problem and initiate appropriate correct actions. The University's work-related injury/illness policy is available for download. For more detailed information on this topic see: Work-Related Accidents, Injuries, and Illnesses. 8. I need supplies for my laboratory – such as lab signage, waste labels, red bags. How do I get these items? right arrow down arrow EH&S can provide these materials for you; simply contact EH&S and let us know what items you need. Some items that our office provides are: laboratory entrance room signage customized to your requirements, biological waste labels, biological waste bags, biohazard boxes, and barrels. 9. My laboratory is moving to a new location, or being remodeled. What procedures should be followed? right arrow down arrow There are many factors to be considered when vacating a laboratory for a move or remodel. In addition to seeing that the laboratory is clean, the following must be taken into consideration: verification that there is no chemical contamination in the laboratory, removal of excess chemicals – some of which may present special hazards. For more detailed information contact EHS at 556-4968 or see EH&S Advisory 7.1.1: Laboratory Departure Procedures. 10. I need to have Respirator Fit Testing and Training. What do I do? right arrow down arrow If you need to be Fit Tested and Trained for a respirator, call EH&S at 556-4968 to schedule an appointment. 11. What procedures do I follow when transporting hazardous materials? right arrow down arrow There are many considerations regarding transport of hazardous materials, for example, whether you are transporting within the UC campus, off campus, etc. For information specific to your transportation situation contact EH&S at 556-4968 before transporting any hazardous materials to a new location. 12. I would like to have an ergonomic evaluation on my workstation. What procedures do I follow? right arrow down arrow Call EH&S at 556-4968 and request an ergonomic evaluation and a member of the office will meet you to evaluate your workstation. For more information on ergonomics, try performing a self-assessment of your workstation. An office ergonomics checklist and laboratory ergonomics checklist are available for download. Office ergonomics training is also available to members of the University community. 13. A spill has occurred in my laboratory. What steps should be taken to clean up the spill? right arrow down arrow If the spill is large in nature and represents a serious hazard to the occupants of the laboratory, leave the laboratory immediately and contact Environmental Health and Safety at 556-4968. Spills that are smaller in nature (< 300cc) with moderate to low hazard and that can be cleaned up without the need for respiratory protection are to be handled by the laboratory occupants. All laboratories using chemicals or biological agents that may potentially be spilled are required to have materials designed to contain and neutralize acids and bases, absorbent materials that will contain spilled liquids, bleach or other US EPA registered disinfectants designed to disinfect biological spills, mercury spill kits, etc. In addition to these items, laboratories should also include with the spill materials appropriate personal protective equipment (nitrile gloves, safety glasses, lab coats, etc) to protect them while cleaning spilled materials. If you have questions regarding spill cleanup procedures or need waste disposal information for the spill cleanup materials please contact EH&S at 556-4968. 14. The granting agency is requesting a "Certificate of Environmental Compliance" signed by the Director of Environmental Health and Safety. What is the process for acquiring a "Certificate of Environmental Compliance" for the grant? right arrow down arrow Call EH&S to schedule a time for an audit of all applicable spaces, and develop a plan for correcting compliance issues noted during the audit. You also need to ensure all lab workers have participated in applicable health and safety training within the past twelve months. Workers who need training can use EH&S's computer-integrated training program to satisfy the requirements. 15. I'm a student and have received an injury. How do I report the incident? right arrow down arrow Complete a University of Cincinnati Initial Report on Work-Related Injury or Illness; indicate your job title as "student" in item 7. Keep a copy of the report, and forward the original to EH&S. 16. Do I need a spill kit if I work with hazardous chemicals? right arrow down arrow Yes, if you work with hazardous chemicals, you should have a spill kit available in the space(s) where hazardous chemicals are used or stored that will allow you to at least contain a spill, if you can do so safely. Spill kits are commercially available from most chemical manufacturers and distributors, or you can assemble your own. If you assemble your own spill kit, be sure to include gloves and safety goggles along with your acid and base neutralizers and absorbent materials, and place all materials into a labeled container. Make sure everyone in your lab knows the location of the spill kit and how to use it properly. 17. Do I need a spill kit if I work with biological or infectious materials? right arrow down arrow Yes, the Ohio EPA requires a biological spill kit to be available in all spaces where biological/infectious waste is generated or stored. For more information see the University Biosafety homepage. For a list of materials that are required in your spill kit, see Appendix E in Advisory 10.2: Management of Biological and Infectious Wastes. 18. Where are fire extinguishers kept and how do I use one? right arrow down arrow Type A, B, and C fire extinguishers are located at strategic points around all of our buildings. The different types of fire extinguishers are designed to be effective against different types of fires. For more detailed information about the use of fire extinguishers, contact Fire Prevention at 556-4992. 19. What should I do if I think I saw a bed bug? right arrow down arrow If you can do so easily, trap the bug and tape it to a piece of paper to aid in proper identification and remediation. If you saw the bug in a residence hall, notify the front desk. Your RC will provide directions for you to prepare for an exterminator inspection. If you are located in another building, contact Grounds and Moving at 556-4147. An exterminator will evaluate the area and determine the best approach for pest control. If you would like more information about bedbugs, visit Hamilton County Public Health - Fact Sheet: Bed Bugs, or Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Health Information About Bed Bugs. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top