UPENN About Who We Are What We Do Campuses News Room Diversity at Penn Vet Our History Events Maps & Directions Penn Vet COVID-19 Information Education VMD Admissions Incoming VMD Students Graduate Programs Dual Degree Programs Continuing Education Clinical Training Research Training Accreditation Research Areas of Research Centers, Laboratories & Initiatives Clinical Trials | VCIC Academic Departments Core Resources & Facilities News, Events & Conferences Giving Training Future Leaders Supporting Faculty Expertise Delivering Exceptional Care Meet the Team How to Support Penn Vet People Faculty Faculty/Clinician Search Alumni Find a VMD Contact Penn Vet Vet Hospitals New Bolton Center Care for horses & livestock/farm animals New Bolton COVID-19 Updates Emergencies Appointments Clinical Services Diagnostic Laboratories Facilities Get Directions News & Events Referring Veterinarians Ryan Veterinary Hospital Care for cats, dogs & other companion animals Ryan Hospital COVID19 Updates Emergencies Appointments Clinical Services Diagnostic Laboratories Facilities Get Directions About Ryan Hospital Referring Veterinarians Contact New Bolton Center Kennett Square, PA Emergencies & Appointments: 610-444-5800 Directions Ryan Hospital Philadelphia, PA Emergencies: 215-746-8911 Appointments: 215-746-8387 Directions facebook twitter instagramm flickr youtube Home Research Academic Departments Pathobiology SARS-CoV-2 is moving between humans and wildlife A disease in dogs opens new avenues for study Igor Brodsky, PhD, Named Chair of the Department of Pathobiology De'Broski Herbert named Penn Presidential Professor Boris Striepen Named Mark Whittier and Lila Griswold Allam Professor of Microbiology and Immunology A leaky blood-brain barrier and schizophrenia Blocking viruses’ exit strategy Sounding the Alarm When Parasites Invade Follow the Worm - the dual nature of a key immune regulator Towards a Treatment for Krabbe Disease Cytokine Storms Mysteries in the Gills of Rainbow Trout Towards a More Effective Immune Response Dr. Christopher A. Hunter to lead International Cytokine and Interferon Society Pathobiology Laboratories and Divisions Pathobiology Services Pathobiology Core Facilities and Resources Pathobiology Faculty Pathobiology Training and Education Pathobiology News and Events Pathobiology New: Tenure-Track Position in Pathobiology The Department of Pathobiology at the University of Pennsylvania, School of Veterinary Medicine is soliciting applications for an open rank TENURE-TRACK faculty position. We seek outstanding scientists who conduct research on viruses, bacteria, or parasites and/or the immune response to infection. Learn more about this position... The Department of Pathobiology is dedicated to teaching and research in pathology, infectious diseases and immunology, and laboratory animal medicine. Located on both the Philadelphia and New Bolton Center campuses, it has an outstanding reputation for fundamental research, and provides crucial clinical services for the School and the State. Furthermore, by offering the very best training for veterinary students, residents, graduate students and post-doctoral fellows, the Department is helping to mold the future leaders in veterinary medicine and in basic research. Pathobiology Chair: Igor Brodsky, AB, PhD Associate Professor of Pathobiology, Penn Vet Associate Professor of Microbiology, Perelman School of Medicine Our Mission To understand the nature of disease and its impact on humans and animals. Learn more about the Department of Pathobiology Core Facilities & Resources Learn about our research cores and resources... Services Our services include services at both campuses and lab animal medicine... Labs/Divisions We offer Lab Animal Medicine, Infectious disease and Immunology, and more... Training & Education We offer post-graduate positions, such as residencies... Faculty Meet our expert faculty in Pathobiology... Pathobiology News & Events Find out what's happening in our department... Resources Apply to Penn Vet Maps & Directions Contact Penn Vet Accreditation Penn Vet Library Staff Portal Emergency Information Student Portal Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr RSS Legal Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Copyright Info Privacy Disclaimer ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, School of Veterinary Medicine 3800 Spruce Street - Philadelphia, PA 19104