Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Menu University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact Baylor>Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information>University Updates>Update on federal vaccine mandate Update on federal vaccine mandate November 22, 2021 Faculty, Staff and Student Employees: Baylor University is aware that several states, including Texas, have mounted a legal challenge in an effort to halt President Joe Biden’s federal contractor and OSHA vaccine mandates. Like most other public and private universities across the state, Baylor continues to work internally to reconcile conflicting state and federal guidance regarding vaccine mandates and other COVID-19 precautions. As it currently stands, Baylor must comply with President Biden’s Executive Order (EO) 14042 requiring those organizations that receive federal contracts and their employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by Jan. 18, 2022. Depending on the vaccine that you choose, you may need to obtain the first vaccination dose by Dec. 7, 2021. While we continue our analysis into these conflicting directives, we ask any fully vaccinated employee who has not yet notified the University to please confirm your vaccination as soon as possible by filling out the brief form at www.baylor.edu/vaccine and uploading a photo of your completed vaccination card. If you received your vaccination from the Baylor Health Center, or you previously have submitted the form and completed card, you do not need to resubmit this information. As of this morning, approximately 91% of faculty and 86% of staff have confirmed they are vaccinated. It’s important to note that the link above provides access to file a request for a religious exemption or medical accommodation for the vaccine mandates from the Biden Administration should they survive legal challenges. If you are considering receiving a vaccination, the Baylor Health Center offers all three COVID-19 vaccines to employees and students, as well as spouses and dependents of employees and students, at its campus vaccine clinic at the North Village Community Center. You can find information about the Monday-Friday vaccine schedule and how to make an appointment at www.baylor.edu/vaccine. Baylor University Are you looking for more University Updates? All University UpdatesArchives University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact