Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Sponsored Programs Funding Funding External Funding Opportunities Print Sponsored Programs Checklist Sponsored Programs Checklist N.B. Proposals submitted using sponsor electronic systems should follow the guidelines established by the sponsor. The elements listed represent general proposal requirements. ___ Have you verified with OSP that you are using the correct and most current sponsor required proposal forms? ___ If the proposal is submitted in response to an RFP (Request for Proposal) or RFA (Request for Application), has a copy of the RFP or RFA been sent to OSP? ___ Does the sponsor have a limitation on the number of proposals permitted to be submitted by the University? If so, has this been coordinated with VPR and OSP? ___ If the sponsor is a foundation or a corporation, has the BC Corporation and Foundation Relations Office been notified? ___ Are all required elements of the proposal included? Cover Sheet Abstract Complete Narrative Budget C.V.s Statement of Current and Pending Support Sponsor Certifications Appendices Other Special Sponsor Requirements ___ Budget Does the budget accurately reflect the work proposed? Is it calculated correctly? Are the correct fringe benefit and F&A cost rates (aka, indirect cost rate) used? VPR approval is required for waived F&A. ___ Have all subcontractors sent budgets and completed Commitment Form signed by their institutional officials? Have these been forwarded to OSP? ___ Are sponsor page limitations observed? ___ Are sponsor type/font size limitations observed? ___ Has the routing of the electronic PTF been completed? ___ Have all needed University approvals been obtained? ___ Submission Obtain OSP signature on application forms and/or cover letter. If not submitted electronically, how many copies must be sent to the sponsor? Remember to provide OSP a copy of the final submission. Is there a deadline date? Is it a postmark or receipt date? Is the mailing address different from the express address? Federal and Non-Federal Sponsor Related Sites Federal and Non-Federal Sponsor Related Sites For the most up-to-date information on funding from many private and public sponsored research sources, please consult the extensive information available on the World Wide Web. FinAid offers free information about scholarships, loans, savings, and military aid. The Office for Sponsored Programs is pleased to provide the following list of useful addresses for faculty looking for information on possible funding sources. Private Foundations: American Council of Learned Societies AT&T Foundation Charles A. Dana Foundation Ford Foundation Global Fund for Women John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Robert Wood Johnson Foundation The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Rockefeller Foundation Sloan Foundation Spencer Foundation Federal Agencies: Air Force Office of Scientific Research Air Force Research Laboratory AFO FDP Agency-Specific Requirements Army Research Office ARO Funding Opportunities ARO FDP Agency-Specific Requirements Army Corps of Engineers Army Medical Research Programs Army Research Laboratory Army FAR Supplement Army FDP Agency-Specific Requirements Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) Department of Agriculture (USDA) Department of Commerce (including National Institute of Standards and Technology or NIST) National Institute of Standards and Technology National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA Grants Information NOAA Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research NOAA Office of Global Programs National Telecommunications & Information Administration NTIA Grants and Assistance Department of Defense Defense Acquisition Deskbook Defense Procurement Home Page Department of Education Funding Opportunities Guide to Department of Education Programs and Resources Grants Forecast Program Announcements Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE) Grant Application Forms Education General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) Department of Energy Office of Science Office of Procurement and Assistance Management Office of Fossil Energy National Energy Technology Laboratory Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Golden Field Office National Renewable Energy Laboratory DOE FAR (DEAR) Supplement DOE FDP Agency-Specific Requirements Department of Health and Human Services (including National Institutes of Health, Centers for Disease Control, etc.) Office of Research Integrity DHHS Research, Policy, and Administrative Information Office of Grants and Acquisition Management Administration for Children and Families Administration on Aging Agency for Health Care Policy and Research AHCPR Funding Opportunities Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Funding Opportunities Food and Drug Administration FDA Grants Health Resources and Services Administration HRSA Grants Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration SAMHSA Grants DHHS Forms Download HHS Grant Regulations - Title 45 CFR HHS Grants Administration Manual (GAM) HHS Grants Policy Directives (GPDs) Department of Justice DOJ Grant Information Office of Justice Programs DOJ Current Funding Opportunities Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention -- Grants and Funding Information National Institute of Justice Funding Opportunities Justice Grant Programs (from National Criminal Justice Reference Service) Department of Labor Grant and Contract Information Department of State Grant Program Information Application Forms International Information Programs Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs Programs Open Requests for Proposals Fulbright Program Department of Transportation Aquisition and Grants Management DOT Grant-Related Sites List University Transportation Centers (UTC) Program DOT Research and Special Programs Administration DOT Transportation Research DOT University Funding Opportunities Federal Aviation Administration – Office of Research Acquisitions Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management Transportation Research Board Transportation Acquisition Manual DOT Electronic Acquistion Reference Library DOT Grant-Related Regulations and Directives DOT Legislation, Regulation, Certification, and Policy Links Department of Transportation TAR Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) EPA Research Programs and Offices EPA Office of Research and Development (ORD) ORD Research Programs ORD Research Grant and Fellowship Opportunities EPA Grants Information Researchers and Scientists Information Research Grants and Fellowships National Center for Environmental Research and Quality Assurance STAR Grants Environmental Protection Agency (EPAAR) FDP Agency-Specific Requirements Institute of Museum and Library Services Grants and Awards Grant Application Forms Interior Department DOI Financial Assistance (Grants) DOI Policy and Regulations U.S. Geological Survey Contracts and Grants Information USGS Grants Information USGS Guide for the Submission of Unsolicited Proposals U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Division of Federal Aid Library of Congress National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) NASA Organizations Index NASA Grants Information (from Goddard Space Flight Center) Grant Forms NASA Acquisition Internet Service Forms from NAIS NASA Research Opportunities Online Office of Space Science Opportunities Online Office of Earth Science Research Opportunities Office of Biological and Physical Research (OBPR) Research Opportunities Guidance for the Preparation and Submission of Unsolicited Proposals Office of Space Sciences NASA Ames Research Center Grants Office FEDIX NASA NASA Grant and Cooperative Agreement Handbook NASA FAR Supplement NASA FDP Agency-Specific Requirements NASA 01/94 - NASA 07/00 National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) NEA Guidelines and Applications National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Grant Programs and Application Materials NEH Application Deadlines Information for Grant Recipients National Institutes of Health (NIH) NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices NIH Office of Extramural Research OER Grants Policy Information Listing of NIH Extramural Policy Notices Award Conditions and Information for NIH Grants OER Funding Opportunities Information NIH Guide to Grants and Contracts NIH Extramural Programs Funding Program Guidelines Schedule of Receipt Dates and Review and Award Cycles Answers to Frequently Asked Questions About NIH Grants Information for New Grantees NIH Research Training Opportunities Center for Scientific Review Research Portfolio Online Report Tools (RePORT) NIH Division of Research Contracts NIH E-Mail Directory NIH Forms Page NIH Grants Policy Statement - effective for budget periods beginning on or after December 1, 2003 NIH FDP Agency-Specific Requirements National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Science Foundation (NSF) Overview of NSF Programs NSF Grants & Awards NSF FastLane NSF Proposal Preparation Guide to Programs NSF Prospective New Awardee Guide NSF E-Bulletin NSF Deadline Dates List NSF Custom News Service NSF Division of Science and Resource Studies NSF Data on Science and Engineering NSF Grant Policy Manual Grant Proposal Guide FDP Agency-Specific Requirements NSF Fixed Amount Award Conditions Grant and Agreement Conditions NSF Contract Administration Policy Grants Administration FAQs NSF CFR References Office of Naval Research ONR University Business Affairs ONR Acquisition ONR Broad Agency Announcements ONR FDP Agency-Specific Requirements Naval Research Laboratory NRL Broad Agency Announcement Smithsonian Institution Smithsonian Office of Fellowships and Grants Opportunities for Research and Study Application Forms U.S. Agency for International Development USAID Business and Procurement USAID Office of Procurement Results Sourcebook U.S. Information Agency U.S. Institute of Peace USIP Grant Programs USIP Unsolicited Grants USIP Solicited Grants SIP Research Areas Additional Federal Information Federal Register Federal Information Exchange, Inc. (FEDIX) Evaluation Resources User-Friendly Handbook for Project Evaluation: Science, Mathematics, Engineering, Education and Technology from the NSF User-Friendly Handbook for Mixed Method Evaluations from the NSF Sabbatical Fellowships Sabbatical Fellowships American Philosophical Society (awards are made for support of the second half of an institution-funded half year sabbatical in the humanities and social sciences) History Fellowships from the Organization of American Historians. Smithsonian Senior Fellowships and Postdoctoral Fellowships. (Early contact with a potential advisor is strongly encouraged) AAAS Fellowships for Scientists and Engineers Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute Postdoctoral Fellowships Lincoln Institute of Land Policy for: taxation of land and buildings land use and regulation land values, property rights and ownership Latin America and the Caribbean Newberry Library Fellowships in the Humanities SSRC Abe Fellowship Program to encourage international multidisciplinary research on topics of pressing global concern. ACLS Frederick Burkhardt Residential Fellowships for Recently Tenured Scholars for long-term, unusually ambitious projects in the humanities and social sciences. Other Fellowships Other Fellowships U.S. Navy-Asee Summer Faculty Research Program and Sabbatical Leave Program. The U.S. Navy-ASEE Summer Faculty Research Program provides science and engineering faculty members from colleges and universities the opportunity to participate in research at Navy laboratories for a ten week period during the summer break. Ford Foundation Diversity Fellowships for Achieving Excellence in College and University Teaching. To increase the diversity of the nation’s college and university faculties by increasing their ethnic and racial diversity, to maximize the educational benefits of diversity, and to increase the number of professors who can and will use diversity as a resource for enriching the education of all students. Predoctoral fellowships support study toward a Ph.D. or Sc.D.; Dissertation fellowships offer support in the final year of writing the Ph.D. or Sc.D. thesis; Postdoctoral Fellowships offer one-year awards for Ph.D. recipients. Major disciplines eligible for support include the life sciences, physical sciences, mathematics, engineering sciences, behavioral and social sciences, education, and the humanities. Michigan Society of Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships. The Society invites applications from qualified candidates at the beginning of their academic careers, having received the Ph.D. or comparable professional or artistic degree between June 1, 2008 and September 1, 2011. National Humanities Center Fellowships. The National Humanities Center offers 35-40 residential fellowships for advanced study in all fields of the humanities. Applicants must hold doctorate or equivalent credentials and have a record of publication. The Center provides an environment for individual research and fosters the exchange of ideas among scholars. Both senior and younger scholars are eligible for fellowships, but the latter should be engaged in research well beyond the subject of their doctoral dissertations. Fellowships are for the academic year (September through May). Scholars from any nation may apply. Humanistically inclined individuals from the natural and social sciences, the arts, the professions, and public life may also apply. The Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study awards 10-15 faculty fellowships each year to scholars from across the disciplines whose work addresses its annual research theme. Fellows live and work at Notre Dame and typically receive half their salary per academic year (up to $75,000), subsidized housing, a research allowance, and a private office. The NDIAS research theme for 2022-2023 is The Public, and the deadline for applications for fellowships on this topic is September 27, 2021. Kellogg Institute Residential Fellowships at the University of Notre Dame. Visiting fellows work on individual or joint research projects related to the Institute's themes. Robert Bosch Foundation Fellowship Program enables outstanding young American professionals to acquire a high-level, in-depth understanding of the political, economic, and cultural environment of Germany and the EU. McKnight Scholar Awards to stimulate research in neuroscience especially as it pertains to memory and, ultimately, to a clearer understanding of diseases affecting memory. Grants (normally $5,000) for Study in Scandinavia from the American-Scandinavian Foundation (Grants are made in all fields). Graduate Fellowships Graduate Fellowships American Association of University Women (AAUW) Educational Foundation Fellowships and Grants Tel: 800-326-2289 Website: AAUW - Support for scholars pursuing academic research; public school teachers promoting girls’ achievement in math, science, and technology; and community activists helping to improve the lives of women and girls through education. Funding assists women at critical stages of their careers as well as those preparing for professions underrepresented by women and women of color. Special funding is available for a college/university scholar-in-residence to research issues of gender and equity. American Fellowships support women doctoral candidates completing dissertations and scholars seeking funds for postdoctoral research leave or for preparing completed research for publication. Applicants must be U.S citizens or permanent residents. One-year postdoctoral research leave fellowships, dissertation fellowships, and summer/short-term research publication grants are offered. Career Development Grants support women who hold a bachelor's degree and who are preparing to advance their careers, change careers, or re-enter the work force. Community Action Grants provide seed money to individual women, AAUW branches and AAUW state organizations, as well as local community-based nonprofit organizations for innovative programs or nondegree research projects that promote education and equity for women and girls. International Fellowships are awarded for full-time graduate or postgraduate study or research to women who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Supplemental grants support community-based projects in the fellow's home country. Selected Professions Fellowships are awarded to women who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents and who intend to pursue a full-time course of study during the fellowship year in designated degree programs where women's participation traditionally has been low. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) National Research Service Award (NRSA) Postdoctoral Fellowships (F32) Tel: 301-594-3421 Web Site: NIH - Fellowships support health services research by providing opportunities for one or more years of academic training and supervised experience in applying quantitative research methods to the systematic analysis and evaluation of health care services. With a mission to support and conduct research to improve the outcomes, quality, access to, and cost and utilization of health care services, the sponsor seeks to expand the number of researchers who conduct health services research in the following areas: health outcomes, at the clinical and system levels; quality measurement and improvement including the use of evidence-based practice information and tools; organization, financing, and delivery of health care and the characteristics of primary care practices with emphasis on health issues related to priority populations including minority populations, women, and children; health services research, especially cost-effectiveness analysis; and ethical issues across the spectrum of health care delivery. Applications may be for one, two, or three years of fellowship support. Association for Gerontology in Higher Education AARP-Andrus Foundation Graduate Scholarship and Fellowships in Gerontology Tel: 202-289-9806 Website: AGHE - The sponsor invites applications for three full-year, doctoral-level fellowships of $15,000 each, and the equivalent of five full-year, master's-level scholarships of $7,000 each from students who are committed to studying gerontology with the goals of working in aging-related careers. African Initiative Grants and Fellowship Program Tel: 734-764-5513 Website: African Initiative - The sponsor provides support for grants and fellowships in the area of African Studies. Eligible applicants are prospective and current University of Michigan graduate students. A total of approximately $100,000 will be available for the 2002-2003 academic year. American Educational Research Association Minority Fellowship Program Tel: 202-223-9485 Website: AERA - Doctoral fellowships for thesis research to enhance the competitiveness of outstanding minority scholars for academic appointments at major research universities. Fellowships provide mentoring and and guidance towards completion of doctoral studies. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or native residents of a possession of the United States who have advanced to candidacy and successfully defended their PhD/EdD dissertation research proposal. Applicants must work full time on their dissertation and course requirements. This program is targeted for members of groups historically underrepresented in higher education (e.g., African Americans, American Indians, Alaskan Natives (Eskimo or Aleut), Native Pacific Islanders, Filipino Americans, Mexican Americans, and Puerto Ricans). Fellows will receive an academic year stipend of $10,000, with renewal for a progress. Awards will not exceed two years. American Heart Association Predoctoral Fellowship Tel: 214-706-1457 Website: AHA - Support to help students initiate careers in cardiovascular or stroke research by providing research assistance and training for 1 or 2 years, with option to reapply for a third year. $19,000 per year stipend. American Institute of Architects/American Hospital Association (AIA/AHA) Graduate Fellowship in Health Facility Planning and Design Tel: 202-626-7366 Website: AIA - The sponsor supports study and research related to the field of health care architecture. American Institute of Pakistan Studies (AIPS) Postdoctoral and Predoctoral Fellowship Contact: Dr. Brian Spooner, President, Department of Anthropology, University of Pennsylvania Museum, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6398 Website: AIPS - The sponsor provides fellowships for graduate students who have yet to complete course work toward and Ph.D., and who demonstrate an interest in topics related to Pakistan studies. Support is also offered for candidates to conduct research on topics which contribute to scholarship in Pakistan Studies. Support includes a stipend and travel expenses. American Meteorological Society (AMS) Industry/Government Graduate Fellowship; Industry Minority Scholarships; Industry Undergraduate Scholarships; Undergraduate Scholarships ; Graduate Fellowship in the History of Science; Industry/Government Graduate Fellowships ; The Father James B. Macelwane Annual Awards in Meteorology Tel: 617-227-2426 ext. 246 or 235 Website: AMS - The sponsor provides support to prepare young scientists for careers in the meteorological, oceanic, and hydrologic fields. A stipend of $15,000 is provided for nine months. American Research Institute in Turkey Kress/ARIT Pre-Doctoral Fellowships and Research Fellowships in the History of Art and Archaeology Tel: 215- 898-3474 Website: ARIT - Support for doctoral research and other research in Turkey in art history and archaeology. American School of Classical Studies Fellowships Tel: 609-683-0800 Website: ASCA - Numerous fellowships for graduate students in various disciplines, including NEH, Fulbright, Mellon Research Fellowships, and fellowships in Environmental Studies, Faunal Studies, Geoarchaeology, and other subjects, are offered through the ASCSA. American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowships Tel: 202- 331-3516 Website: ASEE - Fellowships are awarded for study and research leading to doctoral degrees in mathematical, physical, biological, ocean and engineering sciences. Eligible applicants are U.S. citizens or nationals. The fellowship is for thirty-six months. Association for Women in Science Educational Foundation Graduate Fellowships Tel: 202-326-8940 Website: AWIS - The sponsor provides support for female students enrolled in a behavioral, life, physical, or social science or engineering program leading to a Ph.D. degree. Five to ten awards are available. Belgian American Education Foundation (BAEF) Graduate Fellowships for Study in Belgium Tel: 203-777-5765 Website: BAEF - The sponsor provides support for advanced study at one of the Belgian universities or other academic institutions of higher learning. Applicants must be U.S. citizens. The stipend is $17,000, including lodging and living expenses in Belgium, for a term of twelve months. Community Associations Institute Research Foundation (CAIRF) Byron Hanke Fellowship for Graduate Research on Community Associations Tel: 703- 548-8600 Contact: Stephanie Ayres. Fellowship of $2,000 to graduate students in any discipline (law, economics, sociology, urban planning)working on topics related to community associations, including condominiums, cooperatives, townhouse developments, planned unit developments and other developments where homeowners support an association with mandatory financial assessments, and are subject to use and aesthetic restrictions. Projects may focus on either applied or theoretical research and address management, institutions, organization and administration, public policy, architecture, as well as political, economic, social, and intellectual trends in community association housing. Application consists of a letter to the Chair of the Community Associations Institute Research Foundation. There is no deadline for applying for a fellowship. Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Fellowships Tel: 202-543-1771 Website: CHCI - Support for Latinos to gain hands-on experience in the public policy area of their choice at the national lelvel, including international affairs, economic development, public health administration, telecommunications policy, financial service, corporate public interest, education, housing, and local government. Crane-Rogers Foundation Institute of Current World Affairs Fellowships Tel: 603-643-5548 Website: ICWA - Interested parties should write to the Executive Director, Peter B. Martin, for introductory purposes. The sponsor provides talented individuals an opportunity to develop a deep understanding of an issue, country or region outside the United States. Fellowships are normally two years to women and men under thirty-six years. Fellowships for 2002-2003 are: John O. Crane Memorial Fellowship--provides support for study of East Europe and the Middle East. John Miller Musser Memorial Forest & Society Fellowships offer people with graduate degrees in forestry or forest-related specialties an opportunity to broaden their understanding of the relationship of forest-resource problems to humans, including policy-makers, environmentalists, peasants, scientists and forest-product industrialists. Target of Opportunity Fellowships Fellowships are offered for the study of issues or areas of the candidate's own choice, or for study in the following areas: Korea; Japan; East Germany; China; Cuba; Poland; The Seas; Burma; Russia; and/or Central Asia. Ford Foundation Predoctoral Fellowships For Minorities Tel: 202- 334-2872; 202-334-2860 Website. Predoctoral fellowships offer members of six minority groups underrepresented in the professoriate the opportunity to engage in graduate study in research-based Ph.D. or Sc.D. programs in selected academic disciplines. Fellowships provide an annual stipend of $16,000 for 3 years of support to be used within 5 years plus an institutional award to be accepted in lieu of tuition and fees of $7,500. Approximately 60 predoctoral fellowships will be awarded. Eligibility to apply is limited to: Citizens or nationals of the United States; Individuals enrolled in or planning to enroll in a research-based Ph.D. or Sc.D. program. In a designated field; Individuals who aspire to a teaching and research career at the college or university level; Persons who have not earned a doctoral degree at any time, in any field. Individuals enrolled in practice-oriented programs will not be supported. International Foundation for Ethical Research (IFER) Graduate Fellowships in Alternatives in Scientific Research Tel: 312-427-6025 Website: IFER - Fellowships for graduate students with programs of study likely to have an impact on development of scientifically valid alternatives to the use of animals in research, product testing, education, and/or increasing public awareness. $12,500 annually in stipendiary support and $2,500 for supplies per year, renewable up to three years. Open to students enrolled in Master's and Ph.D. programs in the sciences, humanities, psychology, and journalism. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Langley Aerospace Research Summer Scholars Program (LARSS) Tel: 757-864-5298 Web Site: LARSS - Support is provided for in-residence research opportunities to undergraduate juniors and seniors and first year graduate students studying aeronautical engineering or selected space disciplines of interest to the sponsor. Each student receives a stipend of $4,500. Approximately 125 students will be selected. Program duration is ten weeks during the summer months. Selected disciplines of interest to the sponsor include: aeronautical engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, materials science, computer science, atmospheric science, astrophysics, physics, chemistry, or other related fields. Marion and Jasper Whiting Foundation Fellowships Tel: 617-557-7411 Address: 50 Congress St., Boston, MA 02109 Support for college graduates who aspire to become teachers and college and university teachers who wish to pursue their studies abroad or at some location other than their usual place of teaching. Metropolitan Museum of Art Chester Dale Fellowships Tel: 212-570-3756 Website: MMA - The sponsor supports in-residence research related to the fine arts of the western world at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Eligible applicants are both graduate students and senior scholars, preferably American citizens under the age of forty. Fellowships range from three months to one year, with stipends ranging from $25,000 to $30,000 and an additional $3,000 for travel. National Center for Atmospheric Research Newkirk Graduate Research Fellowships Contact: cmw@ucar.edu or fax Dr. Philip Judge at (303) 497-1589 Web Site: NCAR - The sponsor provides research fellowships located at the High Altitude Observatory for graduate students enrolled in university studies leading to the Ph.D. degree in support of research with a scientist at HAO on a mutually agreeable theoretical or experimental project related to current HAO research pursuits. Consideration of Graduate Research Fellowships will be performed continuously throughout the year. National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowships Tel: 866- 353-0905 Website: NSF - The sponsor aims to ensure the vitality of the human resource base of science, mathematics, and engineering in the United States and to reinforce its diversity by offering approximately nine hundred graduate fellowships each year, including awards for women in engineering and computer and information science. Fellowships are intended for students in the early stages of their graduate study. Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education Fellowships, Internships, and Research Opportunities Website: ORAU Among many programs offered is the Student Internship Program at the U.S. Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine. Tel: 410-436-7257 Website. Support for students to participate in clinical research in areas such as occupational and environmental health engineering, entomology, ionizing and nonionizing radiation, health promotion, industrial hygiene and worksite hazards, ergonomics, environmental sanitation and hygiene, laboratory science, chemistry, biology, toxicology, health physics, environmental health risk assessment and risk communication, and related projects. Appointments are carried out at U.S. Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine (Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md.) and other approved locations. Support for graduate and undergraduate students to participate in clinical research. Stipends are based on research area(s) and academic classification. Awards have a duration of three months to one year and are renewable; full-time or part-time appointments are available. Open Society Institute (Soros) Criminal Justice Initiative: Soros Justice Postgraduate Fellowships Tel: 212-548-0170 Website: Open Society Institute Postgraduate Fellowships Postgraduate fellowships fund outstanding individuals in law, public health, criminal justice, public policy, and other disciplines, in order to initiate innovative projects that will have a measureable impact on issues underlying CJI's work. Eight to ten awards will be made with a yearly stipend of $37,500, $2,500 for an annual professional development budget, $2,500 for an annual health insurance budget, $1,200 for relocation costs, and $6,000 per year to help with payments for outstanding graduate school educational loan debt. Project periods are for two years. Spencer Foundation Dissertation Fellowship Program Tel: 312-337-7000 Website: Spencer Foundation Dissertation Fellowship Program The Dissertation Fellowship Program seeks to encourage a new generation of scholars from a wide range of disciplines and professional fields to undertake research relevant to the improvement of education. These $25,000 fellowships support individuals whose dissertations show potential for bringing fresh and constructive perspectives to the history, theory, or practice of formal or informal education anywhere in the world. This highly competitive program aims to identify the most talented researchers conducting dissertation research related to education. Like all Spencer Foundation programs, the Dissertation Fellowship program receives many more applications than it can fund. This year, up to 600 applications are anticipated and about 20 fellowships will be awarded. United Negro College Fund (UNCF)•MERCK Postdoctoral Science Research Fellowships E-mail: uncfmerck@uncf.org Website: UNCF Merck Awards up to $85,000. At least 10 postdoctoral fellowships will be awarded in 2010. Each fellowship provides a maximum of $85,000, which includes a Stipend of up to $70,000 and a Research Grant of up to $15,000 to the hosting department. The stipend is intended to provide 12-24 months of fellowship tenure. A maximum of $50,000 of stipend may be received in any 12 month period. The Research Grant is intended to support the research needs of the Fellow. U.S. Department of Commerce (NOAA) Dean John A. Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship Tel: 301- 713-2431 ext. 124 Website: NOAA Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship Deadlines vary from program to program, but applications are generally due early to mid-April. Candidates should contact their state's Sea Grant program for specific deadlines. U.S. Department of Education, Science & Training International Postgraduate Research Scholarships (IPRS) Website: AU DOE - About 300 new awards will be made each year. Awards cover tution, fees, and health insurance premiums for two years for a master's research degree and three years for a Ph.D. degree, to students for research at participating Australian higher education institutions in areas of research specialisation, offering opportunities to obtain a postgraduate qualification and experience with leading Australian researchers. The closing date for applications will be set by individual institutions. U.S. Office of Personnel Management Presidential Management Intern Program Tel: 215-861-3027 Website: OPM - Master's or doctoral level students completing degree requirements are eligible for nomination by their university to participate. PMIs receive an initial 2-year excepted service appointment (GS-9 level: $34,451-$44,783 per year). After the first year, PMIs are eligible for promotion. University of Cambridge-Corpus Christi College Visiting Fellows Tel: 01223 338000 Website: Corpus Visiting Fellows Corpus Christi College has an annual programme under which scholars, either from Great Britain or from overseas, who may wish to spend the year (or part of it, but not less than one term) in Cambridge are welcomed as Visiting Fellows to temporary membership of this College. These Fellowships are non-stipendiary and ideally suited to faculty members on sabbatical leave from their permanent positions. Visiting Fellows are not permitted to register for degree courses. The College will not normally consider candidates under the age of 35, or over the age of 65. Limited assistance towards the cost of accommodation may be available from the Goodhart Fund for scholars in legal studies from developing countries. Whitaker Foundation Graduate Fellowships in Biomedical Engineering Tel: 212-984-5445 Website: Whitaker Foundation Support is provided to students to develop the skills required for a career in biomedical engineering. Winterthur Program in Early American Culture Tel: 302-831-2678 Graduate fellowships are provided to study American material life with emphasis on decorative arts and household furnishings. The fellowships are for two years and cover all tuition costs and provide and annual stipend of approximately $125000. The curriculum involves coursework at both the University of Delaware and the Winterthur Museum. Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) Summer Study in Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Tel: 508- 289-2950 Website: WHOI GFD Fellowship Program Graduate students and researchers from a variety of fields who share a common interest in the nonlinear dynamics of rotating, stratified fluids share an intense ten-week research experience, and vigorous discussions of concepts that span different disciplines. Fellows pursue a research project under the supervision of the staff and present a lecture and a written report for a proceedings volume. Fellows accepted to participate in the GFD Program will receive a stipend $5,200 and an allowance for travel expenses within the United States. Fellows are expected to be in residence for the full 10 weeks of the program. Dissertation Support Dissertation Support Miscellaneous: American Association of University Women ($15,000 for completion of a dissertation in any discipline except engineering) Ford Foundation Dissertation Fellowships Social Science Research Council Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation Fellowships at The Huntington Library, Art Collections, & Botanical Gardens State Farm Dissertation Awards in Insurance or Risk Management or Business Doctoral Dissertation Fellowships in Jewish Studies from the National Foundation for Jewish Culture Postdoctoral Fellowships at Smithsonian Institution Udall Dissertation Fellowships in environmental public policy and conflict resolution Hartford Doctoral Fellows Program in Geriatric Social Work Lincoln Institute of Land Policy for: taxation of land and buildings land use and regulation land values, property rights and ownership Latin America and the Caribbean VA Research Training Program, Bedford, MA. Doctoral Dissertation Research Support in Health Services Research Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research By Deadline Date: **Please note that many deadlines are revolving and will be renewed for future years** No Deadlines Commonwealth Fund Commonwealth Fund Dissertation Award Telephone: 212-606-3845 Email: info@cmwf.org SYNOPSIS: The sponsor seeks to support dissertation research for candidates in pursuit of their doctorate in the health policy and management field. Graduate students must have passed all graduate examinations and be working solely on their dissertation. Topics that will be considered are health care coverage, access, and quality. Students must attend school in the NYC area and be nominated by the Dean of the school. No Deadlines National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - East Asia and Pacific Program (EAP) Telephone: 703-292-8704 Fax: 703-292-9175 Email:eapinfo@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding to U.S. researchers for scientific, engineering and educational cooperation with institutions and researchers in the region (Australia, Brunei, Cambodia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Western Pacific Islands). Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at US institutions. No Deadlines National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - Central and Eastern Europe Program (CEE) Telephone: 703-292-8703 Fax: 703-292-9175 Email:ceeinfo@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding for overseas doctoral dissertation research at sites in Central and Eastern Europe and the Newly Independent States. Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at US institutions. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents. No Deadlines National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - Western Europe Program (WE) Telephone: 703-292-8702 Fax: 703-292-9177 Email:weinfo@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding for overseas doctoral dissertation research at sites in Central and Eastern Europe and the Newly Independent States. Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at US institutions. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents. No Deadlines National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - The Africa, Near East, and South Asia (ANESA) Program Telephone: 703-292-8707 Fax: 703-292-9176 Email:anesainfo@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding for doctoral dissertation research in Africa, the Near Eastern countries including Turkey, and the countries of South Asia, primarily India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at US institutions. No Deadlines National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - Americas Program Telephone: 703-292-8706 Fax: 703-292-9175 Email:amerinfo@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding for doctoral dissertation research at overseas sites in Canada, Mexico, and Central and South America. Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at US institutions. September 1 annually Social Science Research Council SSRC--Abe: Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 212-377-2700 Fax: 212 377-2727 Email: abe@ssrc.org SYNOPSIS: The Abe Fellowship is designed to encourage international multidisciplinary research on topics of pressing global concern. The program seeks to foster the development of a new generation of researchers who are interested in policy-relevant topics of long-range importance and who are willing to become key members of a bilateral and global research network built around such topics. The program provides Abe Fellows with a minimum of 3 and maximum of 12 months of full-time support over a 24 month period. Fellowship tenure may begin between April 1 and December 31 of a given year. Fellowship tenure need not be continuous, but must be concluded within 24 months of initial activation of the Fellowship. No Deadlines Social Science Research Council SSRC--Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies: Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: +49 30 838 56671 Fax: +49 30 838 56672 Email: bprogram@zedat.fu-berlin.de SYNOPSIS: The Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies, established in 1986 at the Freie Universität Berlin and in the United States by the Social Science Research Council (SSRC), promotes a new generation of young American scholars with a specialized knowledge of modern and contemporary German and European affairs. Fellowships are awarded for doctoral dissertation field research as well as postdoctoral research leading to the completion of a monograph. Fellows are selected by an international, interdisciplinary committee of scholars. The fellowship includes a monthly stipend, round-trip airfare for the fellow (and spouse, where applicable), and funds for research-related intra-European travel. No Deadlines Social Science Research Council SSRC--Eurasia: Dissertation Fellowships Email: eurasia@ssrc.org SYNOPSIS: A fellowship program for research on the Russian Empire, the Soviet Union and the New Independent States. Research related to the non-Russian states, regions, and peoples is particularly encouraged. November 6 Social Science Research Council SSRC--International Dissertation Research Fellowships: Dissertation Fellowships Email: idrf@ssrc.org SYNOPSIS: International Dissertation Research Fellowship (IDRF) program supports distinguished graduate students in the humanities and social sciences conducting dissertation research outside the United States. Fellowships will provide support for nine to twelve months of dissertation research. Individual awards will be approximately $20,000. No awards will be made for proposals requiring less than nine months of on-site research. December 1 Social Science Research Council SSRC--JSPS Fellowship Program: Dissertation Fellowships Email: japan@ssrc.org SYNOPSIS: The JSPS Fellowship Programs for US researchers provide promising and highly qualified recent PhDs (and ABDs—please see eligibility) with opportunities to conduct research in Japan. JSPS guidelines target the applicant who wishes to conduct cooperative research under the leadership of a host researcher, thereby advancing the Fellow's own research and at the same time stimulating Japanese academic circles through close collaboration with young Japanese researchers. November 1 The Getty Grant Program The Getty Grant Program--Grants for Pre- and Postdoctoral Fellowships Telephone: 310-440-7374 Fax: 310-440-7703 Email:researchgrants@getty.edu SYNOPSIS: Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellowships provide support for emerging scholars to complete work on projects related to the Getty Research Institute's annual theme. Recipients are in residence at the Getty Research Institute, where they pursue research to complete their dissertations or to expand them for publication. Applications are welcome from scholars of all nationalities who are working in the arts, humanities, or social sciences. Predoctoral fellows are in residence for the entire academic year (from September to June), and receive a stipend of $25,000. Postdoctoral fellows are also in residence for the academic year and receive a stipend of $30,000. Both fellowships also provide a workspace at the Getty Research Institute or the Getty Villa, an apartment in the Getty scholar housing complex, and airfare to and from Los Angeles. Department of Housing & Urban Development HUD--Doctoral Dissertation Research Grant Program Telephone: 800-245-2691 Fax: 301-519-5767 E-mail: oup@oup.org SYNOPSIS: The Doctoral Dissertation Research Grant Program was created to support applicants researching a wide range of issues. HUD welcomes applications in any academic discipline that can provide policy-relevant insight on research issues encompassed in HUD's mission and program commitments. Up to sixteen dissertation grants will be made in the amount of $25,000 each. March 1 Institute of Turkish Studies, Inc. Institute of Turkish Studies Dissertation Writing Grants Telephone: 202-687-0295 Fax: 202- 687-3780 Email:institute_turkishstudies@yahoo.com SYNOPSIS: The sponsor offers dissertation writing grants in the field of Turkish studies to Ph.D. candidates in the U.S. Candidates must have completed the research stage of their dissertations and must have certified that they will not be involved in teaching beyond the half time level. Awards will range from $5,000 to $10,000. Funds cannot be used for dissertation research. March 15 Beta Phi Mu Beta Phi Mu Doctoral Dissertation Scholarship Telephone: 850-644-3907 Fax: 850-644-9763 Email:Beta_Phi_Mu@lis.fsu.edu SYNOPSIS: One award is offered for continuing education in the applicant's pursuit of his/her Ph.D., in the field of Library and Information Science. One $1,000 scholarship is available. American Psychological Association APA--Jeffery S. Tanaka,PhD, Memorial Dissertation Award in Psychology Telephone: 202-336-6050 Email:pubinterest@apa.org SYNOPSIS: The Committee on Ethnic Minority Affairs (CEMA) is sponsoring an award for the most outstanding dissertation in psychology which addresses concerns relevant to populations of color. An award of a $500 cash prize, a $300 travel award, and an invitation to the APA Annual Convention is available. Society for the Psychological Study of Soc. Issues SPSSI Social Issues Dissertation Award Telephone: 313-662-9130 Email:spssi@umich.edu SYNOPSIS: A first prize of $1000 and a second prize of $500 will be awarded to the dissertations that best demonstrate scientific excellence and potential application to social problems, accepted between March 1 and March 1 is eligible. Educational Testing Service ETS--TOEFL Doctoral Dissertation Research Award Telephone: 609-921-9000 Email:toefl@ets.org SYNOPSIS: Support is provided for doctoral dissertation research that makes a significant and original contribution to knowledge about and/or the use and development of second/foreign language tests and testing. An annual award of $2,500 will be made. German Historical Institute AICGS/GHI Flwshps. in Postwar German Hist.--Dissertation Scholarships Telephone: 202-387-3355 Email:mauch@idt.net SYNOPSIS: Scholarships are offered to German and American doctoral students who need to us source materials located in the U.S. for their dissertation research. American students applying for these scholarships should be working on topics of German history for which they need to evaluate source materials located in the U.S. National Tax Association-Tax Institute of America National Tax Assn.-Tax Inst. of America Doctoral Dissertation Award Telephone: 202-737-3325 Email: natltax@aol.com Web Site: NTA SYNOPSIS: Support of $2,000 is provided for an outstanding dissertation on any topic in the area of government finance. Two honorable mentions of $1,000 each are also provided. Eligible applicants graduate students at accredited U.S. and Canadian Institutions and individuals who will receive their doctoral degree or its equivalent after July 1, 2009 and before June 2010. National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - Western Europe (96-14) Telephone: 703-306-1702 Email:intpubs@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding for doctoral dissertation research at overseas sites in the region of Western Europe, including Iceland. Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at U.S. institutions. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Upjohn (W.E.) Inst. for Employment Res. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research--Dissertation Award Telephone: 616-343-5541 Email:award@we.upjohninst.org SYNOPSIS: A first prize of $2,000 is offered for the best Ph.D. dissertation on employment-related issues. Up to two honorable mention awards of $750 may also be given. APICS Educational and Research Foundation, Inc. APICS George & Marion Plossl Doctoral Dissertation Research Flwshp. Telephone: 800-444-2742 Email:foundation@apics-hq.org SYNOPSIS: One award of $2,500 recognizes the best doctoral dissertation on important integrated resources management subject. Subjects eligible for competition are Customers and Products; Logistics; Manufacturing Processes; Support Functions; or Integrated Enterprise Management. Dissertations must be approved by the primary thesis advisor, and must not be more than "50%" completed. National Science Foundation SBE--INT--Dissertation Enhanc. - Africa, Near East, & So.Asia (96-14) Telephone: 703-306-1707 Email:intpubs@nsf.gov SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides funding for doctoral dissertation research at overseas sites in the region of Africa, the Near East, and South Asia. Eligible applicants are graduate students in the sciences who are enrolled at U.S. institutions. Association for Library & Information Science Ed. ALISE Doctoral Students' Dissertation Competition Telephone: 703-243-8040 Email:sroger7@ibm.net SYNOPSIS: Awards are given for dissertation research on issues in library and information science. Applicants must be doctoral students who have recently graduated or are about to complete their dissertations. Awards provide up to $500 to defray travel expenses to the sponsor's annual meeting where the recipient will present a summary of the research. Conference fees and membership in ALISE will also be paid. American Lung Association ALA--Lung Health Research Dissertation Grant Telephone: 212-315-8793 SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides fellowship support for doctoral research training to individuals who will conduct dissertation research on issues relevant to people with lung disease. Nurses pursuing a doctoral degree in any field may also apply. Awards may be for up to $21,000 per year for up to two years and may cover stipend and research support, but generally not equipment. International Reading Association IRA--Outstanding Dissertation of the Year Award Telephone: 302-731-1600 x226 Email: research@reading.org SYNOPSIS: $1,000 is provided to recognize outstanding doctoral students who have focused their research in the reading/literacy field or who have conducted related research having implications in reading. Dissertations must have been completed between September and August. Applicants must be members of the International Reading Association. Rockefeller Foundation Rockefeller Fndn.--Sub-Saharan Africa Dissertation Internship Awards Telephone: 212-869-8500 Web Site:Rockefeller Foundation SYNOPSIS: Support is provided to graduate students who are citizens of sub- Saharan Africa studying in the U.S. or Canada, to return to Africa to conduct doctoral research. Priority is given to research topics in the areas of agriculture, environment, health, life sciences, population, and schooling. Awards are up to $20,000 for projects of at least twelve months in duration. Social Science Research Council SSRC--Japan: Japan Studies Dissertation Workshop Telephone: 212-377-2700 SYNOPSIS: A dissertation workshop is provided to create a sustained network of advanced graduate students and faculty by providing critical feedback prior to and following dissertation fieldwork. Eligible applicants are full-time advanced graduate students, regardless of citizenship, who are enrolled at U.S. institutions. In most cases, travel, lodging, and meals will be fully covered. American Antiquarian Society AAS--Mellon Post-Dissertation Fellowship Telephone: 508-755-5221 Email:cfs@mwa.org Web Site:AAS SYNOPSIS: Fellowships in any topic relevant to the sponsor ís library collections and programmatic scope of American history and culture through 1876 are provided to extend research and/or revise the dissertation for publication. Scholars who are no more than three years beyond receipt of the doctorate are eligible to apply. The fellowship is $50,400. Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for Intl. Schol. Exch. CCK Foundation--Fellowships for Post-Doctoral Dissertations Telephone: 703-903-7460 Email:cckfnao@aol.com SYNOPSIS: Fellowships provide support of up to $15,000 to doctoral candidates for the completion of their dissertations. The sponsor supports Chinese studies in the humanities and social sciences. Health Care Financing Administration HCFA--Dissertation Fellowship Grants Telephone: 410-786-6644 Email:chackerman@hcfa.gov SYNOPSIS: Support is provided to students enrolled in an accredited doctoral degree program in social, management, or health sciences to stimulate the involvement of health services researchers in the study of health care financing and delivery issues. The budget of an application must not exceed $21,600 in direct and indirect costs for the entire 12-month project period. Spencer Foundation Spencer Foundation Dissertation Fellowship Program Telephone: 312-337-7000 Email:fellows@spencer.org SYNOPSIS: Approximately thirty fellowships of $20,000 each are awarded to support the final analysis of the research topic and the writing of the doctoral dissertation on a topic related to education. Eligible applicants must be doctoral program candidates at a graduate school in the U.S.; there are no citizenship restrictions. Social Science Research Council SSRC--South Asia: Dissertation Fellowships--Bangladesh Telephone: 212-377-2700 SYNOPSIS: Fellowships are provided for nine to fifteen months of doctoral dissertation research in Bangladesh in the social sciences and humanities. Applicants must expect to complete all requirements for the Ph.D. except the dissertation by the Spring of 1998. Full-time students, regardless of citizenship, who are enrolled in doctoral programs in North America are eligible. Social Science Research Council SSRC--South Asia: Dissertation Flwshps.--Bangladesh/Nepal/Pakistan Telephone: 212-377-2700 SYNOPSIS: Fellowships are available in Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka for doctoral dissertation research in the social sciences and humanities, including fields such as law, architecture, and urban planning. Eligible applicants are full-time students who are U.S. citizens and are enrolled in doctoral programs in the United States. The total period of support normally cannot exceed twelve months. American Council of Learned Societies ACLS--Dissertation Fellowships in East European Studies Telephone: 212-697-1505 Email:grants@acls.org SYNOPSIS: Support for doctoral candidates writing or researching dissertations in the social sciences and humanities relating to Albania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the successor states of Yugoslavia. Awards are up to $15,000 for one year plus expenses. Applicant must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Department of Education OPE--Fulbright-Hays--Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad Program Telephone: 202-401-9774 SYNOPSIS: An estimated eighty-seven awards, ranging from $12,000 to $60,000 each are awarded to institutions of higher education to enable graduate students to engage in full-time dissertation research abroad in modern languages and area studies. Projects must focus on Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, East Asia, Eurasia, the Near East, South Asia, Southeast Asia and the Pacific, and the Western Hemisphere (Canada, the Caribbean, Central and South America, and Mexico). Wilson (Woodrow) National Fellowship Foundation Woodrow Wilson Johnson & Johnson Dissertation Grants in Women's Hlth. Telephone: 609-452-7007 Email:sheila@woodrow.org SYNOPSIS: Awards of $2,000 are provided to encourage original and significant research on issues related to women's health. This grant is interested in the implications of research for the understanding of women's lives and its significance for public policy or treatment. Applicants are students in doctoral programs who have completed all predissertation requirements in any field of study at graduate schools in the U.S. National Research Council NRC--Ford Fndn. Predoctoral/Dissertation Fellowships for Minorities Telephone: 202-334-2872 Email:infofell@nas.edu SYNOPSIS: Predoctoral and dissertation fellowships are provided to minorities beginning study toward the Ph.D. or Sc.D. degrees in the behavioral and social sciences, humanities, engineering, mathematics, chemistry, physics and astronomy, earth and computer sciences, and life sciences. Predoctoral awards include a stipend of $14,000 per year and dissertation awards include a stipend of $21,500. Agency for Health Care Policy and Research AHCPR--Health Services Dissertation Research Grants Telephone: 301-656-3100 Email:md1@equals3.com SYNOPSIS: Support of up to $30,000 is provided for health services dissertation research, which supports research undertaken as part of an academic program to qualify for a doctorate. Eligible applicants are doctoral students. Grants are awarded for a period of 12 months or less, but may be awarded for up to 17 months. American Association of University Women Ed. Fndn. AAUW American Fellowships--Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 319-337-1716 x98 SYNOPSIS: Fellowships of $15,000 are provided for women for the final year of completion of their dissertation writing. Eligible applicants are women who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents, who will have completed all course work, passed all preliminary exams for the doctorate, and have their dissertation research proposal approved by November 15, 1998. Applicants in engineering are not eligible. American Council of Learned Societies ACLS--Henry Luce Fndn./ACLS Dissertation Fellowship in American Art Telephone: 212-697-1505 Email:grants@acls.org SYNOPSIS: Support is provided to assist Ph.D candidates in a department of Art History whose dissertation focuses on the history of the visual arts of the United States during any stage of the dissertation research and writing. The award provides $18,500 for a period of one year, beginning the summer prior to the academic year of study. United States Institute of Peace USIP--Jennings Randolph Pgm. for Intl. Peace: Dissertation Flwshp. Telephone: 202-429-3886 Email:jrprogram@usip.org SYNOPSIS: Peace Scholar awards support the research and writing of doctoral dissertations addressing the sources and nature of international conflict and strategies to prevent or end conflict and to sustain peace. Stipends are $20,000 for ten months. Social Science Research Council SSRC--Intl. Dissertation Field Research Fellowship Program (IDRF) Telephone: 212-377-2700 Email:idrf@ssrc.org SYNOPSIS: The sponsor supports dissertation research in all areas and regions in the world, on issues that transcend the graduate students' area specializations of cultures, languages, economics, politics, and historical experiences. Fellowships provide up to $15,000 for nine to twelve months of study outside the U.S. National Science Foundation Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grants in the Directorate for Biological Sciences (DDIG) Telephone: 703-306-1400 SYNOPSIS: The National Science Foundation awards Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grants in selected areas of the biological sciences. These grants provide partial support of doctoral dissertation research to improve the overall quality of research. Allowed are costs for doctoral candidates to participate in scientific meetings, to conduct research in specialized facilities or field settings, and to expand an existing body of dissertation research. American Library Association ALA--Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship Telephone: 800-545-2433 x2516 Email:jbriody@ala.org SYNOPSIS: $1,500 is provided to assist doctoral students in the field of academic librarianship with their dissertation research. Applicants must have completed all coursework and have had their dissertation proposals accepted by their institution. American Occupational Therapy Foundation AOTF--Dissertation Research Award for Occupational Therapists Telephone: 301-652-6611 x2554 SYNOPSIS: A $15,000 research award is available to registered occupational therapists and members of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA), for support of academic research in the field of occupational therapy and the science of occupation. Social Science Research Council SSRC--Southeast Asia Program: Vietnam Dissertation Field Res. Flwshp. Telephone: 212-377-2700 Email:rosenberg@ssrc.org SYNOPSIS: Fellowships of up to $15,000 a year are available to support research in Vietnam for periods between 12-24 months. Eligible applicants are graduate students enrolled full-time in PhD programs in any of the social sciences or humanities at accredited universities in the US or Canada. There are no citizenship restrictions. Wilson (Woodrow) National Fellowship Foundation Woodrow Wilson Charlotte Newcombe Doctoral Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 609-452-7007 Email:sheila@woodrow.org SYNOPSIS: The sponsor offers approximately thirty-five fellowships of $15,000 each for completion of research and writing of dissertations pertaining to issues of ethical or religious values in all fields of study and concerned with continuing problems and questions of human life. Eligible applicants are candidates for Ph.D. or Th.D. degrees enrolled in U.S. institutions. Social Science Research Council SSRC--Sexuality Research Program: Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 212-377-2700 SYNOPSIS: Dissertation fellowships are provided for social and behavioral research on sexuality conducted in the United States. Students should have completed all requirements for the Ph.D. except the dissertation and be matriculating in a full-time graduate program leading to the Ph.D. in social or behavioral science. Fellowships will provide $28,000 for twelve continuous months. National multiple Sclerosis Society NMSS--Dissertation Flwshps. for MS Health Care Delivery & Policy Res. Telephone: 212-986-3240 Email:nat@nmss.org SYNOPSIS: One- and two-year doctoral dissertation fellowships of up to $15,000 per year support health services, psychosocial, or health policy research related to multiple sclerosis. Awards provide up to $15,000 per year, of which up to $10,000 is a student stipend and up to $5,000 is for institutional support. Applicants need not be U.S. citizens. National Foundation for Jewish Culture NFJC--Doctoral Dissertation Fellowships in Jewish Studies Telephone: 212-629-0500 x216 Email:NFJC@jewishculture.org SYNOPSIS: The sponsor awards approximately seven one-year fellowships to allow graduate students to complete the writing phases of their doctoral dissertations in Jewish studies and related fields. Eligible applicants are citizens or permanent residents of the U.S. who have completed all requirements for the doctoral degree except the dissertation. Awards typically range from $7,000 to $9,000. Department of the Army U.S. Army Center of Military History Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 202-761-5402 SYNOPSIS: Support is provided to students who have completed all requirements for the Ph.D. degree except the dissertation to conduct research on the history of war on land. The one-year award provides a $9,000 stipend. Guggenheim (Harry Frank) Foundation Guggenheim Fndn.--Dissertation Fellowship Telephone: 212-644-4907 SYNOPSIS: Support is provided for individuals to complete the writing of their doctoral dissertations in any of the natural and social sciences and the humanities that will increase understanding of the causes, manifestations, and control of violence, aggression, and dominance. Fellowships are $10,000 each. Truman (Harry S.) Library Institute Truman Library Institute--Dissertation Year Fellowships Telephone: 816-833-0425 x234 Email:library@truman.nara.gov SYNOPSIS: Fellowships are offered to encourage historical scholarship in the Truman era. Eligible applicants are graduate students who have completed their dissertation research and are ready to begin writing. The fellowship provides a stipend of $16,000 for one year. Fellows are not required to come to Truman Library, but are expected to furnish the Library with a copy of the dissertation. Social Science Research Council SSRC--Eurasia Program: Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 212-377-2700 SYNOPSIS: Awards of up to $15,000 are intended to provide support to students who have completed research for their doctoral dissertations. Eligible applicants are U.S. students specializing in any discipline of the social sciences and humanities in the study of the Soviet Union and its successor states. Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for Intl. Schol. Exch. CCK Foundation Dissertation Fellowships for R.O.C. Students Abroad Telephone: 703-903-7460 Email:cckfnao@aol.com SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides grants for Republic of China students abroad to help finance the completion of dissertations. Only students who have graduated from accredited universities or colleges in the Republic of China and who do not have foreign permanent residence status or citizenship are eligible to apply. Awards provide up to $15,000. Resources for the Future, Inc. Resources for the Future--Joseph L. Fisher Dissertation Awards Telephone: 202-328-5067 SYNOPSIS: Fellowships of $12,000 each support doctoral dissertation research on issues related to the environment, natural resources, or energy. Eligible applicants are graduate students of any nationality in the final year of dissertation research. Ebert (Friedrich) Foundation Friedrich Ebert Fndn. Pre-Dissertation/Advanced Graduate Fellowships Telephone: 212-687-0208 Email:fesny@undp.org SYNOPSIS: Awards of DM 1,150 per month are available for five to twelve months of study and research in Germany. Disciplines include political science, sociology, history, and economics. Eligible applicants are U.S. citizens who are U.S. university graduates intending to pursue a doctoral degree and/or participating in a special research project. Expected outcome is a dissertation proposal or completed research. U.S. Marine Corps Marine Corps Dissertation Fellowships Telephone: 703-432-4884 SYNOPSIS: A single $10,000 dissertation fellowship per academic year, established to memorialize the twentieth Commandant of the Marine Corps, is awarded to a qualified graduate student working on a doctoral dissertation pertinent to Marine Corps history. July 1 American Physical Society APS Dissertation Award In Nuclear Physics Telephone: 301-209-3268 Email:honors@aps.org SYNOPSIS: The award consists of $2,500 and an allowance for travel to the annual Spring Meeting of the Division of Nuclear Physics of the American Physical Society, at which the award will be presented. July 1 Association for Canadian Studies in the U.S. ACSUS--Distinguished Dissertation Award Telephone: 202-393-2580 Email:info@acsus.com SYNOPSIS: The sponsor provides an award to honor outstanding doctoral research on Canada at U.S. institutions. Eligible nominees are deserving students who have completed a doctoral degree between August 2009 and August 2011. Faculty serving on dissertation committees at Universities in the U.S. and individual members of ASCUS may submit nominations. The award consists of an honorarium of $500. Pivot Database Pivot Database Funding opportunities can also be searched for using Pivot, an online database of funding opportunities which Boston College subscribes to. You can access this database by clicking here, but you must be using a computer on campus or on Eagle VPN for external access. For assistance using Pivot, please contact OSP at 617-552-3344. Application Portals Application Portals Agency application portals include: Grants.Gov NIH: Assist NSF: Fastlane Foundations: Proposal Central Internal Funding Opportunities The purpose of internal BC funding opportunities is to assist BC faculty members in starting a line of inquiry and in competing for external funds. Research Incentive Grants Research Incentive Grants (RIG), are worth up to a total of $15,000 (including one month's summer salary). Every year at least 15 RIGs are awarded on a competitive basis. All regular, full-time, tenure-track faculty members are eligible to apply for these grants. Explore RIG Research Across Departments and Schools Research Across Departments and Schools (RADS) supports interdisciplinary research projects between faculty in different disciplines, departments, and schools across BC. The Vice Provost for Research will support five projects annually for up to $50,000. Ignite Program The Ignite Program helps Boston College researchers remain competitive by providing rapid access to funds. Awards are distributed three times per year, with 3-4 awards per cycle, up to $30,000. Research Expense Grants Research Expense Grants (REG) help to finance the smaller expenses of doing research. The maximum for a single REG is $2,000. All tenured and tenure-track faculty are eligible to apply for these grants. Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College