Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Winter Break Challenge Home Events and Programs Winter Break Challenge Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Get Ready for 2022! Join our Winter Break Challenge to jumpstart your search before spring. A majority of employers will be hiring in the spring, so winter break is a great time to start preparing! We have put together a checklist of items to help you use this time to your advantage. Completing the challenge will ensure you are in a great position to find a post-grad job or summer internship (and calm some of your anxieties in the process). Register Now Complete the Challenge Print To complete the Winter Break Challenge, finish all activities in dark blue and one activity in light blue before the first day of spring semester on January 18. Additional activities in light blue are bonus activities to keep the momentum going. The more you do, the more confident and prepared you will be for your spring job or internship search! Complete Your Handshake Profile Complete your Handshake profile, including work experience, courses, extracurricular activities, and more. Add a photo and summary to help your profile stand out. If you’ve never logged in to Handshake, activate your account by logging in to the platform using your Agora username and password. In addition: Follow at least 5 employers on Handshake. Register to attend a spring semester career event such as a panel, workshop, or information session. Search for jobs or internships that are of interest to you. Take note of the deadlines and start to apply! Want more? Take the 10-Day Handshake Profile Challenge. Sign Up for a Career Cluster(s) To sign up for a career cluster(s) and receive newsletters related to your interests, update your career interests in Handshake. By updating your interests, not only will you receive updates and resources from our coaches, you’ll be 5x more likely to hear from relevant employers directly about open positions and upcoming events. We have six different industry-focused career clusters to choose from. Read through the industries that fall within each career cluster to see which appeals to you. Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Are you interested in more than two clusters or unsure of your career interests? That's ok! We recommend making an appointment in January with one of our Exploration coaches to get started. Connect with BC Alumni on Eagle Exchange Play Why Network? Colleen White, MCAS '11, Director of Product Management at Fuze, invites you to connect with BC alumni Complete or update your Eagle Exchange profile and reach out to 2-3 alums on Eagle Exchange to schedule an informational interview. Log in to your Eagle Exchange account with your Agora credentials. Don't know what to say in your initial outreach message? Eagle Exchange provides you with templates. Log in to Eagle Exchange Find an alum with whom you are interested in talking. You can browse your recommended connections or explore the community. Click 'Message' or, if in their profile, 'Let's Connect'. Select a template message to edit or write your own outreach message. Click 'Send'. Note: you may also click 'Request a Meeting' below the message box to schedule time to meet. If you do this, also be sure to send a message to provide context to your meeting request. Repeat the steps above at least 1-2 more times! Prepare for the conversation using this list of questions or feel free to come up with your own questions (but remember to never ask directly for a job or interview). Update Your Resume Create or update your resume using the step-by-step information and sample resumes by career cluster on the Career Center website. If you’d like feedback on your resume, attend drop-ins starting on January 18. Develop a Search Plan Depending on where you are in your career discernment and planning, develop your own personalized exploration plan or job/internship search plan to set goals and deadlines for yourself throughout the semester. Need help with your plan? Schedule time to meet with a career coach in January or talk to a trusted mentor, advisor, friend, or family member. Create or Update Your LinkedIn Profile Create or update your LinkedIn profile, using the Career Center website. Practice Interviewing Start preparing for your interviews and practice articulating your skills through the Big Interview platform. Go to BC’s Big Interview page. Click 'Register' in the top right corner or sign in if you have previously registered. Use your BC email address to create a free account Review interview resources, tips, and videos in the platform if you choose Click on ‘Practice’ at the top to find interview questions that you’d like to practice answering. Share your recording with someone (your choice) for feedback. This could be a mentor, a supervisor, a family member, a friend or someone else who will provide you with both positive and constructive feedback. Use the AI feature for immediate feedback and suggestions on how to improve. This tool tracks and analyzes your use of “filler” words, rate of speech, eye contact, vocabulary, and more. Review and consider the feedback you receive. Meet with a Career Coach Our coaches will be available during the month of January. Our office will re-open for appointments on Monday, January 3. Schedule a career coaching appointment in Handshake if you have questions about your search plan or feel stuck. Complete a Project Complete a project on Forage to build some concrete career skills. Through the Forage platform, you can sign up for a 5-6 hour project where you are given a hypothetical set of tasks that an employee would expect to complete on a given work day. You will gain valuable career skills and build your resume. Join a Group Discussion on Eagle Exchange Join one or more Eagle Exchange groups based on your career interests or personal identities. Post your own discussion questions to the group and/or respond to other questions that have been posted in the group to learn from and share your experiences with the community. Build an Online Portfolio Build an online portfolio to showcase your work to potential future employers. Use this resource for tips. Review Your Online Presence Review and revise your online presence, following the suggestions in this blog post. Save the Date Our Spring Career and Internship Fair will be held on Thursday, February 17. Fairs are a great opportunity to make connections with employers and learn about job and internship opportunities. Completing the Winter Break Challenge activities will help you prepare for the fair. From the Career Center Blog Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam The Career Fair is over. Now What? Congratulations, you took a positive step forward in your career journey by attending a Career Fair! Now what? What you do February 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Career Myths, Debunked A myth is a widely held, but false belief or idea. Do they exist on campus? Of course. Did you September 03, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Eight Ways to Kick Off Your Fall Semester It’s back to school season! There’s nothing like the excitement of returning to campus, reconnecting with friends, decorating your new August 27, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Managing Family Career Expectations Read this if…. Your family expects you to have a high-earning or high-profile career. You feel pressured to be successful April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam The Career Fair is over. Now What? Congratulations, you took a positive step forward in your career journey by attending a Career Fair! Now what? What you do February 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College