Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Scholarships and Financial Aid Scholarships and Financial Aid Meadows FAFSA/CSS Waiver SMU Scholarships and Financial Aid Did you know the cost of college varies from person to person? Depending on your audition or portfolio, academic profile, and family income, you may qualify for academic scholarship, artistic scholarship from Meadows, and/or need-based aid from SMU or the U.S. government. Seventy-five percent of SMU undergraduate students receive scholarships and/or need-based aid. Students in these areas should refer to the SMU Scholarships & Financial Aid page for further information. At Meadows School of the Arts, we value talent, dedication and intellectual ability, and strive to ensure that we are creating the best possible financial aid packages for our students. Bottom line: Don't let the price tag scare you. Keep reading to learn about: Range of Scholarship/Financial Aid Packages for Dual Admit Students Financial Aid Application Process and Timeline Possible Elements of a Financial Aid Package Range of Scholarship/Financial Aid Packages for Meadows Dual Admit Students Click on your area below to see average artistic scholarship amounts and average total financial aid/scholarship packages from last year’s admitted first-year class. ART total art aid packages* Average artistic scholarship of admitted art applicants was $5,000 Average total scholarship + aid package* of admitted art applicants was $20,000 This year, SMU Undergrad Tuition and Fees 2020-21 is $58,540 * Does not include loans or work study compensation; the above scholarships + need-based aid packages represent “free money” that does not have to be paid back. DANCE total dance scholarship and aid packages* Average artistic scholarship of admitted dance applicants was $11,000 Average total scholarship + aid package* of admitted dance applicants was $35,000 This year, SMU Undergrad Tuition and Fees 2020-21 is $58,540 * Does not include loans or work study compensation; the above scholarships + need-based aid packages represent “free money” that does not have to be paid back. FILM-B.F.A. total film scholarship and aid packages* Average artistic scholarship of admitted film applicants was $6,000 Average total scholarship + aid package* of admitted film applicants was $27,000 This year, SMU Undergrad Tuition and Fees 2020-21 is $58,540 * Does not include loans or work study compensation; the above scholarships + need-based aid packages represent “free money” that does not have to be paid back. MUSIC total music scholarship and aid packages* Average artistic scholarship of admitted music applicants was $13,000 Average total scholarship + aid package* of admitted music applicants was $40,600 This year, SMU Undergrad Tuition and Fees 2020-21 is $58,540 * Does not include loans or work study compensation; the above scholarships + need-based aid packages represent “free money” that does not have to be paid back. THEATRE total theatre scholarship and aid packages* Average artistic scholarship of admitted theatre applicants was $12,000 Average total scholarship + aid package* of admitted theatre applicants was $36,000 This year, SMU Undergrad Tuition and Fees 2020-21 is $58,540 * Does not include loans or work study compensation; the above scholarships + need-based aid packages represent “free money” that does not have to be paid back. Financial Aid Application Process for Meadows Dual Admit Students Apply to SMU and Complete Audition or Submit Portfolio. Consult the specific admission checklist for your area for guidelines on when to apply and audition/submit your portfolio. Submit FAFSA and CSS Profile. It is imperative that the information on the FAFSA and CSS Profile match. Click here to review important details and guidelines. Important details about applying for financial aid: Include SMU's school code on your submissions: 6660 (CSS Profile) and 003613 (FAFSA). Information on the FAFSA and CSS Profile must match. Monitor your email for any additional documents that the SMU Office of Financial Aid may request. FAFSA and CSS Profile forms must be completed every year. FAFSA and CSS Profile are not required for international student applicants. Review guidelines on when to submit FAFSA and CSS Profile Dual Admit students (Music, Dance, Theatre, Film and Media Arts [B.F.A.], and Art) Be sure to submit your FAFSA and CSS profile by January 15. Please note that Meadows artistic scholarships will be determined after all candidates in each Meadows division have been reviewed for admission. Therefore, admitted students should expect final scholarship and financial aid packages between mid-March and early April. Students pursuing degrees in Advertising, Art History, Corporate Communication and Public Affairs, Creative Computing, Fashion Media, Film and Media Arts (B.A.), Journalism, and Public Relations and Strategic Communication should submit FAFSA and CSS profile by November 1 if applying Early Action or Early Decision I. If applying Regular Decision or Early Decision II, submit the FAFSA and CSS profile by January 15. Not applying for need-based aid? If you do not intend to apply for need-based financial aid, you must submit the Meadows Waiver Form. Trying to decide whether or not to apply for financial aid? Click here. The University's Division of Enrollment Services advises that a family income above $350,000 with one child in college is the approximate limit for need-based aid consideration. Review notification timeline: Academic merit scholarships: Students will be notified of any SMU academic merit scholarship they have received with their University admission decision. Artistic merit scholarships: Meadows artistic merit scholarships are determined beginning in mid-March, with the bulk of awards being communicated at the end of March/early April. Only students who have been admitted to Meadows and the University with completed FAFSA and CSS Profile forms OR a completed Meadows Waiver Form are considered for artistic scholarships. Notification of artistic scholarships is via email. Complete financial aid packages: Approximately one week after the Meadows Artistic Merit Scholarship has been finalized, students will be able to log in to my.smu.edu to view their complete SMU Scholarship/Financial Aid Package. Possible Elements of a Scholarship/Financial Aid Package A financial aid package for a Meadows Dual Admit student may consist of any of the following, or a combination, as these elements can all be “stacked”: Meadows Artistic Merit Scholarship Entering first-year and transfer students majoring in Music, Dance, Theatre, Film & Media Arts (B.F.A.) or Art and who have been admitted to SMU and to Meadows via audition or portfolio submission are considered for renewable artistic merit scholarships. Scholarship selection is based on audition performance or quality of portfolio, as well as departmental need for the specific discipline/instrument. A separate application is not required for Meadows Artistic Merit scholarship consideration. Award amounts vary by discipline. Minors (Music, Dance, Art) are not considered for artistic scholarships. Meadows Scholar Award The Meadows Scholars Program provides renewable scholarships to approximately 20 first-year students who have demonstrated high achievement in both the arts and academics. First-year students who have been admitted to SMU and indicate on their SMU admission application that they plan to major in any Meadows area of study are considered for this award. Selection for this highly competitive scholarship is determined using SMU admission application information. No additional application is required for consideration. Funding for the Meadows Scholars Program is made possible by generous support from Meadows' patrons of the arts. SMU Academic Merit Scholarship First-Year students See SMU Academic Scholarship Programs for more information. Do you have extraordinary leadership qualities and strong academic performance? Be sure to apply for the Hunt Leadership Scholars Program, the only SMU scholarship which requires an application. Transfer Students See Transfer Scholarships for more information. SMU need-based grant, federal grant(s), state grant(s), loans and/or work-study Awards See SMU Need-based Assistance for more information. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search