Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × All areas of study Engineering Humanities Engineering Natural Sciences Social Sciences The School of Engineering and Applied Science is unique in combining the strengths of a world-leading research institution with the qualities of an outstanding liberal arts college. In both its teaching and research, Princeton engineering pursues fundamental knowledge as well as multidisciplinary collaborations that make technology effective in solving complex societal problems. The school is committed to preparing all students — engineers as well as students from across the University — to become leaders in a technology-driven society. Programs Keyword Type of Degree - Type of Degree - Undergraduate Degree Undergraduate Certificate Graduate Degree Graduate Certificate Applications of Computing The Program in Applications of Computing is an interdisciplinary program designed for students who want to combine the study of computing and computers beyond an introductory level with another academic concentration, but who are not concentrating in computer science. Academic Units Program in Applications of Computing Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Architecture and Engineering The interdisciplinary program enables undergraduate students to tackle topics at the intersection of engineering and architecture, including structural, computational and environmental design. The certificate focuses on opportunities to respond dynamically to evolving global challenges, where elegant and effective solutions lead to more resilient and sustainable communities. Academic Units Program in Architecture and Engineering Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Chemical and Biological Engineering Undergraduate areas of concentration include bioengineering and biotechnology, materials and product engineering, energy and environmental engineering, optimization, dynamics, and information technology, entrepreneurship and management, and science and engineering for new technologies. The graduate program develops leaders in chemical and biological engineering by conducting research that defines the frontiers of knowledge. We prepare chemical engineers for careers in teaching, research and development, and management in academia, government and industry. View Courses Academic Units Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering Degrees & Certificates B.S.E. M.Eng. M.S.E. Graduate certificate Ph.D. Civil and Environmental Engineering The department offers undergraduates five options: architecture and engineering, environmental engineering, geological engineering, structural engineering, and engineering and the liberal arts. The graduate program offers study and research in two areas: mechanics, materials, and structures, and environmental engineering and water resources. View Courses Academic Units Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Degrees & Certificates B.S.E. M.Eng. M.S.E. Ph.D. Computational and Information Science The graduate certificate in computational and information science offers students comprehensive training in numerical analysis, software engineering, computer science, and statistics and data modeling in ways that promote discovery in the sciences, engineering, and humanities. Academic Units Princeton Institute for Computational Science and Engineering Degrees & Certificates Graduate certificate Computer Science Undergraduates learn fundamental concepts of the discipline and to become proficient in the use of advanced computer systems. The plan provides opportunities for study in software systems, algorithms and complexity, machine architecture, computer graphics, programming languages, machine learning, and other core areas of computer science. The graduate program accepts beginning and advanced students for study and research. The degree programs are sufficiently flexible to adapt to individual plans of study and research. View Courses Academic Units Department of Computer Science Degrees & Certificates A.B. B.S.E. M.S.E. Ph.D. Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate students begin with a unifying foundation before studying in an area of specialization which ranges from devices to optoelectronics, to computer architecture and communication technology, to microprocessors. Students may select one of a set of suggested concentrations, or tailor their own in consultation with their faculty adviser to suit special interests. The graduate program emphasizes forward-looking education and original, cutting-edge research. While addressing fundamental issues and applications, graduate research focuses on current high-growth fields like security, photonics, nanotechnology, quantum computing, biomedical applications, networks and communications, and multicore computer architecture. View Courses Academic Units Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Degrees & Certificates B.S.E. M.Eng. Ph.D. Engineering Biology The program is designed for undergraduate students who want to pursue careers or graduate education in biotechnology or bioengineering. For engineering students, the program offers study in cellular and molecular biology, genetics, physiology, biochemistry and neuroscience. For biological and chemical sciences majors, the program offers study in biotechnology, biomechanics, thermodynamics, control theory, hazardous waste management, electronics, computer graphics and information theory. Academic Units Program in Engineering Biology Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Engineering Physics The program is directed toward students interested in a fundamental knowledge of physics, together with problem-solving skills and an understanding of engineering. Undergraduates study energy, environment, materials, microelectronics, astronautics, and photonics. Academic Units Program in Engineering Physics Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Entrepreneurship The program aims to supplement undergraduates in their major departments with an understanding and practice in entrepreneurship. View Courses Academic Units Program in Entrepreneurship Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Geological Engineering Geological engineering is the application of science to problems involving the Earth, its physical environment, earth materials, and natural resources. The program prepares students for graduate study or practice in geology, geochemistry, geophysics, oceanography, water resources, engineering and environmental geology, and civil and environmental engineering. Academic Units Program in Geological Engineering Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Materials Science and Engineering The undergraduate program emphasizes the multidisciplinary nature of the study of materials and the engineering application of their properties. It is designed primarily for students in science and engineering departments who are considering careers in materials. View Courses Academic Units Program in Materials Science and Engineering Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Joint Degree (Ph.D.) Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering The undergraduate program guides students to build fundamental knowledge in key engineering disciplines and develop practical skills in problem-solving and design. The core of the department's curriculum -- solid and fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, dynamics, control systems, materials and applied mathematics -- are combined with the experience of engineering design. The graduate program defines the frontiers of knowledge in our field by preparing leaders in engineering and applied sciences for careers in academia, industry and government. Our program emphasizes achieving fundamental understanding in a broad range of topics, a deep understanding in a particular area and excellent communications skills. View Courses Academic Units Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Degrees & Certificates B.S.E. M.Eng. M.S.E. Ph.D. Operations Research and Financial Engineering The undergraduate program brings together coursework in science, mathematics, computing and technology to provide for broad intellectual development suitable for many different types of careers. By choosing from courses in engineering, science, mathematics, economics, public policy, and liberal arts, each student may design a program adapted to his or her particular interests. The graduate program places a strong emphasis on quantitative methods and mathematical modeling. Students develop a unique set of skills that build upon a solid foundation in probability, statistics and optimization. View Courses Academic Units Department of Operations Research and Financial Engineering Degrees & Certificates B.S.E. M.S.E. Ph.D. Optimization and Quantitative Decision Science The certificate Program in Optimization and Quantitative Decision Science and Optimization (OQDS), formerly the certificate Program in Engineering and Management Systems, is focused on developing quantitative skills for optimal decision making in complex and uncertain environments. View Courses Academic Units Program in Optimization and Quantitative Decision Science Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Robotics and Intelligent Systems The undergraduate program is designed for students interested in pursuing careers or graduate education in automation, intelligent systems, and the understanding of human intelligence from the perspective of neuroscience and computation. Academic Units Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Sustainable Energy The undergraduate program is designed to broaden understanding in energy resources and their impact on the environment. Students learn to quantitatively analyze, design and develop systems that support sustainable economic growth and environmental harmony, and learn about environmental change from the perspective of engineering, technology, economics and policy. Academic Units Program in Sustainable Energy Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Teacher Preparation The program combines coursework, seminars, laboratory experience, field work and practice teaching to become fully prepared and certified to teach successfully at the middle and secondary levels. Participants can earn certification in art, English, mathematics, music, the sciences, social studies and world languages. The program is approved by the New Jersey Department of Education and by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP). View Courses Academic Units Program in Teacher Preparation Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate Technology and Society The undergraduate program is targeted to students, both engineers/scientists and humanists/social-scientists, who are interested in exploring the intersection of society and technology. Programs of study are offered under information technology and energy tracks. Academic Units Center for Information Technology Policy (information technology track) Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment (energy track) Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate certificate More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice