Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Engineering Technology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Engineering Technology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Engineering Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology Focus on the practical over the theoretical with the Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology in Temple University's College of Engineering. Students in this undergraduate degree program focus on hands-on, real-world technology solutions, learning how to bridge the gap between design engineers and production teams. Courses explore basic differentiation and integration in calculus and applied engineering statistics. Technologists—in high demand in a wide variety of industries—translate plans into functional prototypes. Often called applied engineers, engineering technologists use technical skills and applied engineering knowledge to build, install, repair and improve high-tech equipment and technical facilities. Temple prepares you to apply engineering principles and technical skills to analyze and find practical solutions at the point of production. Some of your coursework will include applied strength of materials, applied material technology, applied engineering statics, applied fluid mechanics and more. You can also tailor your degree to your interests in one of several tracks. Study Tracks You can focus on Engineering Technology in one of the following areas of specialization. Computer Technology Track Computer engineering technologists work in analog and digital design, digital communications, microprocessor hardware and software applications, and network administration. They have a strong knowledge of hardware and software and how the two interact. They also might design, install, maintain and operate computer systems, as well as perform programming and systems analysis, or be involved in robotics. Construction Technology Track Construction engineering technology involves managing and converting engineering plans and specifications into finished structures. Some construction engineering technologists focus on residential and other building structures, while others work on bridge, highway or underground projects. They apply their knowledge to many aspects of construction, including cost estimating, labor management, materials specification and estimating, overall planning, and phased construction plans. General Technology Track Engineering technologists use the principles and theories of science, engineering and mathematics to solve technical problems in construction, inspection, manufacturing, maintenance, research and development, and sales. This track allows students to choose from a wide variety of engineering technology electives to create a customized study plan. Mechanical/Manufacturing Technology Mechanical or manufacturing engineering technologists work in teams to develop equipment, machines, processes and tools to make quality products at reasonable costs. It often involves electronics and electric power; engineering graphics, materials and mechanics; and hydraulics and pneumatics. Jacob Erdlen ENG ’20 “This program helped me to take a wider breadth of classes to better prepare myself for life after graduation." Read more Classes & Curriculum The following are examples of common courses required for students in the 124-credit Engineering Major program. Applied Materials Technology Electrical Devices & Systems I Engineering Electronics Introduction to Engineering & Engineering Technology Learn more about required courses for the Engineering Technology BS. Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Learn more about co-ops, internships and other career development opportunities. Senior Design College of Engineering students have hands-on, practical opportunities to apply the theories and concepts learned in their coursework to real-world engineering design projects. In the Senior Design course, you'll plan, formulate and develop designs, as well as learn skills and techniques for managing and executing projects. Explore Senior Design. Related Graduate Degrees Civil Engineering MS Computer and Systems Security PSM Electrical Engineering MS Engineering Management MS Mechanical Engineering MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Explore financial aid and scholarship opportunities for the Engineering Technology Major. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. Further, you’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and have opportunities to affect positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Society of Highway Engineers, Temple Robotics and the Temple University Amateur Radio Club. See the full list of engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition, the Student Design Competition and many others. Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Study Away Opportunities Add a global perspective to your Engineering Technology Major. Study abroad for a summer or semester. Accreditation Temple’s Bachelor of Science Engineering Technology program is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET. Learn more about accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-ENGT-BSET Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Engineering Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info