Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Outreach Menu Main Nav Student Outreach and Support Services Contact Back Back Close About Overview Frequently Asked Questions Contact Disability Services Overview Accommodations Faculty and Staff Information LGBTQ Programs and Support Student Support Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close LGBTQ+ Programs and Support Home LGBTQ Programs and Support Student Outreach and Support Services is dedicated to fostering a welcoming, safe and inclusive environment for all students and to positively impact and improve the LGBTQ+ student experience at Boston College. Through individual support, programming and outreach, we strive to support gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning students and their allies by creating safe and affirming spaces for self-discovery and acceptance around gender and sexuality, building community, and providing education and resources. Meet Our Staff Caroline Davis, M.A. Director Welcome Meet Our Staff Need Support? Pride Peers Mentoring Discussion Groups Spectrum Weekend Retreat Lavender Graduation Community Events Clubs and Organizations for Undergraduates and Graduate Students Welcome! We hope that this page helps you learn about the support, programs and events offered for LGBTQ+ students and their allies from our Student Outreach and Support Services and connects you to resources on and off campus. We are excited to get to know you and to support the LGBTQ+ community on campus to flourish with PRIDE! Please feel free to email any member of our team or our general email, spectrum@bc.edu. Need Support? Part of being human and in community is sometimes needing support from others. We are here for you! If you are in crisis: If you think you are at risk of harming yourself or others please immediately call University Counseling Services at 617–552–3310, during regular working hours. If after hours please contact University Health Services 617-552-3225 and ask to speak with the PEC. More information can be found at the UCS website. Other LGBTQ-specifc crisis hotlines are: The Trevor Project: (866) 488-7386 The Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender National Hotline: (888) 843-4564 Trans Lifeline: (877) 565-8860 If you are not in crisis: The professional and graduate student staff in Student Outreach and Support Services are here to help. You do not have to be sure that you are part of the LGBTQ+ community to reach out for support and we support students with more than just aspects of their sexuality or gender identity. We routinely work with students who are exploring or questioning their identities and also with LGBTQ+ students who need support in other areas of their lives. You can call us at 617-552-3470, email: student.support@bc.edu, or email any of our staff directly. You can also join us at our weekly discussion group, Prism. If you feel that you have been subject to a violation of the University’s “bias-motivated conduct policy,” please also see information from the Office of Student Conduct regarding reporting any allegations of misconduct. Pride Peers Pride Peers is a mentoring program that pairs LGBTQ+ first year students and new transfer students (or any student interested) with upper-class LGBTQ+ peers and creates spaces to bond and reflect on sexuality and gender identity. If you are interested in having a mentor, fill out this online form. We will start our full program in September but we are happy to connect incoming first year/transfer students to an upper class Mentor over the summer so that you already have a connection before you come to campus! Upper class LGBTQ+ students, if you are interested in becoming a mentor, fill out this online form. We will outreach to mentors over the summer and schedule interviews and training prior to the start of the fall semester. If you have any questions please email: caroline.davis.2@bc.edu Discussion Groups Student Outreach and Support Services offers private, reflective, and welcoming spaces for LGBTQ+ students to meet and engage in meaningful discussion around identity development. Groups meet weekly for an hour and are open to anyone who wants a private and comfortable space to interact with peers exploring similar issues around what it means to identify as LGBTQ+ at BC and in the world. No appointments, formal arrangements, or commitments necessary--drop in whenever the support group is meeting and we'll be there waiting to welcome you with open arms, hearts, and minds! QBIPOC Discussion Group- a group for queer, Black, Indigernous, and people of color providing support, discussion, and community. Facilitated by QBIPOC graduate students. Prism -a group for all LGBTQ+ and questioning students. Facilitated by queer and trans graduate students. Transcend - a group for trans, nonbinary, agender, and genderfluid students as well as students who want a space to talk about exploring their gender identity. Facilitated by nonbinary and trans graduate students. Schedule for 2022-2023 Groups Coming Soon Spectrum Weekend Retreat Spectrum is a confidential, free weekend away for LGBTQ students. In this welcoming environment, participants will be encouraged to engage in conversation and reflection about their personal identities and to discern who they are and who they are called to be at Boston College and beyond. The weekend also builds community among gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning students, staff, and faculty at Boston College. Every year, participants say that the retreat was transformational, with many claiming it was their best experience at BC thus far. Space is limited, so we encourage you to register ASAP, as we reserve on a first come, first served basis with preference toward those who have never attended Spectrum. Past Participant Testimonials Spectrum Weekend has left an indelible mark on the lives of many LGTBQ+ students here at BC. Watch this video of anonymous testimonials from past participants to see what so many had to say about their experiences on this confidential and free weekend away. Frequently Asked Questions How much does the retreat cost? The weekend is free! When is the retreat? February 2023 (specific dates coming soon) When does registration open? Registration for Spectrum 2023 will open October 31, 2022! An email announcement will be sent to the campus community announcing the opening of registration How will the coronavirus pandemic affect Spectrum? What are your plans for ensuring student safety? As of now we don’t know what the situation will look like come February. We do have the location booked and are planning to have the retreat in person. Nevertheless, we are already making changes to decrease student density in sleeping areas, rotate meal times, and spread out large groups. If the situation changes and an in-person retreat is not possible we have a plan to make the necessary adjustments to offer a distance-retreat online. Who is encouraged to attend? Any Boston College undergraduate student who identifies as a member of the LGBTQ+ community and those who may be questioning. *This weekend is not intended for allies.* If I have attended Spectrum before, can I participate again? Priority registration is given to those individuals who have never participated in the past. However, individuals who have previously attended Spectrum may register and attend if space permits. What should I expect from this weekend? You will be invited to engage in reflection and conversation about your personal identity and to explore who you are at Boston College and beyond. The weekend will also build community amongst LGBTQ+ students as well as provide faculty/staff who may be resources for students. Who should I contact if I have additional questions? Questions and comments may be directed to: Caroline Davis, Assistant Dean of Students, at caroline.davis.2@bc.edu or 617-552-3470. Lastly, you can email the Spectrum Weekend Leadership Team at spectrum@bc.edu. Learning Outcomes After participating in the Spectrum Weekend, students will be able to... Demonstrate a greater understanding about their own personal identities by engaging in conversation and reflection in a safe and tranquil space. Display a deeper understanding of the significant relationships in their lives, such as family, friends, partners, etc. Articulate with greater clarity and specificity the role of faith or spirituality in their lives as a GLBTQ student. Identify supportive resources and role models in the Boston College community, including faculty and staff. Name new peers with whom they share common experiences, thus building a greater sense of community amongst GLBTQ students. Register for the Retreat Spectrum 2023 February Registration opens 10/31/22 Spectrum 2023 February 2023 Registration opens 10/31/2022 Lavender Graduation Lavender Graduation is a celebration that recognizes LGBTQ+ students of all backgrounds and acknowledges their contributions to the University. Graduating LGBTQ+ seniors and graduate students are recognized for their leadership, successes, and overall commitment and contributions to the LGTBQ+ community. Through such recognition, LGBTQ+ students may leave Boston College with a positive final experience, filling them with pride both in themselves, and in their college experiences. Date for Lavender Graduation 2023 Coming Soon Community Events Even when we can’t meet as a large group in person, there are lots of great events coming up for the 2022-2023 school year! To stay up to date, join our email listserv or keep an eye out on the Division of Student Affairs Division News emails! Clubs and Organizations For Undergraduate Students: GLBTQ Leadership Council (GLC) GLC is a governing body of UGBC focused on GLBTQ and Allied Issues. GLC is committed to advocating for the betterment of the quality of life for all students at Boston College, especially those who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, through community outreach, policy work and educational, social, and initiative programming. Contact: glc@bc.edu Allies of Boston College Allies of Boston College is a group of GLBTQ and straight students working to foster a more inclusive community for everyone. Contact: Colin Marsh, Co-President. For Graduate Students: Graduate Pride Alliance Graduate Pride Alliance (GPA) is an organization sponsored by the Graduate Student Association (GSA), for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender graduate students and allies. Contact: bcgradpride@gmail.com Website: GPA Gaudete Gaudete is a Theology and Ministry group that recognizes the dignity of each person and seeks to enrich the STM community with openness, acceptance, and fellowship by providing a space to dialogue and witness. Website: Gaudete Lambda Law Association Lambda Law Students Association is an activist and social group that is dedicated to increasing awareness and support for the GLBTQ community at BC Law School. Contact: lambdabclaw@gmail.com SSW Spectrum Spectrum is a student group in the Graduate School of Social Work to inform the larger social work community about diversity, homophobia, heterosexism, sexual orientation, and gender identity. Contact: spectrumbcssw@gmail.com View additional club and organization contacts | LGBTQ Resource Guide LGBTQ+ Services and Resources Print Get Immediate Help Get Immediate Help Need Support? Part of being human and in a community is sometimes needing support from others. We are here for you! If you are in crisis: If you think you are at risk of harming yourself or others please immediately call University Counseling Services at 617–552–3310, during regular working hours. If after hours please contact University Health Services 617-552-3225 and ask to speak with the PEC. More information can be found at the UCS website. Other LGBTQ-specifc crisis hotlines are: The Trevor Project: (866) 488-7386 The Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender National Hotline: (888) 843-4564 Trans Lifeline: (877) 565-8860 If you are not in crisis: The professional and graduate student staff in Student Outreach and Support Services are here to help. You do not have to be sure that you are part of the LGBTQ+ community to reach out for support and we support students with more than just aspects of their sexuality or gender identity. We routinely work with students who are exploring or questioning their identities and also with LGBTQ+ students who need support in other areas of their lives. You can call us at 617-552-3470, email: student.support@bc.edu, or email any of our staff directly. >>Link to welcome page with staff info. You can also join us at our weekly discussion group, Prism. >> link to Discussion Groups or join any of our other programs or events. If you feel that you have been subject to a violation of the University’s “bias-motivated conduct policy,” please also see information from the Office of Student Conduct regarding reporting any allegations of misconduct. On Campus Allies and Resources On Campus Allies and Resources Athletics Carly Pariseau, Associate Athletic Director Conte Forum 308 | 2-6210 l carly.pariseau@bc.edu Boston College Police Department (BCPD) Jeff Postell, Lieutenant Emergency 2-4444 | Non-Emergency 2-4440 l jeffrey.postell@bc.edu Campus Ministry Chris Darcy, Associate Director McElroy 228 | 2-4957 | c.darcy@bc.edu Ellen Modica, Campus Minister McElroy 226 | 2-4665 | ellen.modica@bc.edu Career Center Joseph DuPont, Associate VP for Student Affairs Southwell Hall | 2-3430 | joseph.dupont@bc.edu Connors Family Learning Center Kathleen M. Duggan, Director O’Neill Library 200 | 2-0893 | kathleen.duggan@bc.edu Counseling Services Gasson 001 | 2-3310 Craig Burns, Director l craig.burns@bc.edu Julie AhnAllen, Associate Director l julie.ahnallen@bc.edu Johanna Malaga, Senior Staff Psychologist l johanna.malaga@bc.edu Selina Guerra, Staff Psychologist l selina.guerra@bc.edu First-Year Experience Mike Sacco, Executive Director Stokes 179S | 2-3281 | michael.sacco@bc.edu Graduate Student Life Hannah Chalufour, Assistant Director Murray Graduate Student Center | 2-1855 l hannah.trost@bc.edu Montserrat Coalition Yvonne McBarnett, Director 36 College Road| 2-3140| yvonne.mcbarnett@bc.edu Office of Health Promotion Elise Philips, Director Gasson Hall 013| 2-6833| elise.phillips@bc.edu Office for Institutional Diversity Patricia Lowe, Director Brighton Campus, 129 Lake Street, Room 213 l 2-2323 | patricia.lowe@bc.edu Office of International Programs Samantha Lee, Program Assistant Hovey House 105 | 2-0627 | oip@bc.edu Office of Student Involvement Claire Ostrander, Director Carney Hall, Suite 147 | 2-3480 | claire.ostrander@bc.edu Office of University Fellowships Jason Cavallari, Administrative Director Stokes, S140 | 2-9259 | jason.cavallari@bc.edu Residential Life Dorrie Siqueiros, Director, Residential Education Maloney Hall, Suite 413 | 2-3129 | dolores.siqueiros@bc.edu Student Services Agnes Jordan, Associate Director, General Services Lyons Hall 101 | 2-3318 | agnes.jordan@bc.edu Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Fr. Michael Davidson, S.J., Director Maloney Hall, Suite 455| 2-3359 l Michael.davidson.3@bc.edu Undergraduate Admission Grant Gosselin, Director Devlin Hall 208 | 2-3100 | john.mahoney.2@bc.edu University Harassment Counselor Linda Riley, Executive Director 129 Lake 340A | 2-4714 | linda.riley@bc.edu University Health Services Madelyn Rivera-Bellino MSN, ANP-BC (she/her/hers), Nurse Manager 2150 Commonwealth Avenue, Room #020 l madelyn.rivera@bc.edu Phone: 617-552-2659 | Fax: 617-552-3603 Women’s Center Katie Dalton, Director Maloney 441 | 2-6919 | kathryn.dalton@bc.edu Off Campus Referrals Off Campus Referals Boston Alliance of LGBTQ Youth (BAGLY) 28 Court Square, Boston, MA | 617-227-4313 Boston Area Rape Crisis Center (BARCC) 989 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, MA 24-Hour Hotline: 800-841-8371 Boston GLASS 75 Amory St. Jamaica Plain, MA | 857-399-1920 Bisexual Resource Center | 617-424-9595 Fenway Community Health Center 1340 Boylston Street, Boston, MA | 617-267-0900 Sidney Borum Jr. Health Center 75 Kneeland Street, Boston, MA | 617.457.8140 South End Community Health Center 1601 Washington Street, Boston, MA | 617-425-2000 The Network/La Red (TNLR) 617-742-4911 (voice) | 800-832-1901 (Toll-Free) Trans LifeLine 24-Hour Peer Support Hotline | 877-565-8860 The Trevor Project 24-Hour Hotline | 866-438-7386 Campus Clubs and Organizations Campus Clubs and Organizations For Undergraduate Students: GLBTQ Leadership Council (GLC) GLC is a governing body of UGBC focused on GLBTQ and Allied Issues. GLC is committed to advocating for the betterment of the quality of life for all students at Boston College, especially those who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, through community outreach, policy work and educational, social, and initiative programming. Contact: glc@bc.edu Allies of Boston College Allies of Boston College is a group of GLBTQ and straight students working to foster a more inclusive community for everyone. Contact: Colin Marsh, Co-President. For Graduate Students: Graduate Pride Alliance Graduate Pride Alliance (GPA) is an organization sponsored by the Graduate Student Association (GSA), for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender graduate students and allies. Contact: bcgradpride@gmail.com Website: GPA Gaudete Gaudete is a Theology and Ministry group that recognizes the dignity of each person and seeks to enrich the STM community with openness, acceptance, and fellowship by providing a space to dialogue and witness. Contact: Molly Minnerath [[link to minnerat@bc.edu]], Co-Chair Website: Gaudete Lambda Law Association Lambda Law Students Association is an activist and social group that is dedicated to increasing awareness and support for the GLBTQ community at BC Law School. Contact: lambdabclaw@gmail.com SSW Spectrum Spectrum is a student group in the Graduate School of Social Work to inform the larger social work community about diversity, homophobia, heterosexism, sexual orientation, and gender identity. Contact: spectrumbcssw@gmail.com Signature Programs and Events Signature Programs and Events Our office works to improve the LGBTQ+ student experience by offering support, education, outreach, programs, and opportunities for LGBTQ+ students including: Pride Peers A mentoring program that pairs LGBTQ+ undergrads with upper-class LGBTQ+ peers and creates spaces to bond and reflects on sexual and gender identity. LGBTQ+ Community Dinners Casual monthly dinners where all LGBTQ+ and allied students are welcome to come together to eat, chat, laugh, and foster our community at Boston College! Discussion Groups Student Outreach and Support Services offers private, reflective, and welcoming spaces for LGBTQ+ students to meet and engage in meaningful discussion around identity development. Groups meet weekly for an hour and are open to anyone who wants a private and comfortable space to interact with peers exploring similar issues around what it means to identify as LGBTQ+ at BC and in the world. No appointments, formal arrangements, or commitments necessary--drop in whenever the support group is meeting and we'll be there waiting to welcome you with open arms, hearts, and minds! Prism -a group for all LGBTQ+ and questioning students. Facilitated by queer and trans graduate students. Transcend - a group for trans, nonbinary, agender, and genderfluid students as well as students who want a space to talk about exploring their gender identity. Facilitated by nonbinary and trans graduate students. Lavender Graduation A celebration that recognizes LGBTQ+ students of all backgrounds and acknowledges their contributions to the University. Graduating LGBTQ+ seniors and graduate students are recognized for their leadership, successes, and overall commitment and contributions to the LGTBQ+ community. Through such recognition, LGBTQ+ students may leave Boston College with a positive final experience, filling them with pride both in themselves and in their college experiences. Spectrum Retreat A free, confidential spring retreat where LGBTQ+ and questioning undergraduate students engage in reflection and exploration of their sexual and gender identities with LGBTQ+ student leaders and faculty mentors. Individual Support Our doors are always open to anyone seeking support! Please call or email Angelique or Caroline anytime. Information for Faculty and Staff Information for Faculty and Staff Student Outreach and Support Services (SOSS) is proud to offer training to any department or office that would like us to work with their faculty and/or staff to ensure competence and confidence when working with our LGBTQ+ students! Our sessions can be tailored to your needs in terms of length and content, and will cover many topics affecting LGBTQ+ identity construction so that you can be the best possible resource for LGBTQ+ students at BC. Contact Caroline Davis or Angelique Bradford for more information. All Back To Top Back To Top Student Outreach and Support Services Maloney Hall, Suite 445 617-552-3434 student.support@bc.edu About Disability Services LGBTQ Support Students of Concern Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College