Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Acquire the cultural knowledge and sociolinguistic skills necessary to solve language-related problems in everyday and institutional communication with the Undergraduate Certificate in Language and Cross-Cultural Communication in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 15-credit undergraduate certificate is designed to give students the anthropological and linguistic tools needed to understand and study the foundations of language use and communication. The innovative Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) curriculum consists of linguistic anthropology courses that cover language and how it helps us understand culture, contemporary and historical relationships between the two, and the diversity of the world's languages. Temple University’s overarching goal is to prepare students to work and thrive in an increasingly globalized world. Students with language-related expertise, particularly cross-linguistic and cross-cultural knowledge, have highly desirable skill sets. The Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) program is congruent with professional trends in language-related disciplines, and it provides a strong foundation from which to launch a professional career. Classes & Curriculum Courses you are likely to take as part of the Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Undergraduate Certificate curriculum include Fundamentals of Linguistic Anthropology; Language, Power, & Identity; Maya Language and Culture; and Theory and Method in Linguistic Anthropology. Learn more about Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) courses. Related Graduate Degrees Africology and African American Studies MA Africology and African American Studies PhD Anthropology PhD Liberal Arts MLA Spanish MA Spanish PhD Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Damien Stankiewicz is the academic advisor for the Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 312-316-6764 Email: damien@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For more information about the Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff member. Jessica Brennan is the administrator and program contact for the Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Anthropology Department. Yvonne Davis is the coordinator and program contact for the Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: yvonne.davis@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-LCCC-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Language and Cross-Cultural Communication Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info