Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science FAQ For Faculty What does it mean to be a Carney-affiliated faculty member? As a brain scientist affiliated with the Carney Institute, you qualify for various research and training opportunities. We have supported early-stage projects through individual awards of up to $100,000 annually, which have generated collaborations and new federal funding. We have supported faculty in grant preparation and management; secured NIH awards to help launch research of early-stage faculty; supported training including fellowships for postdocs, graduate students and undergraduates; and engaged the local community in brain science. The Carney Institute supports faculty recruitment, and our recruits and affiliated faculty members since 2011 have led projects with more than $116 million in grant funding from federal and other sources. Your work is, therefore, elevated when you say you are associated with one of the best-endowed university brain institutes in the country. If you are interested in becoming affiliated with the Institute, or have faculty-affiliation related questions, contact John Davenport, managing director of the Carney Institute. I’m a scientist at Brown University, and I have an idea for an innovative brain science project. How can I apply for funding for my project? The Carney Institute provides innovation awards to help brain scientists launch new, innovative research projects with great potential that are too risky and early stage for NIH or other external funding sources. These are open to all Brown faculty members conducting brain science research at Brown or its affiliated hospitals. Any basic or translational research that is within the Carney Institute mission is eligible for support. For Postdoctoral Researchers I’m a postdoctoral researcher at Brown University and interested in brain science. How do I get involved with Carney and other postdocs? You may join our Postdocs in Brain Sciences program, which aims to foster a sense of community among postdocs and to encourage discussion about scientific, professional development, and policy-related issues. With sponsorship from the Carney Institute, the program hosts a number of activities for postdocs, including social gatherings, basic science events, translational events, professional development events, as well as lunch meetings with invited speakers. Brown University also offers resources and mentorship for its postdocs. For Students I’m interested in graduate school. How do I apply to a brain science program? Brown University is a leader in brain-related research and offers exceptional training and course work for those interested in pursuing careers in brain science. The Carney Institute partners with eight discipline-based graduate programs. Students interested in interdisciplinary brain science training enter through one of these graduate programs. Apply to graduate school at Brown. I’m a Brown undergraduate student looking for a summer research position in a Brown brain science lab. How do I find one? The Carney Institute does not directly place research students in laboratories. Contact the researchers you are interested in working with directly with your request. As an undergraduate student at Brown, you can contribute to discoveries and help forge new research directions. The Carney Institute supports UTRA research, a university-wide program which gives students the opportunity to collaborate with Brown faculty on research and teaching projects. I’m an undergraduate student at another university. How do I participate in research at Brown University during the summer? For undergraduates from other universities, the Carney Institute focuses its efforts on supporting students from diverse backgrounds to build research experience. The Leadership Alliance places students in summer research experiences throughout the University, including Carney-affiliated laboratories. General What does the Carney Institute do? The Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science brings together more than 180 world-class faculty and their research groups across 23 Brown University departments and its affiliated hospitals to foster game-changing research into how we think, feel and behave. We are pursuing research that has real-life, human applications—from brain-computer interfaces to aid patients with spinal injury and paralysis; innovative advances in computational neuroscience to address behavior and mood disorders; development of bioluminescent molecules to detect and control neuronal activity; to developing new methods for labeling neural circuits; and research into mechanisms of neurodegeneration as part of efforts to identify therapies for neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. Furthermore, we support faculty recruitment as well as research and training opportunities for our brain science community, and operate state-of-the-art research facilities and instruments. We provide core facilities for brain imaging, brain stimulation, and behavioral analysis. We have also invested in advanced microscopy, genomic analysis, and computational support. We provide innovation awards for faculty, fund graduate and undergraduate research awards, and we manage the COBRE program which supports pilot research projects. I’m suffering from a neurological or psychiatric disease. What is a clinical trial, and how can I find one? According to the World Health Organization, a clinical trial is “any research study that prospectively assigns human participants or groups of humans to one or more health-related interventions to evaluate the effects on health outcomes.” You may be eligible to enroll in one of the many clinical trials held throughout the U.S. I’m visiting the Carney Institute. Where do I park, and how do I access the Carney Institute headquarters? The Carney Institute is located on the fourth floor of 164 Angell Street, above the Brown Bookstore. Since card access is required to access the fourth floor, visitors may use the telephone on the first floor near the elevators to call the Carney Institute at 401-863-7421. Visitors may park at a metered space on the street or in Lot 68 Upper, also called the Power Street Parking Garage, located at 111 Power Street. The garage entrance is located at the intersection of Power and Thayer Streets (View Map). I’m interested in STEM education and outreach. Where can I learn about the resources available to the Brown community? The Carney Institute is committed to facilitating and sponsoring outreach events for all educational levels and backgrounds. Browse through these resources to discover the wealth of brain science in Rhode Island, as well as STEM outreach and education resources available through Brown University. I am a member of the Carney community, and I have a story idea or an exciting new brain science discovery. How do I get featured on the Carney website and/or e-newsletter? Email a short summary of your idea or discovery, as well as a PDF of your publication to Sara Feijo, Carney’s communications and outreach manager. How do I sign up to receive Carney Institute news and event announcements? Fill out this form. How do I host a seminar or workshop in the Carney Institute space at 164 Angell Street? Email the Carney Institute with your request. How can I book a room in the Carney Institute space at 164 Angell Street? Email the Carney Institute with your request. Will the Carney Institute sponsor my brain science-related event? The Carney Institute provides financial support for a limited number of events aimed at a broad audience each year. To request support, please complete this form. The Carney Institute does not support events that are strictly clinical-focused on patients. How do I get my brain science-related event on the Carney Institute’s calendar of events? Create a page for your event in [email protected] at least two weeks prior to the day of your event. You may suggest your event to another group under "Sharing and Privacy." Select the Carney Institute's calendar and your event will be automatically sent to us. If you have questions, please email [email protected]. About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top