phonebook Connections Profiles The following discloses the information gathering and dissemination practices for the Phonebook application which is product-managed by the Directory Services Product Team. This group reports to the University Chief Information Officer, and is a part of the Central Administration IT Organization. Information gathering Central Administrative Systems may collect your IP address, HUID (as a unique login identifier), username, pages visited, files uploaded, as well as information about your browser type, and operating system. And, these web logs may be archived. Use of information Central Administrative Systems personnel may use the information collected to diagnose problems, for session control, to create web page statistical reports, to determine web page usage patterns, or to verify if unauthorized or inappropriate access to confidential data has occurred. User sessions may be analyzed and the data may be linked to your user name to determine if you are a frequent user of an application. Employees and contractors may, under strict confidentiality requirements, access and use personally identifiable information for authorized administrative purposes as well as for the maintenance purposes outlined above. We do not otherwise disclose any personally identifiable information to any third parties, except as required by law. Security This site has security measures in place to help prevent unauthorized access to and misuse of the personally identifiable information under our control. Contact If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your interactions with this site, contact Harvard's Directory Services Product Team at directory_services@harvard.edu. For additional information please see Harvard University's enterprise security policy regarding the use of information collected on web sites - http://www.security.harvard.edu. This web site may contain links to other independently run web sites within the Harvard network and to some sites outside the "harvard.edu" domain. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such web sites. Changes to this Policy Any material changes to this policy will be posted prominently on the first page of our web site for a reasonable time before such changes go into effect. Effective Date The effective date of this policy: March 1, 2010