Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Research Partners About Contact us Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Kansas Center for Rural Health Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Kansas Center for Rural Health Partners About About Rural Health Council Contact us The Kansas Center for Rural Health aims to identify and reduce rural health disparities and improve the rural healthcare workforce and care delivery through research, education and service. The center is located on the School of Medicine’s Salina campus, in the Health Education Center. Center Goals Develop partnerships and a process for regular rural health workforce assessment and analysis Work with rural partners to develop and test innovative practice models in rural communities Support pragmatic rural research and translational efforts to community-based care Serve as a rural health liaison between KU Medical Center and other rural health stakeholders and partners Promote rural health in all policy Learn more about the Kansas Center for Rural Health. Ways to Get Involved Our partners are individuals and organizations interested in improving rural health for Kansas. Partners Become a Partner Members of the KU Medical Center community can serve on the Rural Health Council. Council Join the Council Interested in helping? Want to learn more about the center? Get in touch with us. Contact Contact Us "The center will work with rural physicians, providers and health systems to improve access and support quality health care for rural Kansans while considering the unique social and economic factors that determine health outcomes for people in rural areas. It is critical to our mission that citizens in all parts of the state have comprehensive care." - Robert Moser, M.D. Contact us for more information Are you interested in becoming a partner or speaking with us about education and research opportunities? Complete a simple form to tell us about how you would like to get involved. Get more information KU School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center Kansas Center for Rural Health Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 785-822-0402 kcrh@kumc.edu School of Medicine-Salina Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.