Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Cell mapping expert receives HHMI diversity fellowship with eight years of support Scott Lyon, Office of Engineering Communications Feb. 18, 2021, 1 p.m. The Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) has named Princeton postdoctoral researcher Sofia Quinodoz a 2020 Hanna Gray Fellow, bolstering her study into how the structures within cells contribute to disease. Quinodoz will receive up to $1.4 million over the next eight years, funding her bioengineering research at Princeton and granting her startup funds for an unspecified future role as a principal investigator. Quinodoz, whose family emigrated from Argentina in the mid-1980s, earned her bachelor's degree in molecular biology from Princeton in 2013. The HHMI fellowship connects her to a growing network of diverse, early career researchers who are tackling the most urgent problems in the life sciences. Sofia Quinodoz Photo by Aaron E. Lin The 2020 cohort, announced on Feb. 18, includes 21 scholars from 18 institutions. "Sofi is an absolutely fantastic scientist who is already having a major impact in my laboratory," said her adviser Cliff Brangwynne, the June K. Wu ’92 Professor in Engineering. "It’s no surprise that she is being honored with the most prestigious fellowship in the life sciences. The Hanna Gray fellowship adds rocket fuel to Sofi’s already impressive trajectory." The Hanna H. Gray Fellows program supports researchers from underrepresented groups who have the potential to become academic leaders. The support comes at a critical time in these scientists' careers — the transition from student to postdoctoral researcher to principal investigator — which is often seen as a bottleneck in the academic pipeline. As of 2021, HHMI has committed over $100 million to increasing diversity in academia, including 64 Hanna Gray Fellows so far. Melanie McReynolds, a postdoctoral researcher in the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics and a 2018 Hanna Gray Fellow, said in a statement that the fellowship's impact is both immediate and lasting. "People begin to take you seriously because they know HHMI has invested in you," she said. For Quinodoz, the HHMI investment will allow her to pursue critical research into the organization of genetic material within the nucleus of a cell. As a graduate student at the California Institute of Technology, she developed a technique to map how the nucleus is organized. In the Brangwynne laboratory, she plans to combine that mapping technology with advanced manipulation and imaging tools to give her a complex, four-dimensional view of the genetic material within nuclear bodies. Scientists believe these bodies, also called condensates, act like tiny machines carrying out highly specialized tasks. Unlocking their genetic organization could provide clues into how their structures and functions contribute to cancer and neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS. "We don't know what all of these condensates are doing," Quinodoz said. "But if I can manipulate these condensates using the exciting tools developed in Cliff’s lab and map their interactions, I can start to understand their impact and role." The Brangwynne lab has pioneered ways to engineer those condensates, giving Quinodoz new methods to test how genes get turned on and off. Ultimately, she hopes to unpack the nucleus bit by bit to ask big questions about the inner workings of a cell. With HHMI's support, she also looks forward to becoming a role model for future Hispanic women interested in the life sciences, as well as young researchers more broadly. "Obviously, you don't need a role model who looks like you to do something important," she said. "But it helps." Related Stories McReynolds wins HHMI Hanna Gray Fellowship for early career researchers Read more Brangwynne selected as Howard Hughes Medical Investigator Read more Forward Fest public conversation series continues as part of A Year of Forward Thinking Read more Princeton faculty Brangwynne, Sly; arts fellow Okpokwasili awarded MacArthur Fellowships Read more Brangwynne, pioneer of cell biology, receives Wiley Prize in Biomedical Sciences Read more Diversity in science: HHMI names Emily Dennis one of 15 Hanna Gray Fellows Read more Cliff Brangwynne upends tradition to establish a new view of biology Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice