COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Mechanical Engineering, Minor MinorMechanical Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering Wichita State’s minor in mechanical engineering offers additional knowledge and skills for students in other engineering emphases in the design of products, machines and processes for manufacturing. The minor is a valuable asset for many engineering careers and graduate-level study. Learn how mechanical engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Summer internship propels engineering senior forward Before her senior year, Amy McClain already had her foot in the door, having spent the summer interning at a Kansas City engineering firm. It was a competitive process, but being part of such a strong program as a mechanical engineering major at WSU gave Amy the skills and connections to get the job. “Apply, apply, apply to all the internship programs out there. Having experience is vital for job searches in the industry.” Curriculum To complete the minor engineering minor, you’ll take 15 credit hours of courses exploring machinery design, thermodynamics, mechanical engineering design, fluid mechanics and heat transfer. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—give mechanical engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying careers in diverse fields Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Mechanical Engineering Aerospace Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©