Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Impact Student Giving Student Giving Students are a vital part of SMU’s culture of philanthropy. During SMU Giving Day 2021, 450 students gave nearly $20,000 in just one day. More than 80 student organizations participated. Champions of each organization seized the opportunity to shine a spotlight on their favorite campus causes. For example, a Greek Life competition received more than 2,000 gifts, because, in addition to chapter members donating, they rallied their friends, family and chapter alumni to give too. That’s just one way that SMU Mustangs are thinking big and doing good on the Hilltop and beyond. Support students Since tuition only covers about three-quarters of an SMU education, our students rely on the generosity of alumni, parents and friends who make current-use contributions. Make a current-use gift to provide annual support for academic programs, student experiences, and faculty members who shape a new generation of world changers. GIVE NOW PLC Members Chair Peter Wetherbee Committee Members Autumn Beck Natesa Vaidya Abba Yaney Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search