Logo Networked & Social Systems Engineering Apply Home About Us Academics Student Life Careers & Resources Research Opportunities Featured Stories & Events THE FUTURE IS UP TO THE FEW WHO SEE THINGS CLEARLY Networks permeate and influence virtually every aspect of our lives- everything from how millions of Parisians travel on the Metro to how individuals make friends. Networks lift entire economies and elect presidents. They start revolutions. Move commerce. Make scientific discoveries. Cure diseases. Secure peace. Save lives. To understand and predict behavior, and to design new capabilities and services, we must understand people, systems, and incentives, and how the structure and properties of networks affects interactions. To that end, we’ve created an entirely unprecedented, multidisciplinary program that connects the study of networks with the study of human behavior. Networked & Social Systems mixes courses in engineering, mathematics, and science with courses in sociology, game theory, economics, and policy. More than just gaining the fundamental knowledge that navigates the various strategies and decisions that make up human interaction, you will build the digital solutions that anticipate the way people – and systems – will act. Learn more » Featured Stories NETS Student Samantha Chung Selected as KPCB Engineering Fellow April 12, 2017 From http://www.seas.upenn.edu/media/news/kpcb-mar-17.php: Samantha Chung (NETS'19, shown in center) and two other SEAS students have been selected as 2017 KPCB Engineering Fellows. The KPCB Fellowship Program was developed b Read more » NETS Assistant Professor Victor Preciado Receives NSF CAREER Award March 08, 2017 From: http://www.seas.upenn.edu/media/news/nsf-17.php Penn Engineering assistant professor Victor Preciado, Raj and Neera Singh Assistant Professor, has been selected to receive a 2017 NSF CAREER Award. This award is the NSF's Read more » NETS Professor Aaron Roth Becomes Class of 1940 Chair New Co-Directors: Professors Andreas Haeberlen and Aaron Roth NETS Professor Rakesh Vohra Video Profile Lu Chen from Facebook is Visiting More news » Featured Perfect The Warren Center for Network and Data Sciences ASPEN - cluster processing of heterogeneous dynamic data Query-driven data integration Differential privacy Secure network provenance Next-generation network science Accountability in distributed systems Cloud computing Learn More » Speakers Series Mar 27 15:00 101 Levine Hall Securing Deployed Cryptographic Systems Christina Garman , Johns Hopkins University Mar 23 15:00 101 Levine Hall New Algorithms for High-Dimensional Data Ilya Rzenshteny , MIT CSAIL More archived events » RT @akaur0: I read Dr. @safiyanoble’s #Algorithms of Oppression a while back and heard Dr. Noble speak at a past SLA conference! Looking fo… March 23, 2022, 5:59 pm I read Dr. @safiyanoble’s #Algorithms of Oppression a while back and heard Dr. Noble speak at a past SLA conference… https://t.co/1QrxNieLV9 March 23, 2022, 4:35 pm .@PennEngineers reveal new #DataScience building will be named Amy Gutmann Hall. @WarrenCntrPenn @PennNETS https://t.co/5NS8pfUgAV October 4, 2021, 1:44 pm RT @MishaLyon: Thrilled to be writing a feature length piece on blended threats and the evolution of social engineering and disinfo as the… June 18, 2021, 12:28 am RT @MishaLyon: Thrilled to be writing a feature length piece on blended threats and the evolution of social engineering and disinfo as the… June 18, 2021, 12:20 am Thrilled to be writing a feature length piece on blended threats and the evolution of social engineering and disinf… https://t.co/lqBGFsRVIK June 17, 2021, 10:34 pm Join the conversation » Question of the Day How do you build interactive applications like Gmail and Google Maps that only require a browser? Get the Answer » Featured Faculty Aaron Roth, Co-Director Alejandro Ribeiro Andreas Haeberlen, Co-Director Daniel E. Koditschek Francis X. Diebold Stay Connected FAcebook Twitter 220 South 33rd Street 107 Towne Building Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 215-898-7246 Contact Penn Engineering University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Quick links Home About Us Academics Student Life Careers & Resources Featured Stories & Events Research Opportunities Resources About Research Opportunities Speaker Series