Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Interdisciplinary Programs Management of Technology (MOT) Certificate Home » Academics » Interdisciplinary Programs » Management of Technology Menu Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results The Management of Technology Certificate is open for MBA and non-MBA graduate students at Georgia Tech and focuses on a STEM-based curriculum in technology management. Studies confirm that earning an information technology certificate increases job prospects and may provide greater opportunities for career advancement. Certificate Overview The certificate option is available to any student who has earned a graduate degree from Georgia Tech. Obtaining the certificate provides students with a strong foundation in managerial decision-making allowing them to work with peers across business, engineering, and science industries to develop and transform technical and scientific expertise in the global marketplace. After completing the certificate, students will have the multidisciplinary and information technology perspective necessary to meet strategic and operational challenges faced by established firms as well as start-ups operating in dynamic and uncertain environments. Certificate Requirements Student must complete a required course, MGT-ISyE 6772, that provides a multidisciplinary approach to innovation and technology management. Additionally, students select three electives from the approved electives list to develop an individualized program of study that fits their career goals. A required course in a student’s major program of study cannot be used to meet an elective requirement for the certificate, according to Georgia Tech policy. In addition to certificate program requirements (see Embedded Graduate Certificate Guidelines), students must earn a grade of B or better in MGT-ISyE 6772 and in each of the three electives. Required Course: MGT-ISyE 6772 Students learn how a firm’s long-term competitive advantage is driven by innovations in science and technology. Students learn how to manage the strategic and operational challenges associated with uncertainty in the context of technological change, global competition, and dynamic markets. With the perspective of integrating operations, information technology, marketing, organizational behavior, and strategy, we consider how to develop (innovate), design (plan), measure (assess), and improve (change) a firm’s resource capabilities (technology, workforce, materials, information, processes, knowledge) in both the manufacturing and service industries. Students analyze business cases in manufacturing and services settings and read articles from managerial practice and leading research journals. The course requirements include a final exam and three written group case analyses. Elective List of Courses MGT 6000 Financial and Managerial Accounting I (not an elective for MBA students). MGT 6056 Electronic Commerce. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6057 Business Process Analysis and Design. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6058 Information Technology Practicum (only open to MBA students). MGT 6059 Analysis of Emerging Technologies. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6086 Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity. Contact Professor Narayanan Jayaraman for permission if you have not met the prerequisite for this course, MGT 6060. MGT 6111 Innovation and Entrepreneurial Behavior. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6165 Venture Creation (only open to MBA students). MGT 6203 Big Data Analytics in Business OR MGT 6213 Business Analytics for Managers. (only open to MBA and MSA students). MGT 6311 Digital Marketing. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6326 Collaborative Product Development. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6353 Operations Strategy. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6359 Business Strategies for Sustainability. The prerequesite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6400 Pricing Analytics and Revenue Management. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6401 Supply Chain Modeling. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT 6450 Project Management. The prerequisite is waived for students who have completed the core course MGT-ISyE 6772. MGT-ME-ECE-CHE-BMED 6789 Technology Ventures MGT-ME 6799 Legal Issues in Technology Transfer PubP 6401 Science, Technology and Public Policy Registration Information Non-MBA students may ONLY register for daytime MBA course sections offered in fall and spring semesters. Daytime sections of MGT-ISyE 6772 are offered in both fall and spring semesters and there are no restrictions on early registration. However, most other MBA electives are offered in daytimes in either fall or spring semesters. Registration is only open to non-MBA students during the first week of each semester, which allows MBA students to register for the electives needed to complete their degrees. The Scheller College of Business does not issue overload permits. Application Process After earning a graduate degree from Georgia Tech and meeting the Management of Technology Certificate requirements, a student may apply for the certificate. Please note that it may take up to 45 days to receive the certificate by mail. The written request to apply for the certificate should include: Full name Student ID number List of the courses taken to fulfill the certificate requirements Semester the courses were taken and the corresponding grades earned Name of the Georgia Tech graduate degree and the date of graduation Mailing address that will be valid for 45 days after you submit the application Email the above information to Professor Cheryl Gaimon at . Contact MOT Certificate Faculty Director Dr. Cheryl Gaimon or (404-385-2409) Dr. Gaimon's Faculty Profile #3 MBA in Business Analytics U.S. News & World Report, 2023 #11 Part-time MBA Among Public Institutions Fortune, 2022 #3 U.S. Metro Area for Corporate Headquarters Business Facilities, 2020 Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures