Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Police » Recruitment Set Navigation title in component Recruitment 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Victim Services What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Recruitment Be Part of UC Join the University of Cincinnati Police Division The University of Cincinnati Police Division is currently seeking police officers for the positions of University Law Enforcement Officer 1 and University Law Enforcement Officer Apprentice. Join one of the nation's leading universities and make a positive impact in the lives of others. UC Police Officers work every day to create a safe community, serving and protecting those who are poised to change the world. If you are a problem solver who is passionate about serving your community, join an organization where you can train and grow. Apply to ULEO 1 Apply To ULEO Apprentice ULEO 1 Job Description right arrow down arrow Job Overview Assist with department needs to achieve the goals and satisfy the mission of the University of Cincinnati and Police Division. Provide a safe environment for students, faculty and staff. Under close supervision from higher level university law enforcement officer or supervisor, receive instruction on purpose and responsibilities of university law enforcement officer at state supported university. Essential Functions Detain and arrest offenders. Complete prisoner processing procedures. Maintain and transport persons in custody. Engage with citizens in crime reduction efforts through effective communication efforts. Engage in problem solving initiatives. Execute civil processes. Conduct professional radio and telephone communications activities. Write reports, take field notes, prepare narratives, summaries and criminal case paperwork. Conduct preliminary investigations. Establish, preserve and protect crime scenes. Conduct interviews. Be a resource to pedestrians and motorists. Administer first aid. Collect and process evidence, lost and found property. Testify truthfully, completely, and honestly in court. Investigate suspicious persons and activity. Conduct legally authorized searches of persons, places and things. Conduct simple to complex investigations. Identify problem-solving initiatives to address crime related issues. Work with other agencies to address community concerns. Conduct surveillance of individuals and locations. Engage in self-initiated patrol. Responsible intelligence gathering and disseminate. Search with consent, warrants or incident to a lawful arrest. Process individuals for traffic and criminal offenses. Law enforcement hazards. May be required to work rotating shifts, holidays, weekends, scheduled and unscheduled overtime (must be able to work any shift). Ability to climb stairs, pursue suspects, and provide first aid and emergency care. Use and maintain firearms with proficiency in accordance with department policy and State law. Maintain level of agility and physical fitness to perform the duties of a ULEO1. May work in inclement weather for long durations. Perform related duties based on departmental need. This job description can be changed at any time. Apply Now ULEO Apprentice Job Description right arrow down arrow Job Overview Under close supervision from Training Section Lieutenant, attend and successfully complete a certified Ohio Peace Officer Training Academy (OPOTA). Essential Functions Complete Ohio Peace Officer Basic Training Curriculum (OPOTC) within one year of employment. Proficiency shall include but not be limited to the following OPOTC subject areas: administration, legal topics, human relations, firearms, driving, subject control techniques, first aid, CPR, AED, patrol, civil disorders, traffic, investigations, physical conditioning, and homeland security. Write reports, take field notes and prepare narratives with close supervision. Drive a police vehicle. Assist stranded motorists. Administer first aid. Testify in court. Collect and properly route lost and found property. Complete radio and telephone communications. Enforce university rules and regulations, with close supervision. Participate in Community Oriented Police (COP) programs with close supervision. Must learn basics of criminal and civil law, university rules and regulations, departmental rules and regulations, departmental rules and procedures, University Law Enforcement techniques, labor relation practices and proper safety practices. Must demonstrate complaint resolution skills and good report writing skills. Must possess good public relations skills. Law enforcement hazards. May be required to work rotating shifts, holidays, weekends, scheduled and unscheduled overtime (must be able to work any shift). Ability to climb stairs, pursue suspects, and provide first aid and emergency care. Use and maintain firearms with proficiency in accordance with department policy and State law. Maintain level of agility and physical fitness to perform the duties of a ULEO Apprentice. May work in inclement weather for long durations. Perform related duties based on departmental need. This job description can be changed at any time. Apply Now Benefits right arrow down arrow UCPD is an agency that invests in our people. Our benefits include: A competitive salary and an excellent benefit package Tuition remission for you, your spouse/domestic partner and your children Extensive training opportunities A flexible schedule Nothing beats walking our campus, a campus Forbes Magazine says is one of the world’s most beautiful Contact Information right arrow down arrow William Richey Lieutenant 51 W. Corry Blvd., Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4966 william.richey@uc.edu Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top