Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Affairs Menu Main Nav Student Affairs Contact Back Back Close About Overview Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Involuntary Leave of Absence Policy Communication Updates Related Links Mission and Ministry Student Services Departments & Programs Overview BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Center for Student Wellness Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women's Center Related Links Assessment Program Eagle Path Cross Currents Seminars Divisional Committees Mission and Ministry Student Services How Can We Help You? Events Overview Weeks of Welcome 2021 Community Webinar FAQs Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Assessment Home Departments & Programs Assessment Assessment efforts in the Division of Student Affairs focus primarily on student learning. In addition to ensuring that we are meeting the needs of students, our efforts are driven by our curiosity to know in what ways our programs and services help students to learn more about themselves and others, apply that learning, and integrate it into their lives. Assessment allows us to live into our Jesuit ideal of the magis, which orientates us to continually strive to be more. Training and Resources Assessment Champions Divisional Awards This content was created to help all members of the division – from assessment beginners to those with advanced training and experience – gain the necessary skills to conduct assessment and use the results to tell the story of their work. Below, you'll find resources to get started on assessment, including templates, a user-friendly assessment cycle, workshop materials, and a link to Campus Labs, our assessment vendor. The division also has an assessment working group which consults with departments on assessment activities. For more information, please contact Carrie Klemovitch (carrie.klemovitch@bc.edu) or Melinda Stoops (stoopsme@bc.edu). Workshops and Training Available Assessment Workshops Session 1: Fundamentals of Assessment I This presentation briefly references learning outcomes and other preliminary aspects to assessment. Session 2: Developing Learning Outcomes This presentation breaks-open how to create and refine a program's learning outcomes. Session 3: Fundamentals of Assessment II This presentation delves deeper into various methods and manners of assessement. Session 4: Facilitating Focus Groups This presentaiton discusses best practices around forming and facilitating focus groups. Other areas of training include: Creative / non-traditional assessment methods Assessment-related software Focus groups Survey design Coding qualitative data Assessment tools Identifying and writing goals and objectives Resources Forms Assessment Timeline Tools BC Assessment Cycle Assessment Conversation Guide Compliance Assist: Uploading E1A Forms and Other Documents Department Assessment Rubic Focus Group Protocol Campus Labs (Click here to access your projects and view live webinars) Don't have a login? Contact Carrie Klemovitch. Campus Labs Support Site (Click here for additional assessment resources and an archive of past webinars) Data and Research Websites BC Office of Institutional Research, Planning, and Assessment BC Institutional Review Board Each department within the Division of Student Affairs has at least one member who serves as "Assessment Champions" on a division-wide assessment working group. These individuals help oversee assessment work within the division, and provide consultation on assessment projects, provide training to colleagues, and help troubleshoot assessment-related issues within and across departments. The champions are: Name Department Andy Petigny Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Rachel Greenberg Career Center Peter Kwiatek Student Conduct Carole Hughes Graduate Student Life Claire Ostrander Office of Student Involvement Kier Byrnes Robsham Theater Eileen Suhrhoff University Counceling Services Theresa Barba University Health Services Carrie Klemovitch Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Melinda Stoops Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Katie Dalton Women's Center Andy Anderson Residential Life Rebecca McCain Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Divisional Excellence Awards 2020-21 At the end of each academic year, an award ceremony is held to recognize the assessment and programming efforts across the division. The four award categories are as follows: Excellence in Performance Excellence in Service to Students Excellence in Communications Graduate Assistant Awards The Excellence in Performance awards recognize exceptional work in program effectiveness and innovation. These are evidence-based awards that can demonstrate that the program or service has contributed to student life at Boston College in a significant way. The Service to Students awards recognize extraordinary effort and good spirit within the division of student affairs to further our work with students. The Excellence in Communications awards recognize the efforts of an individual or department that go above and beyond in the promotion of a student program or campaign. The deadline for nomination submissions is Monday, March 29 at 5:00 PM. View Award Criteria and a listing of past recipients Fill out the Nomination Form Award Descriptions Excellence in Performance Excellence in Performance Excellence in Program Effectiveness: This award recognizes evidence-based efforts which break new ground in addressing student needs and/or critical campus issues. This award honors an individual or group of individuals who demonstrate effective use of assessment strategies and best practice research in their efforts to improve student life at Boston College. Specific criteria: Evidence-based Grounded in research Conditions improve as a result of the program Breaks new ground Excellence in Supervision: The excellence in supervision award is given annually to an outstanding supervisor within the division of student affairs who empowers staff or students to be their best. This individual is fair and consistent in his/her actions, develops individual plans for personal formation with staff or students, communicates clear expectations and holds staff and student workers accountable, and treats all colleagues with dignity and respect. Specific criteria: Must be a supervisor Show evidence (real examples) of outstanding supervision Show evidence of empowering staff or students Holds staff or students accountable Outstanding Collaboration: This award may be presented to an individual, team, or department within the division that successfully demonstrates collaboration across departments to better serve our students, the division, or the University. Successful nominees will demonstrate careful planning and use of research and best practice methods to promote student learning. Examples may include initiating a new program, planning an innovative event, or offering a new service in conjunction with another group or groups on campus. Specific criteria: Evidence of collaboration beyond just sponsorship or inviting others to join or participate Innovative Collaboration starts at the planning stage Integrity Award: This award is given to the person who demonstrates integrity in all aspects of self and professional practice. The award may be presented to an individual who actively identifies ethical issues, assists students and colleagues in ethical decision-making, and appropriately addresses issues that are not consistent with professional ethics. This person is not afraid to take a stand when a difficult issue arises, and is recognized by many as someone who engenders trust, confidence, and tact in personal and professional relationships. Specific criteria: Actively identifies ethical issues Assists students and colleagues in ethical decision-making Appropriately addresses issues that are not consistent with professional ethics Service to the Profession Award: This award recognizes an individual within the division who demonstrates significant contributions to the student affairs profession while maintaining high quality work within the division. Contributions may include service to state, regional, or national professional associations; publication of best practices or original research; or presentation at professional conferences. Specific criteria: High quality work both within the division and outside of division Evidence of publications/presentations (material submitted with nomination) Service in professional associations (regional chair, knowledge community, etc.) Both breadth and depth Excellence in Service to Students Excellence in Service to Students Excellence in Service Award: This award recognizes the contributions of a staff member, group or office who works to make procedures, services, facilities, programs, and/or the general Boston College learning environment a welcoming, efficient, and high quality experience for students. The recipient(s) goes above and beyond to enhance students’ experiences at Boston College while thoughtfully balancing educational needs and customer service. Others, especially students, may comment on the helpfulness, professionalism and assistance of these individuals or group and on their willingness to create a positive, active and inclusive learning community. Specific criteria: Go above and beyond for a welcoming environment Innovative Evidence that things have changed because of service The benefit of service is students’ learning Living the Mission Award: This award is given to a member of the Division of Student Affairs who has been a leader in facilitating student learning and formation and has worked to advance the Jesuit, Catholic values of Boston College. This award recognizes an employee who best exemplifies excellence in providing services or creating programs that help integrate students’ intellectual, spiritual and social realms. Specific criteria: The person embodies the spirit and essence of St. Ignatius Integrates all aspects of the mission Helps students integrate the various aspects of their lives on campus Shows impact Diversity Award: The Diversity Award recognizes the efforts of staff that strive to promote understanding and appreciation of diversity in its multitude of forms. The award may be presented to a person, group, or program that a) helps build an environment of inclusivity and awareness; b) supports the education of issues of diversity and social justice; and c) engages members of the BC community in dialogue and conversation around issues of race, religion, gender, identity, socioeconomic status, sexual orientation, mental disability, or physical disability. Specific criteria: Committed to a spirit of pluralism Provides educational and/or professional development opportunities to students and/or staff about diversity, multiculturalism, and social justice Nurtures an environment of openness, tolerance, and inclusion Celebrates the unique qualities within the student population and the Division of Student Affairs Incorporates diverse perspectives into program planning and implementation Award for Integrated Learning: This award recognizes a faculty member or academic administrator outside of the division who has effectively contributed to the integration of the academic and co-curricular experiences of Boston College students. Examples could include advising a non-academic group, accompanying students on a service-related or cultural trip, or showing special support of co-curricular learning opportunities for students. This faculty member may have also engaged in a successful partnership with staff from the Division of Student Affairs. Specific criteria: Evidence of integrating student experiences Collaboration Excellence in Communications Excellence in Communications Excellence in Marketing and Communications: This award recognizes the efforts of a staff member, team or department to promote a particular student program, event or campaign with regards to level of creativity, strength and consistency of message, outreach, and student engagement. Specific criteria: Creative messaging Coordinated strategy Adherence to BC communications standards Advances student awareness and interaction with a particular program or initiative Innovative Use of Social Media Strategy: This award recognizes a staff member, team or department that has demonstrated a thorough understanding of social media and has utilized social media marketing to increase brand awareness and student engagement. Specific criteria: Creativity Evidence of student engagement Coordinated strategy Graduate Assistant Awards Graduate Assistant Awards Excellence in Service Award: This award recognizes the contributions of a Graduate Assistant who works to make procedures, services, facilities, programs, and/or the general Boston College learning environment a welcoming, efficient, and high quality experience for students. The recipient goes above and beyond to enhance students’ experiences at Boston College while thoughtfully balancing educational needs and customer service. Others may comment on the helpfulness, professionalism and assistance of this individual and on his or her willingness to create a positive, active, and inclusive learning community. Specific criteria: Goes above and beyond to create a welcoming environment for students Is actively involved in the academic and/or personal development of students Promotes student development through individual guidance and assistance, along with intentional and effective programming Integrates theories and knowledge gained in the classroom into everyday practice Innovation Award: This award recognizes a Graduate Assistant who demonstrates innovation in developing or enhancing programs and/or services that meet the changing needs of Boston College’s student population. This individual has an ability to problem-solve and be creative with the use of people, resources, budgets, and/or technology. This award celebrates innovation in action—not only the creative idea, but also the impact of the idea on practical application. Specific criteria: Puts forth new, creative initiatives with thoughtful consideration and planning Thinks ‘outside of the box’ and uses his or her ideas to broaden the scope of programs and services in the Division Forward-thinking and willing to thoughtfully challenge tradition in order to create a progressive and engaging environment for both students and staff Living the Mission: This award is given to a Graduate Assistant within the division of student affairs who has been a leader in facilitating student learning and formation and has worked to advance the Jesuit, Catholic values of Boston College. This award recognizes a Graduate Assistant who best exemplifies excellence in providing services or creating programs that help integrate students' intellectual, spiritual, and social realms. Specific criteria: the person embodies the spirit and essence of St. Ignatius, integrates all aspects of the mission, helps students integrate the various aspects of their lives on campus, and shows impact. Specific criteria: The person embodies the spirit and essence of St. Ignatius Integrates all aspects of the mission Helps students integrate the various aspects of their lives on campus Shows impact Back To Top Back To Top Division of Student Affairs Maloney Hall, 4th Floor 617-552-8600 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College