COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Advanced Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateAdvanced Composite Materials All Programs College of Engineering Aerospace Engineering Wichita State’s graduate certificate in advanced composite materials will equip you with knowledge of materials and processes, manufacturing, and structural analysis and design—which you can put to use in your current or future engineering career. Learn how Advanced Composite Materials is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Advanced composite materials students have the opportunity to apply their knowledge to real industry problems in the Robotics and Automation Lab, part of WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR). Curriculum The 12-credit-hour certificate covers the following courses: Manufacturing of Composites Mechanics of Laminated Composites Polymeric Composite Materials Advanced Mechanics of Laminated Composites OR graduate-level directed studies or special topics course in a composites-related area A minimum GPA of 3.0 must be maintained for all certificate courses with no grades below C. Students may apply certificate coursework toward a degree program. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program Successful NASA career started at Wichita State When he was a high school student considering where to go to college, Alex Kanelakos looked for the best opportunity to get an education that provided real, hands-on work in his field. He chose WSU when he learned about its relationship with NASA. To say it worked out well for him is an understatement. After graduating in 2007, Alex immediately got a job at NASA. He now carries one of the heaviest responsibilities at mission control: training space station crew members for space walks in giant swimming pools, then monitoring them in space. Similar Programs Aerospace Engineering (Master's) Biomedical Engineering (Master's) Electrical and Computer Engineering (Master's) Industrial Engineering (Master's) Mechanical Engineering (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©