Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Social Sciences Date July 28, 2021 2021-07-28 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email $3.4 million NIH grant to bolster population science at Brown A five-year award from the National Institutes of Health will advance research at the Population Studies and Training Center, which confronts health inequities, economic divides and other major societal problems. Founded in 1964, the Population Studies and Training Center is now housed inside Mencoff Hall. Photo: Rob Ranney PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — The Population Studies and Training Center at Brown University has been awarded a $3.5 million grant from the National Institutes of Health’s Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. The five-year award will support research within the center, whose 62 affiliated faculty members work across diverse fields of study to understand and address societal problems including health inequities, climate change and economic divides. Susan Short, director of the PSTC and a professor of sociology at Brown, said the award will support research development activities, provide funding for administrative and technical research staff, and help researchers analyze federal data, among other key needs. The funds will help the PSTC advance its research in five focused areas: migration and urbanization; population, development and environment; children, families and health; reproductive health, HIV and AIDS; and the social foundations of health disparities. “Population research has been and will continue to be vital to understanding and improving health and well-being across the globe,” Short said. “Support from the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development has long been critical to the PSTC’s ability to advance population science. A new round of dedicated resources will support this dynamic community of faculty and students as they continue producing high-impact research within and across social science and public health fields.” Founded in 1964, the PSTC is widely recognized for its collaborative community of researchers in anthropology, economics, sociology, health and more. Most recently, PSTC-affiliated faculty have used computer models to shed light on the future of migration caused by sea level rise, analyzed 133 million tweets to uncover the extent to which urban Americans move in segregated circles, and used decades of birth-registry data to discover that infant health inequality is on the rise. Tags Awards and Fellowships Research Related news: Social Sciences Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism April 27, 2022 Frances Haugen told an audience of Brown students, faculty and staff that algorithms governing social media are the root of technology’s challenges — and that social media can be a positive force to keep people connected. Read Article Open details for Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism Social Sciences For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing April 6, 2022 A new study from researchers at the Policy Lab offers important information on when text-message vaccination campaigns work and when they don’t. Read Article Open details for For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing Social Sciences Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize March 25, 2022 The Bradley Foundation’s $250,000 award to Glenn Loury, a professor at Brown, recognizes the scholar’s influential role in promoting viewpoint diversity in academia. Read Article Open details for Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search $3.4 million NIH grant to bolster population science at Brown Open details for $3.4 million NIH grant to bolster population science at Brown Bookmark this Page