Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Research Research About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Research menu Research Topics Home About UNLV Academics Athletics Campus LIfe Diversity Research close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps UNLV Research From heavenly bodies to the human body, our faculty and students are making new discoveries, solving critical problems, and finding ways to help us better understand ourselves and the world around us. Top 3% and Moving Up. UNLV attains highest status as a research university. Top 3% and Moving Up. UNLV attains highest status as a research university. $34M Amount of Research Expenditures in FY20 218 Doctoral Degrees Conferred for 2019-20 1,025 Number of Graduate Assistantships Available in 2019-20 Learn About Our Latest Research The Science Behind Identifying Human Remains The Science Behind Identifying Human Remains The Stewards of a Broken Climate The Stewards of a Broken Climate Medical School Faculty Receive Barrick Distinguished Scholar Awards Medical School Faculty Receive Barrick Distinguished Scholar Awards Mentoring Future Water Experts Mentoring Future Water Experts Astronomers Closer to Unlocking Origin of Mysterious Fast Radio Bursts Astronomers Closer to Unlocking Origin of Mysterious Fast Radio Bursts Rebel Nurse Researchers: Exploring the Science Behind Care Rebel Nurse Researchers: Exploring the Science Behind Care Enhancing Research: Computing Symposium Scheduled March 23-24 Enhancing Research: Computing Symposium Scheduled March 23-24 Research in Brief: Science One Step Closer to "Turning Off" Seizures, Sleep Disturbances Linked to Intellectual Disability Research in Brief: Science One Step Closer to "Turning Off" Seizures, Sleep Disturbances Linked to Intellectual Disability Student Wellness Opens Investigational Drug Service Student Wellness Opens Investigational Drug Service Read More Faculty Researchers Seeking external research funding? Have questions about a research protocol? Looking to collaborate with campus peers or private-sector partners? UNLV’s Division of Research is here to help. Research Student Researchers It’s never too early to launch your research career at UNLV. From robotics to genetics and more, our campus provides a wealth of research opportunities to graduate and undergraduate students alike. Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Community Partners Working with public and private entities fuels research opportunities, generates revenue, creates jobs, diversifies our economy, and drives innovation forward. We welcome you to join us in these efforts. Office of Economic Development "Being a part of space exploration in particular is the most fulfilling thing I’ve ever done. There are so many questions about our universe that we still have to answer, and I believe scientists are acting as pioneers for our survival. I feel, in a way, that I’m contributing to that goal of helping our species survive." Amber Turner, first-generation UNLV geology major and NASA intern Our Research Experts Explore UNLV's searchable directory of faculty experts across more than 144 disciplines. Research Match Interdisciplinary Research at UNLV Innovative solutions can be found when groups of researchers from diverse disciplines and backgrounds approach complex problems together. UNLV fosters interdisciplinary collaborations through thoughtfully designed dedicated facilities, specialized centers and institutes, and other resources it provides. Science & Engineering Building Science & Engineering Building Harry Reid Center Harry Reid Center Centers and Institutes Centers and Institutes University Libraries University Libraries UNLV Innovation UNLV Innovation, our award-winning research magazine, informs readers about a wide variety of real-world problems UNLV researchers are studying and solving. Check Out UNLV Innovation Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV