Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report About Information Technology Services Infused in all aspects of daily life on campus, Information Technology Services supports learning and teaching, research and creative endeavors, outreach, administration and student affairs. The Information Technology Services department functions as the university’s central IT unit, responsible for technologies and services that are used broadly across campus along with diligent IT support. ITS also cooperates with local or collegiate IT units that often offer discipline-specific services and support. ITS employees comprise 24 teams with various focuses, as detailed in the organizational chart below. ITS occupies offices in buildings across campus, including Administrative Services Building, Beardshear, Communications Building, Durham Center and Parks Library. Among its many responsibilities, ITS delivers: Networking services that design and manage campus voice and connectivity services Information security services that protect the integrity of researcher, student and employee data Digital accessibility services that create inclusive digital experiences for users with disabilities Identity services that enable and maintain a variety of university account logins Technology support for faculty, staff and students at the IT Solution Center, located at 192 Parks Library And more. 207 Classrooms with technology supported by ITS 37,482 Questions resolved last year by the IT Solution Center 70,310 Active Net-ID accounts 200,000 Devices seen on the Iowa State network every month Office of the Vice President and Chief Information Officer The Office of the Chief Information Officer at Iowa State University embraces the responsibility to align Information Technology Services with the university’s mission “to create, share and apply knowledge to make Iowa and the world a better place.” The primary role of the CIO is to serve diverse technology needs through the development of core information technology infrastructure and the coordinated delivery of IT services across campus. The CIO also serves as the principal advisor to the president of the university on matters involving information technology. Kristen Constant serves as Vice President and Chief Information Officer at Iowa State University. She holds the rank of Morrill Professor and is the Wilkinson Professor of Interdisciplinary Engineering for Materials Science and Engineering. As CIO, Kristen Constant is committed to promoting inclusivity, transparency, and collaboration within the department and across the university. She also serves as the program co-lead for the WorkCyte program as well as Iowa State’s implementation of enterprise systems including Workday, Salesforce, Okta and ServiceNow. Kristen Constant ITS Organizational Structure The ITS department employs approximately 150 full-time employees, who provide a broad range of IT services to the university. You’ll encounter ITS staff at the IT Solution Center in Parks Library as you seek assistance, but did you know ITS staff are also responsible for ensuring the security of your Iowa State accounts, providing applications for collaboration and learning, monitoring vital systems like Workday, outfitting classroom with audiovisual needs, maintaining network access across all 490 acres of central campus and so much more? With its teams working together, you can count on ITS to delivery technology resources that help you succeed, as a student, researcher, instructor, employee... and always as a Cyclone. University Committees ITS Serves On ADTR - Associate Dean Information Technology Committee ADTR works with associate dean and college IT staff for college-wide IT strategy and policy planning. CASTLE - Committee on the Advancement of Student Technology for Learning Enhancement formerly CAC - Computation Advisory Committee Health Information Privacy Compliance Committee Identity Theft Prevention Committee ITLC - Information Technology Leadership Committee ITLC focuses on central and college IT issues and planning with members from colleges, extension and the university library. Orientation Committee PLAC - Policy Library Advisory Committee Professional & Scientific Reclassification Appeal Committee RMM Student Affairs Advisory Committee TEAC - Technology Enterprise Advisory Committee University Child Care Committee University Committee on Disabilities University Library Advisory Committee Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information