Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subrbi Research Home RBI Home About About RBI History Location & Directions Contact Us Resource Form (GT Login Only) Research Research Services Circular Materials Paper, Packaging and Tissue Bioindustrial Manufacturing and Biorefining • Biobased Products • Chemical Bioprocessing People Leadership Faculty Staff Students Industry Benefits of Membership in RBI Member Companies Services Research Services: Overview Chemical Analysis Testing Corrosion Testing Microscopy Testing Paper, Board, and Box Testing Pulp Analysis Testing Recovery Testing Students Information For Students Paper Science and Engineering Program Master's in Manufacturing RBI Endowed Fellowships Museum News & Events News Events RBI Conferences and Events Newsletter Archive Open Search Search Search Renewable Bioproducts Institute HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Renewable Bioproducts Institute Welcome to RBI Georgia Tech’s Renewable Bioproducts Institute (RBI) champions innovation in converting biomass into value-added products, developing advanced chemical and bio-based refining technologies, and advancing excellence in manufacturing processes. Our three strategic thrusts are circular materials; bioindustrial manufacturing; and paper, packaging, and tissue. The Renewable Bioproducts Institute was formerly named the Institute of Paper Science and Technology. We serve as a campus conduit for industry-university partnerships and provide a portal to Georgia Tech core laboratories, faculty, and students whose work and expertise is focused on biomass, bioproducts, and circular materials. RBI is one of ten campus interdisciplinary research institutes. 2021 Blue Sky Young Researchers and Innovation Award Udita Ringania, a Ph.D. candidate funded by the RBI, won the 2021 Blue Sky Young Researchers and Innovation Award. The award is given by the American Forest & Paper Association (AF&PA) and the International Council of Forest and Paper Associations (ICFPA). Read more >> Decarbonizing the Pulp, Paper and Biorefining Industries: Towards Carbon Neutrality Attendees will learn about cutting-edge developments in life cycle assessment, carbon capture, and energy intensity reduction specifically relevant to the pulp, paper, and biomass processing industries. Free to attend, May 19-20. Register for Workshop >> Professional Master's in Manufacturing Leadership Transform your career with our Professional Master's in Manufacturing Leadership (Online). You'll learn how to propel your organization forward by working on real-world problems to build your skills in operations and personnel management. Learn more >> Bioindustrial Manufacturing and Biorefining Bioindustrial manufacturing and biorefining is focused on biobased products and chemical bioprocessing. Bioproducts research at RBI builds on decades of experience collaborating with pulp and paper manufacturers – extending today into a broad array of industries interested in creating value from forest and agricultural materials. We are also interested in addressing the fundamental and manufacturing challenges for future high margin/high volume products from biomass, with a traditional focus on forest biomaterials. Learn more about our Biobased Products and Chemical Bioprocessing research >> Paper, Packaging and Tissue We continue to explore the seemingly limitless possibilities of paper. From tree to tissue, or to package, or to stationery, magazine or newspaper or thousands of other products—pulping liberates fibers from woody plants and rearranges them into a consistently formed end products. The science rests in efficient processes that conserve energy and raw materials while producing the desired product. Learn more >> Blank Space (Medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Circular Materials Our “Circular Materials” research focuses on polymer-based materials, including composites, with the ultimate goal of identifying materials and/or processes that can minimize the use of non-sustainable resources (fossil fuels) as feedstocks or energy sources. This is a complex challenge that demands a multidisciplinary approach combining fundamental science and engineering to create the necessary materials and technologies to underpin circular systems but also policy and economics to enable society to make the transition to a circular economy. Learn more >> Research Services The research services team was created to oversee all activities related to research services for both internal and external customers. RBI's Testing Services include chemical analysis; corrosion; microscopy; paper, board and box testing; pulp analysis; and recovery. The multidisciplinary capabilities of the team make it uniquely qualified to address customers' technical needs in the areas of process and product development and quality control. Learn more >> Activities and Engagement Report for 2021 RBI's Activities and Engagement Report covering the 2021 calendar year shows impactful research publications, workshops, and supported Ph.D. fellows. There are links in the table of contents to the publications, and title pages of each paper published through RBI. Activities and Engagement Report PDF News Technology Licensing Feature: Using Capillary Foams to Recover Spilled Oil Georgia Tech inventors (Carson Meredith, Sven Holger Behrens, and Yi Zhang) have identified a method that utilizes surfactant-free, oil-tolerant… Marilyn Brown Tapped as First Woman to Receive Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award Marilyn Brown is a world-leading expert on renewable energy and energy efficiency, a transformative intellectual thinker, and one of the founders of… ChBE Professors Win Curriculum Innovation Award Five faculty members in Georgia Tech’s School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (ChBE) shared the 2022 Curriculum Innovation Award presented… More News » Events Sunday June 19 Juneteenth - Campus Closed Campus will close in observance of Juneteenth National Independence Day The day was recognized as a federal holiday on June 17, 2021, when President Joe Biden signed the Juneteenth National… Monday September 5 Labor Day - Campus Closed The Georgia Tech campus will be closed in observance of Labor Day. More Events » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN