Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Contact Information Admissions contacts for Ph.D., M.E., S.M., and A.B./S.M. programs All prospective graduate students apply to our Ph.D., M.E., S.M., and A.B./S.M. programs through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Questions about the application or application requirements? Contact: Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) 617-496-6100 gsas@fas.harvard.edu https://gsas.harvard.edu/about/contact Questions about Financial Aid? Contact: GSAS Office of Financial Aid 617-495-5396 gsasfinaid@fas.harvard.edu Financial Aid FAQs The GSAS Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is open Monday through Friday, 9 am-5 pm, EST. Applicants checking on the status of their application must call 617-496-6100 between 2 pm and 5 pm EST. Specific questions about School of Engineering degree programs? Contact: admissions@seas.harvard.edu We often receive inquiries from students who want to know whether to apply to the program. We cannot predict outcomes without reviewing your completed application. Questions about the Master in Design Engineering (MDE)? Contact: Students apply to the Master in Design Engineering (MDE) through the Graduate School of Design. admissions@gsd.harvard.edu Design Engineering admissions information GSD Admissions Questions about the MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences? Contact: Students apply to the MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences through Harvard Business School (HBS). admissions@hbs.edu Program information Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy