Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Center for Global Tobacco Control Center for Global Tobacco Control Menu Search for: Center Home Research Areas Facilities and Equipment Courses offered in 2019-2020 Academic Year Publications People Collaboration Global Initiatives National Collaborators International Collaborators Cessation Resources Contact Us Mission The Center for Global Tobacco Control aims to foster collaboration—at Harvard and globally—to address issues of tobacco use and control through innovative research, training, and translation of science into public health policies and programs. History Established in July 2010, the Center replaced the former Tobacco Control Research Program in the Division of Public Health Practice. Since 2004, we have brought together a highly-trained research staff to advance a robust agenda of funded research projects in tobacco control. Dr. Vaughan Rees took over leadership of the Center in 2014 and has positioned the Center to play a critical role in evaluating current tobacco control interventions and developing new interventions for the 21st Century. Training The Center is housed within the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences (SBS). Through SBS, we offer the following educational programs: Formal masters of science degrees (ScM), masters of public health degrees (MPH), and doctoral degrees in public health (ScD/PhD). Students take a full range of courses in public health. Through the Center, we also provide opportunities for practica, internships and paid employment in many research projects. The Center currently offers the following courses. The Center offers post-doctoral fellowship training in tobacco control. Knowledge Translation and Global Collaboration The Center collaborates with local municipalities, US states, federal agencies, and foreign governments to develop, implement, and evaluate tobacco control policies and programs through intensive, joint training, research, and policy and program development. We actively work with the governments to implement the recommendations of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC), many of whose measures for public education, clean air policies, taxation, mass media campaigns, and monitoring and surveillance are based on the Massachusetts Program. We bring our practical experience and theoretical knowledge of tobacco control in our work with international partners. We believe that the tobacco control landscape for the 21st Century is rapidly changing with the adoption of the FCTC, the globalization of the industry, and the regulation of tobacco products. As an academic center, we are committed to providing the evidence-based research needed to prevent an estimated one billion deaths from tobacco use in this century. News and Announcements Join us July 25th, 2019, for “Tobacco Control in Taiwan: Roadmap for the 21st Century” — Lunch will be provided! CGTC Director Dr. Vaughan Rees speaks about e-cigarette regulation at The Forum (2015) News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College