Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Majors & Minors Get ready for jobs that don’t yet exist. The nearly unlimited combinations of majors and minors at SMU will put you on the path to success. Because of the flexibility of the SMU Common Curriculum, you can graduate with multiple competencies that employers value. Choose from more than 100 majors and 85 minors, double and triple major opportunities and accelerated degree programs. Go as far as you want to become the person and the professional you aspire to be. Program Degree All Major Minor Type All Arts Business Education Engineering Humanities & Sciences New Popular Distinctive Minors Accounting Major Business More SMU students have the highest pass rate on the CPA Exam in the State of Texas. Accounting majors study the identification, measurement and communication of financial information. They have successful careers in public accounting, industrial accounting, consulting, government and many other fields. SMU’s Master of Science degree in accounting fulfills Texas CPA requirements. Advertising Major, Minor Arts, Popular More Major SMU’s Temerlin Advertising Institute for Education and Research (TAI) will train you to search for unique solutions in advertising. In-depth projects and access to high-profile internships made possible by TAI’s national and global industry connections will prepare you for work in advertising agencies, media firms, corporate marketing departments, design studios and more. Minor The minor in advertising offers an overview of the social, economic, legal and marketing environments in which advertising functions. African and Mexican-American Studies Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More The ethnic studies program offers an interdisciplinary examination of African-American and Mexican-American experiences through the social sciences and humanities. This program provides good preparation for graduate work in the social sciences, the humanities and professional schools, as well as jobs and careers in many fields. Anthropology Major, Minor Humanities & Sciences More Major Anthropologists are able to understand the needs of businesses in other countries. Cultural anthropologists, employed as diversity consultants and cultural analysts, identify potential international markets. Four subfields: archaeology, cultural/social anthropology, anthropological linguistics and physical anthropology Hands-on experience at sites including SMU’s archaeological field school at the SMU-in-Taos campus, New Mexico Minor A 15-hour minor in anthropology is offered in three tracks: archaeology, cultural anthropology and general anthropology; an 18-hour track may be taken in biomedical anthropology. Applied Physiology and Sport Management Majors, Minors Education More Major Formulated on evidence-based practice, courses in the applied physiology and health management concentration of the Simmons School’s Applied Physiology and Sport Management program focus on holistic fitness and health outcomes. With a solid research foundation, you’ll develop the analytical skills necessary to evaluate and properly incorporate research results into professional practice. Minor Requiring 23 credit hours, this minor includes coursework on human anatomy and physiology, biomechanics, nutrition and advanced exercise physiology. Art Majors, Minors Arts More Major Explore and develop art in a challenging environment that rewards experimentation and risk-taking. A wide range of supporting resources includes studio courses in techniques and concepts; well-equipped workshops, galleries and exhibition areas for the public presentation of your art; and lively lectures and seminars by distinguished practitioners, critics and curators. Minor With a brief but serious investigation of studio art, this minor allows students to grow in their understanding of visual imagery and gain confidence in studio practice. It allows students to incorporate more intensive visual studio training with studies in other areas, such as art history or advertising. Art History Majors, Minors Arts More Major At SMU, art history takes an interdisciplinary and intercultural approach to learning. You’ll work closely with faculty in small classes to examine the relationship of art to fields such as anthropology, sociology, music, dance, literature, science and engineering. You’ll learn how to organize and evaluate information, conduct scholarly research and articulate your ideas, and be encouraged to question, probe and think across traditional categories and boundaries. Minor This minor enables all students in the University to extend their study into the realm of the visual arts. As a discipline dedicated to the examination of art in context, art history is a natural complement to a major in history, languages, anthropology, political science, sociology, psychology, philosophy, religion, music or any of the humanities. Biochemistry Majors Humanities & Sciences More Courses in physics, mathematics, chemistry and biology reflect the interdisciplinary nature of modern biochemistry and will prepare you for entrance to the medical field or for graduate study leading to a Ph.D. Biological Sciences Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciencess More Major Study molecular biology, organismal biology and environmental sciences in a hands-on environment that integrates rigorous research in well-funded programs led by top-notch faculty. Earn your combined B.S. and M.S. degrees on our five-year track for a B.S. in biological sciences and an M.S. in molecular and cell biology. Gain summer field experience in environmental science and botany at SMU-in-Taos, our campus in Northern New Mexico. Earn a Ph.D. through BRITE (Biomedical Researchers In Training Experience) Scholars Program research in conjunction with UT Southwestern Medical School Minor Students majoring in other departments may obtain a minor in biological sciences. A student may not earn minors in both biology and the natural sciences, or a minor or a major in biology and environmental science. Biophysical Sciences Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Gain powerful insights in the complexity of life by combining approaches from biology, chemistry, physics and mathematics. If you’re looking for pathways to successful careers in medicine, research or academia, consider this rigorous Bachelor of Science program. It includes the entire SMU pre-health curriculum and additional courses that provide both the solid foundation and the advanced preparation you need to stand out. Business Majors Business More Prepare to become a business leader at SMU’s Cox School of Business. Strategically located in Dallas, a global center for commerce and culture, the Cox School provides strong academics, access to employers and mentors, opportunities for leadership and personal growth and membership in a worldwide alumni network. Business Administration Majors, Minors Business More Undergraduates with majors outside the Cox School may complete the minor in business administration. Requirements include admission to the Cox School through the same admission process as admission to the business majors. Business Analytics and Supply Chain Management Majors Business More This major combines a skill-based business analytics component with a functional supply chain management curriculum focused on business operations and cost-efficient processes, production, and distribution. Graduates will understand how to interpret data, build models, and apply algorithms to solve business problems. Business Energy Management Majors Business More Take advantage of the more than 75 years of combined energy industry work experience that our Cox School of Business faculty bring to the classroom for the energy management concentration. Our recent graduates work at companies such as ExxonMobil, Anadarko, Halliburton and Energy Future Holdings. Business Entrepreneurship Majors Business More The entrepreneurship concentration covers everything from starting a business to managing it as well as marketable skills in the corporate world. Chemistry Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Prepare for a rewarding career and achievements in a variety of fields with solid hands-on research experience in the laboratory. From Ph.D. programs at Harvard, MIT, UC Berkeley, Cornell and Rice to the M.D./Ph.D. program at Baylor Medical School, UT Southwestern Medical School and the University of Wisconsin, our SMU chemistry graduates consistently place in top institutions nationwide. Recent graduates have found employment at Merck, IBM, the EPA and more. The B.S. in environmental chemistry and the B.S. in environmental science are available for students with more specialized interests. The B.S. in chemistry satisfies American Chemical Society certification requirements and prepares students for graduate school and employment in the chemical industry. The reduced course requirements of the B.A. in chemistry make it suitable for a double major, such as chemistry and biology, chemistry and business administration, etc. Minor Students majoring in other departments may obtain a minor in chemistry. At least two of the advanced courses must be taken at SMU. Chinese Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Consisting of 17 term hours, the Chinese minor includes 14 hours of language training and one course in Chinese culture, history or literature. The minor focuses on language proficiency, among the refinement of other skills. Civil Engineering Majors, Minors Engineering More Major Prepare to engage in the planning, design, construction, maintenance and management of the infrastructure of modern society. Whether your interests are in designing smart highways or building space stations, you will gain the skills and the knowledge for promising careers, including leadership positions in a globally competitive world, as well as for advanced studies in engineering, medicine, law, business and public policy. Minor Consult the Environmental and Civil Engineering Department for approval of a minor in civil engineering, which requires a minimum of 15 term credit hours in civil engineering courses. Computer Engineering Majors, Minors Engineering More Major Gain a variety of capabilities and skills with a degree in computer engineering from SMU, including the ability to: Apply knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering to software and hardware design problems Design and conduct experiments and analyze and interpret data related to software and hardware design solutions Function on multidisciplinary teams using current computer engineering tools and technologies Understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic environmental and societal context Minor A student majoring in computer engineering may not minor in computer engineering. Required courses include principles of computer science, programming concepts, assembly language programming and machine organization, data structures, discrete computational structures and digital logic design. Computer Science Majors, Minors Engineering More Major Gain a variety of capabilities and skills with a degree in computer science from SMU, including the ability to: Apply knowledge of computing and mathematics to software design and computing problems Analyze a problem and identify and define computing requirements for a solution Design, implement and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component or program to meet objectives Analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations and society Minor A student majoring in computer science may not minor in computer science. Required courses include principles of computer sciences, programming concepts, data structures and discrete computational structures. Elective courses can be any six hours of CSE courses numbered 3000 or above as approved by the computer science minor adviser. Computer Science with Cyber Security Specialization Majors Engineering More Use engineering to advance the science, policy and application of cyber security to meet some of the most difficult challenges of a global society. Investigate a broad selection of contemporary security issues, including evaluating security threats and reactions, encryption and decryption systems, database security and legal and ethical issues. Computer Science with Game Development Specialization Majors Engineering More From the fundamentals of video game design to game programming and the application of mathematical concepts to real-time 3-D games, the skills gained in this engineering specialization offer promising creative, professional career opportunities. Corporate Communication and Public Affairs Majors Arts More Through coursework across advertising, communication studies and journalism, you’ll gain both the strategic and practical skills necessary to engage in the art and practice of public relations. You’ll also prepare to become a successful communication strategist who pairs writing and technical competency with the ability to develop, coordinate and evaluate strategic communication messages and campaigns across multiple channels and contexts. Creative Computing Majors Arts More Get the skills to be a leader in the digital economy, including in software engineering, mobile applications, interactive Web design, 3-D modeling and animation and social media, in an interdisciplinary program that combines theory and methodology from computer science and engineering (SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering) with aesthetic principles and creative practice from the arts (SMU’s Meadows School of the Arts). Dance Performance Majors, Minors Arts More Major Become a disciplined, versatile artist through professional training in ballet, modern dance and jazz dance at SMU’s Meadows School of the Arts, which ranked No. 6 on the 2014 list of the top 10 colleges for dance performance in the U.S. on ZoomTens and offers both conservatory dance instruction and a liberal arts education. Minor Available to all University students, this minor is designed for those with previous dance training who wish to continue the pursuit of their interest within the context of their liberal arts studies. Data Science Majors, Minors Education, Humanities & Sciences, Arts More Major Today’s world is data-driven. Data science is an exciting field, with its emphasis on using data to describe and understand the world around us. Earth Sciences Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More A two-course geology core serves as the background for this interdisciplinary minor. It is not available to students who are majoring or minoring in the Earth science; it is designed for students heading into the environmental field from other disciplines. Economics Majors Humanities & Sciences More Major Benefit from a program that emphasizes rigorous education in modern methods of economic analysis. The B.A. in economics offers a liberal arts education with an emphasis on economics. The B.S. in economics offers specialized training in economics and a foundation for graduate study in business, economics or law. Minor Students majoring in other departments may obtain either a general minor in economics or a minor in a specialized field (international economics, public economics, labor economics, economic growth and development, econometrics, monetary economics, economics of industrial organization or economics of decision-making). Economics with Finance Applications Specialization Majors Humanities & Sciences More If you’re seeking a career in the financial sector, consider this degree, which combines training in economics with a concentration in areas significant to financial markets. Educational Studies Majors, Minors Education More Major Gain preparation for pursuing teaching careers in the private and public sectors, graduate work in the social sciences and informal education paths in nonprofit organizations. Minor This minor requires 15 hours selected from the courses in the Bachelor of Science in Educational Studies program. Electrical Engineering Majors Engineering More Gain the skills to expand the frontiers of technology in today’s global world as well as for a variety of career opportunities in the high-tech marketplace. Program objectives include training you to: Understand and solve a variety of electrical engineering problems Design a variety of engineering systems, products or experiments Assume leadership and entrepreneurial positions Function and communicate effectively in multidisciplinary teams Electrical Engineering with Biomedical Specialization Majors Engineering More Gain the skills for a variety of career opportunities in the high-tech marketplace. The wide variety of courses at SMU makes it possible for you as an electrical engineering student to concentrate your studies in a specific professional area, such as biomedical engineering – a program that also will enable you to satisfy requirements for admission to medical school. Engineering Majors Engineering More At SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering – where 80 percent of students graduate with professional experience from internships – innovation and hands-on experiences prepare you to make a difference in the world through engineering. English Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Providing a broad liberal education, the course of study is a rich intellectual experience that covers American, British and other literature. You’ll learn how to think and write with clarity to work in a world where good communication is key to every successful endeavor. You’ll also be well prepared to enter government, law, business, public service, the arts, education and other fields requiring high proficiency in written and oral communication and in analytical thinking. Minor The minor in English is available to students who are not pursuing a major in English or a major in English with creative writing. It requires 15 hours of coursework with no more than six of them in courses numbered below 3000. English with Creative Writing Specialization Majors Humanities & Sciences More The English major with a creative writing emphasis will add broad knowledge of literature and the skills of analytic writing and research to your own writing. Craft your words under the guidance of widely published writers in ways that will pay off whether you intend to write novels or run a country. Environmental Engineering Majors, Minors Engineering More Major From wastewater and radioactive materials management to the sustainable development of natural resources, get the skills for promising careers in the dynamic environmental field, including leadership positions in a globally competitive world, as well as for advanced studies in engineering, medicine, law, business and public policy. Minor Consult the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department for approval of a minor in environmental engineering, which requires a minimum of 15 term credit hours in environmental engineering courses. Ethics Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Gain a strong foundation in ethics, along with skills in reasoning, analysis and the critical evaluation of ethical and philosophical issues, positions and arguments. This minor – which can be easily combined with majors or minors in other disciplines – explores questions of value, justice, responsibility and the moral life as well as philosophical treatments of ethics. Ethnic Studies Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major This interdisciplinary program examines the African-American and Mexican-American experiences through the social sciences and humanities, probing the roots of traditions beginning in early African and pre-Columbian cultures as well as examining minorities in contemporary U.S. society. As an ethnic studies major, you can pursue a career in education, law, journalism, urban planning, business, social work, politics and many other fields. African/African-American Studies B.S. and B.A. are offered. Mexican-American Studies B.S. and B.A. are offered. Minor The African and African-American studies minors are each 18 credit hours. The Mexican-American studies minor is 19 credit hours. Fashion Media Majors, Minors Arts More Prepare to enter the growing field of fashion media with career opportunities in journalism, blogging, social media, public relations and event planning, styling and fashion photography. Develop solid writing and critical thinking skills as well as the high-demand digital media skills that will make you competitive in today’s job market. Sharpen your skills in the thriving fashion environment of Dallas and in professional internships. Film and Media Arts – B.A. Majors Arts More Develop your own artistic voice and vision with intensive training and close mentorship in the art of cinema and electronic/digital media. Courses foster individual creativity and imagination while simultaneously developing technical skills (screenwriting, cinematography, editing and sound). Gain practical experience in the field with professional internships. The program includes the opportunity to pursue a senior thesis project. Film and Media Arts – B.F.A. Majors Arts More Develop your own artistic voice and vision with intensive training and close mentorship in the art of cinema and electronic/digital media. Courses foster individual creativity and imagination while simultaneously developing technical skills (screenwriting, cinematography, editing and sound). Gain practical experience in the field with professional internships. The B.F.A. degree requires enrollment in a yearlong thesis film course and completion of a senior thesis project. Finance Majors Business More With this major, you’ll gain skills and expertise in the management of financial resources, including managing corporate funds, evaluating securities and loans and assessing financial markets, to pursue career options such as corporate finance, investment banking, investment analysis and portfolio and bank management. Finance with Alternative Asset Management Specialization Majors Business More Gain expertise in managing alternative assets, including hedge funds, venture capital, private equity, real estate and oil and gas. Apply for admission to this specialization, which is part of the finance major and includes two specific courses in alternative assets and a summer internship, during your junior year at SMU. French Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Make yourself more marketable and versatile in the workplace with a degree in this language spoken worldwide. Becoming fluent in French is not always easy, which is why majoring in French will tell potential employers that you are smart, savvy and hardworking. Minor Choose from courses such as: Business French, Internship in French, French Cinema, African Cinema, The African Novel in French, Immigration in France, Advanced Spoken French, French Civilization and more. Selection University Curriculum requirements can be met upon completion of minor in French. German Majors Humanities & Sciences More Major From beginning German to advanced courses on German literature, culture and film, you can earn a B.A. degree in German with eight advanced courses beyond your second year or a minor with four advanced courses beyond your second year. You can also combine a major or a minor in German with other majors to enhance your academic profile and boost your employment opportunities. Minor The German minor consists of 18 term hours of German and includes required courses on culture, grammar and literature as well as advanced courses. Health and Society Majors Humanities & Sciences More An inter-disciplinary major for students interested in the practice and study of health in global and cultural contexts. Intended to promote a broad understanding of health and its determinants for students planning careers in the health professions. History Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major From courses that explore large areas of human history to thematic courses that examine more closely defined topics and seminars that probe deeply into given areas, this program of study will help you develop critical and analytical skills essential not only to the discipline of history but also to your future career. Minor Students with a general interest in history may pursue a minor by taking 15 semester hours of departmental coursework. Nine semester hours must be taken at the 3000 – 5000 level. Human Rights Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major You’ll be transformed by the knowledge and experiences gained through the Embrey Human Rights Program, whose mission is to educate students and other members of the global community to understand, promote and defend human rights as responsible citizens of the world. You’ll have many opportunities to learn, travel and act for human rights as a student at SMU, the first university in the South, and only the fifth in the country, to offer an undergraduate major in human rights. Minor In addition to completing a minimum of 18 hours of coursework for this minor, you will also be required to commit your effort, time and talent in defense of or in advocacy for human rights. Individualized Studies in the Liberal Arts Majors Humanities & Sciences More The individualized studies in the liberal arts major allows you to design your own interdisciplinary program of study if you want to pursue fields of inquiry in a unique combination not currently offered as a program in the curriculum. International Studies Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Interdisciplinary programs of study are designed to give you the expertise you need in the politics, economics, history, language and cultures of societies other than your own to succeed in an international career. Course work in the social sciences, business, language and the humanities will give you the foundation for this expertise as well as in-depth knowledge about specific geographical areas. Minor The minor in international studies requires 15 hours of coursework from the basic curriculum, nine of which must be in courses at the 3000 level or above. Italian Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More The minor in Italian focuses on strengthening the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) and linguistic proficiency within the context of studying contemporary Italian movies and culture. It includes computer, video and audio assignments. Journalism Majors Arts More Gain expertise to succeed in the rapidly evolving world of multimedia journalism, learning the basic skills and conventions of broadcast, print and digital journalism, while retaining the core ethics and values of the craft. Management Majors Business More Learn more about effective behavior at both the managerial and organizational level by understanding how individuals, groups and organizations behave and interact and the complex global environment in which firms operate. SMU graduates in this major have been employed in management positions with American Airlines, HP, Mobil and many other corporations. Management Science Majors Engineering More Also termed “the science of better,” management science is the discipline of applying advanced analytical methods to help make better decisions. You’ll learn how to apply the same systems-oriented, mathematically based models used in engineering within organizations and their operations, including how to design and manage efficient systems for goods and services. Marketing Majors Business More Learn about facilitating exchanges between businesses and consumers and other marketing activities based on a solid foundation of understanding consumers. Markets and Culture Majors Humanities & Sciences More Gain an understanding of the multiple institutions and cultures that shape the world’s markets through interdisciplinary study in the social sciences and the humanities. Explore the economic principles of markets, the values and history of commerce and the motives and myths that move people. Broaden your classroom experience with internships and study abroad. Mathematics Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Our particular strengths in computational and applied mathematics will give you the proficiency to succeed in a wide range of careers. The B.S. in mathematics is for you: if you are considering a career that involves analytical problem-solving or want to pursue graduate studies in math if you want a second major to complement your primary interest in computer science, economics, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, management science, physics or chemistry The B.A. in mathematics is for you: if you need a traditional mathematics degree that can lead to careers in teaching, industry, business and government if you want a second major to complement your primary interest in the social sciences, business, the humanities or fine arts Minor This minor is available to students who are not seeking the B.A. or B.S. in mathematics and consists of 18 hours of mathematics courses. Mechanical Engineering Majors Engineering More Learn the fundamentals of science and engineering, the practical aspects of mechanical engineering and essential entrepreneurial know-how in small classes that foster strong mentoring and academic excellence. You’ll also learn how to apply creative knowledge to solve critical problems in many areas, including bioengineering; construction; design and manufacturing; electronics; energy; medicine; national security and defense; robotics and automation; and even space travel and exploration. Mechanical Engineering with Biomedical Specialization Majors Engineering More Learn how to apply creative knowledge to solve critical problems in many areas, including bioengineering; energy; medicine; robotics and automation; and even space travel and exploration. The biomedical specialization will enable you to satisfy requirements for admission to medical or dental school as well as the requirements for your degree in mechanical engineering. Mechanical Engineering with Management and Entrepreneurship Specialization Majors Engineering More Learn how to apply creative knowledge to solve critical problems in many areas, including bioengineering; energy; medicine; robotics and automation; and even space travel and exploration. The engineering management and entrepreneurship specialization will enable you to gain skills in financial analysis, corporate management, transferring ideas to the marketplace, leadership and more. Medieval Studies Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major The program offers a classically liberal arts education within a broad subset of Western and non-Western contexts and preparation for preprofessional training in multiple fields, such as business, religious studies, biology, music theory and world languages and literatures. Minor This minor requires the completion of 15 hours from selected courses, including at least three interdisciplinary and nine advanced hours. Individual student programs are approved by the Director of Medieval Studies. Music Majors, Minors Arts More Major Prepare for success with conservatory-level music experiences within a strong liberal arts education. Twenty-seven percent of this degree program is elective credits, making it possible for you to double or triple major or pursue a broad array of minors. This means you can complete pre-health, pre-law, engineering, business, computer science or other programs in conjunction with a well-rounded music degree. Minor The minor in music is designed to meet one of two objectives: satisfy the artistic aspiration of students from any major who have some background and experience in music or be an alternative to the rigorous course of study required for the major in music for those students who do not aspire to a musical career. Music Composition Majors Arts More Develop technical, stylistic and artistic excellence through real-world, professional experiences needed for the different careers open to today’s composer. Music Education with Texas Teacher Certification Majors Arts More Prepare for a teaching career in early childhood through 12th grade music programs with conservatory-level music experiences, research-proven teaching methodologies and a strong liberal arts education with practical experiences. Music Performance Majors Arts More Prepare for a performance career and for private studio teaching in a program that provides a balanced performance curriculum of orchestral excerpts and solo and chamber repertoire, along with performance in both orchestra and wind ensembles. Music Therapy Majors Arts More Benefit from an interdisciplinary approach that develops knowledge in music theory, history and performance while providing focused training in music therapy, research and psychology. Six clinical practicum placements will prepare you for a variety of internships, jobs and client populations. Philosophy Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Develop skills of analysis and reasoning, an understanding of arguments and viewpoints, critical evaluation of varied perspectives and clear written and oral communications. These critical thinking skills developed in the major and minor benefit students in many disciplines and are especially useful as preparation for law school. Minor This minor requires at least 15 semester hours of selected coursework in philosophy, including at least 9 hours in advanced courses at the 3000 level or above. Physics Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major As you engage in the study of space, time, energy and matter, you’ll be inspired to ask and try to answer the deepest questions about the universe. The Department of Physics at SMU offers a program consisting of course studies in broad areas of classical and modern physics and research studies in both experimental and theoretical physics. Minor A minor in physics is particularly appropriate for majors in prehealth, prelaw, Earth science, biology, mathematics and engineering. The departmental requirement for a minor in physics is 17 semester hours from selected physics coursework. Political Science Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major A uniquely broad curriculum covers the United States, Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. Our graduates have gone on to law school; to graduate programs in political science and international or area studies; journalism; M.B.A. programs; and to the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of Defense. Learn about international politics, domestic and international political economy, executive and legislative politics and constitutional law. Study with nationally visible faculty. Pursue internships in Washington, D.C. Engage in research projects. Meet and interact with diplomats and other experts in international relations. Minor SMU’s Political Science Department offers four minor concentrations, including a minor in political science offering general coverage of the discipline. It is appropriate for those seeking a secondary teaching field. Pre-Health Majors Humanities & Sciences More The program serves students throughout the University, regardless of majors chosen. Pre-health students major in a variety of disciplines and pursue admission to dental, medical, optometry, pharmacy, physical therapy, physician assistant and veterinary medicine programs. Pre-Law Majors Humanities & Sciences More The opportunity to fill your undergraduate curriculum with broad, diverse and academically rigorous courses and demonstrate your mental discipline and intellectual curiosity offers excellent preparation for law school and a successful legal career. In addition, you’ll also develop valuable professional skills such as the ability to write clearly, reason logically and analyze creatively. Psychology Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major SMU ranked No. 1 among the top 10 colleges with the highest paid psychology graduates in College Factual 2014. Gain transferable skills and preparation for career success. Think like a researcher. Collect, analyze and interpret information. Draw scientific conclusions. Build interpersonal oral and written communication skills. Successfully compete for admission to law school, health professions and other graduate/professional programs. Follow career paths in research and academia; psychological services (therapy, counseling, testing); business (advertising, marketing, real estate, social media, media relations, public affairs, human resources); and teaching and coaching. Minor This minor requires 18 hours of coursework. You must take Introduction to Psychology (PSYC 1300, minimum grade of C- or higher) before declaring Psychology as your minor. Additional requirements cover selected coursework in research methods, developmental psychology, abnormal psychology and more. Public Policy Majors Humanities & Sciences More An interdisciplinary program in economics and political science, the major in public policy will give you the analytical skills and the historical context to understand and deal with contemporary policy issues. It is useful preparation for careers in government and business as well as for postgraduate study in law, public policy and the social sciences. Real Estate Majors Business More Combining the study of finance and real estate, this major will help you develop special competency in real estate law, transactions and valuation techniques and an in-depth understanding of mortgage markets. Recent graduates have chosen careers in real estate appraisal, development and management and commercial lending. Religious Studies Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Courses explore the development, practices and beliefs of different religions and emphasize analytical skills, critical reflection, persuasive argumentation and strong writing. This academically rigorous program will help you develop a global perspective, sensitivity to cultural diversity and a strong liberal arts background for success in graduate studies and careers in fields such as law, education, social services, medicine, ministry and business. Minor Students majoring in other departments or schools may obtain a minor in religious studies by completing 15 term hours in the department. Nine hours must be completed in courses numbered at the 3000 level or above. Risk Management and Insurance Majors Business More The industry-supported curriculum of this major will help you build a foundation in the theory of insurance economics and specialized technical information in insurance company operations, reinsurance, insurance law and contracts, employee benefits and enterprise risk management. Sociology Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Gain a competitive advantage in fields that rely on social research with courses on research design, data analysis and social theory and by developing an understanding of domestic and international social conditions. Career options include: Business (marketing research, human resources, personnel management, industrial relations, public relations, sales) Human services (nonprofits) Government (policy analysis, program evaluation, urban planning) Minor This minor requires 15 credit hours, including completion of the Introduction to Sociology course on the sociological approach to understanding human behavior and additional higher-level courses. Spanish Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Learn how to speak and write Spanish with proficiency, study abroad in a Spanish-speaking country and take recommended electives outside the Spanish area. Minor The Spanish minor has different requirements depending on the student’s experience with the Spanish language. All minors must take 18 term hours of advanced and/or intermediate courses. Sport Management Majors Education More The sport management concentration of the Simmons School’s Applied Physiology and Sport Management program draws on successful business theories and principles, significant research and practices from organization and information management systems, including budgeting, accounting, advertising, fundraising and managing events, personnel and facilities, to prepare management professionals for the increasing complexity of the business of sports. Sport Performance Leadership Majors Education More The sport performance leadership concentration of the Simmons School’s Applied Physiology and Sport Management program offers academic and experiential training pertinent to the leadership and instruction of sports. Statistical Science Majors, Minors Humanities & Sciences More Major Become a highly marketable graduate who can take advantage of the accelerating demand for specialists trained in data collection and analysis and prepared to harness the explosion of data from devices such as sensors, cell phones and medical instruments, as well as from business processes, surveys and social media. Minor Requiring at least 15 term hours, this minor is a valuable complement to majors in the natural or social sciences, engineering or business. It will enhance career opportunities for students planning careers that involve the collection, processing, description and/or analysis of quantitative information. Theatre (Audition Required) Major Arts More Explore your potential as an actor, director, designer, stage manager or playwright in an intensive study of theatre within a strong liberal arts context while building a foundation of knowledge, skills and critical perspective for a lifelong engagement with your art. Women's and Gender Studies Minors Humanities & Sciences More This interdisciplinary minor, which complements a variety of majors and minors, emphasizes the intellectual, artistic, political and social contributions of women and extends into a broader range of issues, including the social and cultural meanings of masculinity and the relationships between gender, sexuality and sexual identity. World Languages and Literatures Majors Humanities & Sciences More Major in French, German or Spanish or specialize in two world languages to receive the B.A. degree. Take your pick of minors in nine languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Russian and Spanish. Request Information Loading... Close Menu 0 Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search