Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Business Management Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Business Management Major Apply Visit Request More Info Business Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Business Management Bachelor of Business Administration Develop your leadership, management, and creative innovation skills while building a strong foundation in business with a Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Management in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. The Business Management degree program is ideal for both students preparing to enter the workforce and working professionals. It offers a broad curriculum, providing undergraduates with the foundational principles they need to pursue more specialized areas of business. Business Management students have the opportunity to learn from industry-leading faculty and members of the business community; engage in cutting-edge research; be part of student professional organizations within the business school; and earn valuable, real-world experience through Fox’s Center for Student Professional Development. All of this allows students in the Business Management BBA program to develop invaluable business skills such as critical thinking and analysis, effective communication, ethical decision-making, team building, creating innovation within organizations, and negotiation techniques. You’ll have several options for completing your bachelor’s degree, including an accelerated program, in addition to an array of minors and certificates in your areas of interest. 4+1 Program The Fox School’s rigorous 4+1 program gives undergraduate students a head start on their master’s degree. Students interested in the accelerated program apply spring semester of their sophomore year; use 12 credits of elective space to take graduate courses during their junior and senior years, while taking advantage of undergraduate tuition rates; complete the remaining credits for the master’s in the year following undergraduate graduation; and earn an undergraduate and master’s degree in just five years. The program is available to students in the following areas. Actuarial Science Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Management Business Analytics Human Resource Management IT Auditing and Cyber Security Learn more about the Fox School’s 4+1 program. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Classes & Curriculum Students in the Business Management program must complete the following required courses, among others. Power, Influence and Negotiation Communicating in Organizations Intrapreneurship in the 21st Century Critical Skills for Effective Managers In addition, students select electives based on their areas of interest. Learn more about required courses for the Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Management program. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Business Administration PhD Business Analytics MS Financial Analysis MS Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Human Resource Management MS Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Human Resource Management Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following three SPO Temple University chapters are recommended for Business Management BBA students. The National Society of Leadership and Success is the nation's largest leadership honor society. It provides a step-by-step program for members to build their leadership skills through participation at their campus or online. Membership is for life and provides access to benefits including scholarships and awards, exclusive on-campus events, employer recruitment through an online job bank, and more. DECA prepares emerging leaders for careers in marketing, finance, hospitality and management in colleges around the globe. The mission of the Professional Sales Organization is to help students of all majors develop a core business competency in the the ability to influence. It provides members with access to a dozen corporate speakers each semester to learn real-world influence techniques. The following clubs are also available to Business Management BBA students in the Fox School of Business. The Art of Business/Business of Art is a student professional organization offering students who are interested in art, business and the combination of these fields the opportunity to work together and experience peer-to-peer development. The goal of this organization is to teach and practice income-earning business skills. The Business Honors Student Association provides an opportunity for honors students of any business major to take part in various social and pre-professional events. The College Council oversees all Fox organizations and activities. College Council also serves as a liaison between organizations and the university, particularly the Dean’s office. The Fashion and Business Club is the perfect club for students interested in learning how the two industries overlap. Members have the opportunity to see guest speakers, attend fashion events, and learn the ins and outs of the Philadelphia fashion scene. The mission of Fox Net Impact is to improve the world by growing and strengthening a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive net social, environmental and economic impact. Phi Beta Lambda is Temple University’s chapter of the Future Business Leaders of America, which offers students the leadership opportunities, professional development tools and personal connections necessary to launch a successful career. The chapter is open to all majors. Student CPT provides an interactive environment where ethical behaviors and ideas can flourish, bringing in high-caliber guest speakers to engage about ethical leadership in business. Toastmasters, or the Fox Professional Speakers organization, invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-BMGT-BBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Business Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info