Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Science and Technology Studies Graduate Science and Technology Studies Graduate Graduate Certificate Program in Science, Technology, and Society The graduate certificate program enables graduate students already enrolled in PhD programs at Brown to develop methodological and theoretical expertise and credentials in the interdisciplinary field of science and technology studies while fulfilling the graduate requirements of their degree-granting department. It will give students the opportunity for advanced training in the field; provide them with specialized professional training in Science, Technology, and Society; and foster a community of scholars dedicated to the study of the intersections of science and society and other related methodologies, such as critical race studies, cultural studies, legal theory, psychoanalytic theory, as well as more traditional disciplinary methods. Certificate Requirements The requirements for Certificate Program include coursework, and the presentation of a paper in our Graduate Student Colloquium. 1. Courses (3 total) Courses must be completed with at least a grade of B in each course and include: • Core Course in STS: Students may meet this requirement through participation in a graduate section of SCSO 1000 “Introduction to Science Studies” or with an STS approved graduate seminar, like HI 2981F “The Politics of Knowledge.” • Two additional courses with significant STS content, selected in consultation with the Director of STS. At least one of these should come from outside the students home department. 2. STS reading group At least two years of regular attendance and participation in an STS graduate reading group, which will meet with a faculty organizer about once a month, at least six times a year, to discuss a book, a related series of articles or to hear and respond to STS final projects. 3. Research presentation Presentation of a final project—an STS related dissertation chapter, conference presentation or other article-length paper—at the STS graduate reading group. 4. STS course design Developing a sample syllabus for an STS themed course, which may be included in applications for positions. Application Applications for the STS Graduate Certificate Program are now available on UFunds. Home Faculty Undergraduate Courses Graduate Current Graduate Students Readings Resources News STS Colloquium Series Print this Page Share this Page Program in Science, Technology, and Society Brown University Box 1868 67 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-7034 Fax 401-863-7589 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Undergraduate Science and Society DUG ASK (Advising Sidekick) Focal Point Science Center Connect Facebook Twitter