Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links CSF Menu Main Nav Center for Student Formation Contact Back Back Close About Overview Resources Undergraduate Programs Overview Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend Ascend Lead Profiles AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Leadership Positions Collaborations Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Compass Mentoring Program Home Undergraduate Programs Compass Mentoring Program Undergraduate Programs Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Through the Compass Mentoring Program, incoming first-year AHANA students can connect with upperclass mentors, develop friendships, and gain a strong sense of community as they navigate their first semester of college. apply to be a compass participant Completing your Compass journey East Establish your foundation The virtual Opening Ceremony on September 11 focuses on bringing together all members of the Compass community to meet, bond, and kick off the program! The Opening Ceremony is the first requirement of the Compass Mentoring Program as you embark on this semester-long journey of “Finding Your Direction at BC.” South Secure a relationship As the next part of your semester-long journey with Compass, you will secure a relationship by meeting 1:1 with your mentors. These meeting will be a casual opportunity to speak with your mentor about your fears, excitements, goals as you transition to Boston College, and more. Your mentors will schedule this meeting with you based on your availability. Additionally, you will also engage in random 1:1s with members of your small group to continue to build on relationships you form in your weekly group meetings! North Nurture your community Mentees are required to participate in weekly small group meetings facilitated by their co-mentors for 12 weeks starting the week of Sept 12th. Time and date of these meetings will be determined by the small group and based on everyone's availability. West Widen your horizon In order to help Mentees widen their horizon at BC, Compass participants are required to participate in at least two (2) of the semi large programming hosted by the program. For more information on when these programs are hosted, please visit the monthly program calendar at the bottom of the page. If on the bottom of the Compass logo you can indicate when the application will go live and close that would be great! Application will open on June1st and close on July 31st. Compass Mentoring Testimonials "I always had someone to talk to and felt like I had someone I could go to for help" "I felt very supported! I was more connected to the AHANA+ community and given a fun little family!" "The Compass Program allowed me to feel more at home on campus." "I learned a lot about the changes to come, and it helped ease my concerns on said changes." "It was a place where I could ask for advice on experiences that I was new to, and have honest conversations with my mentors about the realities, struggles, and successes one faces in college." Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Formation 90 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-6140 About Undergraduate Programs Leadership Positions Collaborations Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College