Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Speech, Language and Hearing Science MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Speech, Language and Hearing Science MA Apply Request More Info Speech, Language and Hearing Science MA Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Speech, Language and Hearing Science The Master of Arts in Speech, Language and Hearing Science at Temple’s College of Public Health is a clinical professional degree that prepares students to become speech-language pathologists. Through rigorous clinical training, students learn to evaluate, diagnose and treat communication disorders. You will be exposed to a wide range of disorders and gain experience with ethnically diverse populations and individuals across the lifespan. Speech-language pathology involves the study and treatment of a broad range of speech, language, social communication and cognitive-communication disorders. These may include developmental delays and disorders such as autism, apraxia of speech, dyslexia and stuttering. Graduates of the program are prepared to work as speech-language pathologists in a wide range of clinical sites, including hospitals, other inpatient and outpatient settings, private practices, rehabilitation centers, and schools. Completing this program will make you eligible to apply for membership in the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. What sets apart our Speech, Language and Hearing Science MA? A high-profile program: Our program achieves consistent recognition as one of the premier programs of its kind, and our graduates have consistently gone on to significant careers throughout the U.S. and abroad. Extensive clinical placements: Our program has more than 80 clinical affiliate sites across the Philadelphia region. Students can also perform supervised clinical research in Temple’s Speech-Language-Hearing Center and other on-campus locations. Renowned faculty: Our faculty are recognized experts in aphasia, apraxia, bilingualism, child language processes and problems, and effects of brain damage on language function, among other research areas. Program Format If you have a bachelor’s degree in Communications Sciences and Disorders, you will be able to graduate in two years by including two summer sessions. If you do not have a bachelor’s degree in Communications Sciences and Disorders, you may complete the degree in three years by including two summer sessions. Many students choose to pursue the interests they develop in clinical and research experiences through a master’s thesis. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Master’s students can seek program support from Lisa Bedore Interim Graduate Program Director Email: lisa.bedore@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Students who are interested in pursuing a research-intensive doctoral degree may apply to the Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD program. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations at the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-SPLH-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Speech, Language and Hearing Science MA Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info