Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Public Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Global Health Top Stories What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Pediatrics Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Mental Health Major Uptick in Cannabis Vaping Reported Among Adolescents Vaping is becoming an increasingly popular way among youth to use cannabis, a trend that is concerning because of the high levels of THC delivered through vaping devices. Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West Demographically younger nations have a higher aging burden than previously thought and need new policies to prevent large numbers of people from leaving the workforce due to ill health. Latest News Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship Achievements April 12, 2022 Mailman School of Public Health Dean Linda P. Fried has received an Association of American Physicians’ medal in recognition of her groundbreaking contributions to the science of healthy aging. Uranium Detectable in Two-Thirds of U.S. Community Water System Monitoring Records April 7, 2022 Using community wastewater surveillance records, Columbia public health researchers found that Hispanic neighborhoods had the highest levels of uranium, selenium, barium, chromium, and arsenic. Study Examines Disparities in Air Pollution Affecting American Indian Communities March 24, 2022 A new study from Mailman researchers is the first to detail the extent of particulate air pollution in rural, American Indian communities and its potential health consequences. Only 1 in 4 Receive Medication for Opioid Use Disorder March 23, 2022 Despite strong evidence that medication is the most effective treatment for opioid use disorder, only one in four people in need receive it, a Columbia study reports. Topic Mental Health Hurricanes Linked to Rise in U.S. Deaths in Months After Storms March 9, 2022 Mailman study reveals post-storm rise in deaths from injuries, infectious disease, respiratory disease, heart disease, and neuropsychiatric disorders as hidden cost of climate-related disasters. Preparing a Pandemic Response for All New Yorkers March 4, 2022 Columbia has helped launch New York City’s new Pandemic Response Institute, which will develop an equitable crisis response that doesn’t leave people behind. Topic Infectious Diseases Computer Modeling: Anticipating Rise and Fall of Pandemic’s Waves March 4, 2022 Computer models have helped anticipate COVID’s peaks and troughs, but models have a “cone of uncertainty” and much about the future of the pandemic remains unknown. Topic Infectious Diseases Palliative Care Services Vary by U.S. Region, Population March 3, 2022 Black and Hispanic nursing home residents are more likely than their white counterparts to live in facilities that provide fewer palliative care services, a study from Columbia Nursing shows. Topic Nursing Management Companies, Private Equity, and the Price of Anesthesia March 1, 2022 Prices paid to anesthesia practitioners increased after hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory surgery centers contracted with a physician management company, a new study finds. Use of Epidural in Childbirth Is Linked to Decreased Severe Maternal Morbidity February 22, 2022 Epidurals lessen the risk of postpartum hemorrhaging, the leading cause of preventable severe maternal morbidity, according to a new study from Columbia University. Topic Women's Health Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top