Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Academics J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Join the next generation of leading legal scholars. The Doctor of the Science of Law (J.S.D.), Columbia Law’s most advanced law degree program, prepares students with exceptional academic aptitude for careers in legal scholarship. The program fosters opportunities for distinguished scholarship through advanced seminars and colloquia, facilities for independent research, and guidance from faculty advisers. Columbia Law J.S.D. students benefit from Columbia University’s abundant resources, world-class faculty, and commitment to cultivating a richly diverse and intellectually curious scholarly community. Related Links J.S.D. Admissions Current J.S.D. Candidates J.S.D. Funding Year One: Residency at Columbia Year Two Through Completion of the J.S.D. Defense and Fulfillment of the J.S.D. Degree J.S.D. Student Life Year One: Residency at Columbia During the fall term, the chairperson for each J.S.D. candidate will determine a study plan and milestones for research and writing deliverables. The chairperson for each J.S.D. candidate will approve the study plan and determine whether the J.S.D. candidate has met such milestones. For each successive year, the candidate shall include the next year’s study plan in the annual Dissertation Progress Report (see below for more information). Each J.S.D. candidate’s advisory committee will consist of three full-time faculty members, one of whom will be the candidate’s chairperson. As part of the application process, the J.S.D. candidate identifies, communicates with, and obtains the agreement of Columbia Law professors to serve as chair and members of the advisory committee. Refer to the Application Process section for more information. J.S.D. candidates typically do not register for other classroom work, though they are free to audit any course or seminar pertinent to their area of study with the instructor’s consent. In consultation with their chair, candidates will undertake substantial preliminary research to determine the scope of their proposed dissertation. While they must take the initiative in consulting with their advisory committee chair, the advisory committee decides whether, and how many, formal meetings to hold each year. The candidate is encouraged to seek meetings with their advisory committee on a regular basis. At a later stage, the advisory committee will become the examination committee. Year Two Through Completion of the J.S.D. All J.S.D. degree requirements must be fulfilled within six years. Under certain extenuating circumstances and pending approval by the committee chair, upon submission by the candidate of a petition detailing those circumstances, the Graduate Committee Chair may extend this period by one year and the Graduate Committee by an additional year. The maximum extension to be approved is two years. After candidates complete the required academic year of full-time study and research in residence at the Law School, they may extend their residence for one additional year. Candidates may pursue other commitments while they are out of residence, but they will be expected to continue working on their J.S.D. research simultaneously. Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) will be assessed at the end of each academic year for J.S.D. candidates. J.S.D. candidates must demonstrate satisfactory progress toward completion of the dissertation in the annual Dissertation Progress Report (DPR). Candidates shall submit a detailed report of their research, writing, and professional activities at the end of each academic year to the Office of Graduate Degree Programs. This report must be certified by the candidate’s chair and the chair must confirm that the candidate is making adequate progress each academic year. Defense and Fulfillment of the J.S.D. Degree The J.S.D. degree is awarded to students who complete an approved program of study, research, and writing with distinction. To earn the degree, candidates must, within six years of enrollment in the program: Complete a minimum of one academic year of full-time study and research in residence at the Law School, where they will be provided with a workspace. Submit a dissertation (either one unified work or a set of three articles). Pass an oral defense of the dissertation. Complete any necessary revisions of the dissertation, as required by the candidate’s advisory committee. Dissertation Defense and Grading Once a candidate’s J.S.D. research and writing is complete, the candidate, in consultation with her advisory committee, will establish a time for her defense. Upon satisfactory defense of the dissertation, the relevant advisory committee will notify the Office of Graduate Degree Programs, who will help the candidate prepare her dissertation for deposit with the University’s Dissertation Office. The candidate will then receive the degree upon the University’s next degree conferral date (degrees are awarded in February, May, and October of each year). Candidates will not receive grades for academic work, only a transcript notation signifying whether or not their work was of doctoral caliber. Termination J.S.D. candidates are subject to termination at any time by the Graduate Committee, which may act upon the advice of colleagues most familiar with their work. In case of termination, candidates may be permitted to continue in residence until the end of the academic year as a Special Student (non-degree status). J.S.D. Student Life The J.S.D. student experience is designed to help J.S.D.s get to know each other, their faculty advisors, our Academic Fellows, and to immerse J.S.Ds. in the Law School and University community. Noteworthy aspects of the J.S.D. experience include: Professional Development and Networking Opportunities to attend Faculty workshops Workshops for the J.S.D. community, with topics often suggested by J.S.D. candidates Coffee Chats with the Office of Graduate Degree Programs (“OGP”) Law School community events and programs Software Access and Resources J.S.D. students have access to extensive Law School resources. J.S.D.s are encouraged to let OGP know if they require other resources for their research. Workspace J.S.D. students in New York City should contact OGP if they need a workspace during their tenure. Childcare/Work Life Support Some J.S.D. students are eligible to take advantage of childcare and elder care services through Bright Horizons while they are in residence. Interested J.S.D. students should contact OGP for more information. Health Insurance OGP has collaborated with the Financial Aid Office to create a table which outlines the items covered during each year of the J.S.D. Program. Other Initiatives OGP and the Graduate Committee are continually seeking ways to provide additional support and resources to our J.S.D. community. A few examples of conversations that are currently underway are: Assistance with Columbia Grant Opportunities Academic Contribution to Columbia Law School Engagement with Faculty and Global Centers Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.