Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Research Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Tree Ring Lab "Silent though they are, the trees, it turns out, can speak volumes. The size, density, anatomy and chemistry of each ring reflect the environmental conditions in the year in which it grew. So like ancient scribes, long-lived trees can sensitively record the environmental history of a given place and time." Gordon Jacoby, Co-Founder, LDEO Tree Ring Lab Tree Ring Lab scientists are dedicated to expanding the use and application of tree-ring research around the world to improve our understanding of past climate and environmental history. Current research concentrates on the use of tree-ring data networks to study regional climate, global climate teleconnections, and anthropogenic impacts on forest growth. Exploring new species in new regions, building collaborations around the world, and developing new quantitative techniques, Tree Ring Lab researchers are committed to advancing dendrochronology and paleoclimatology, as well as the ethic of good science. Tree Ring Lab Principal Investigators Laia Andreu-Hayles Brendan Buckley Edward Cook Rosanne D’Arrigo Drought Atlases Drought atlases are extensive, centuries-long records of wet and dry periods for a given region, derived from the data contained in tree rings. Ed Cook and his colleagues published the first of these, the North American Drought Atlas (2004), followed by the Monsoon Asia Drought Atlas (2010), and the Old World Drought Atlas (2015), Eastern Australia and New Zealand Drought Atlas (2015), and South American Drought Atlas (2020). Subsequent studies building on the atlases have yielded new insights into how droughts may have adversely affected past civilizations, and the increasingly apparent role of human-induced warming on modern climate. Scientists across a range of research disciplines use drought atlases to improve understanding of climate phenomena, determine patterns of climate variability back in time, and improve predictions of future climate scenarios. Drought atlases provide critical information to governments for decision-making and policy, as well as to those working in finance, industry, and non-governmental organizations on matters related to water, the environment, and sustainability. Historians also find drought atlases to be extremely useful, too. Through research at Lamont, we’ve learned there is an association between both the rise and the fall of certain civilizations and peoples and variations in wetness and dryness. Tree Ring Lab Research News Learning From Tree Rings: An Interview With Nicole Davi Megadrought in Southwest Is Now the Worst in at Least 1,200 Years, Study Confirms New Way of Analyzing Tree Rings Confirms Unprecedented Central Asia Warming New York City's Hidden Old-Growth Forests Future Brahmaputra River Flooding as Climate Warms May Be Underestimated, Study Says Rooftop Camera Will Track How Local Forests Change With the Climate Europe’s ‘Great Famine’ Years Were Some of the Soggiest in Centuries Tree Rings Show Unprecedented Rise in Extreme Weather in South America Rosanne D’Arrigo: Decoding The History of Climate Cycles, One Tree Ring At A Time Climate-Driven Megadrought Is Emerging in Western U.S., Says Study The Secret Life of Trees Using Tree Ring Records to Decode Earth’s Climate History More Research Stories History of the Tree Ring Lab The Lab’s tree ring work in the U.S. Southwest documents a history of drought. Ed Cook (above) published a landmark paper in 2004 describing past megadroughts that extended for hundreds of years. Later work with bristlecone pines tracked 1,100 years of El Nino/La Nina fluctuations. Photo: Paul Krusic Learn more about the Tree Ring Lab's history. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close