Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO Research Information Technology Velos eResearch AAA Velos eResearch Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Velos eResearch Clinical Trials Management Software Our Objective To provide clinical researchers and study staff with user-friendly technology infrastructure for managing studies, tracking subjects, and facilitating analysis, while maintaining the privacy and safety of participants. Access Velos eResearch Please note that you must complete a Velos eResearch Access Request (Internet Explorer or Safari browsers only) to log into this application. For Chrome and other browser users, please right click the link above and select "Save link as..." to download the form onto your computer. Velos eResearch Secure Login →Velos eResearch Training Site What is Velos eResearch? Velos eResearch is a web-based clinical research management application that is designed specifically for investigators and their research teams. Velos eResearch supports processes for patient recruitment, patient scheduling, budgeting, invoicing, and milestone management, data safety monitoring, adverse event reporting, system integration, data collection and study execution. Velos eResearch allows all study-related information to be centralized and can be accessed from anywhere, anytime. Password-protected, the account is accessible only to authorized personnel. It is easy to use, reliable and completely secure. What are the advantages of Velos eResearch? Entirely web-based, accessible from any browser No new username and password, uses CaneID Coordinates multi-site studies Fully-auditable, supports 21 CFR Pt 11 compliance Focuses on investigators and their study teams, and incorporates their workflow Allows users to be productive in minutes or hours, not weeks or months Coordinates more trials simultaneously Increases protocol compliance Real-time monitoring across the organization Centralized access to all study-related information Efficient and secure communication Why should we use Velos eResearch? An integrated, network-based system provides investigators, study coordinators and clinical departments with improved research information capabilities. Velos eResearch was designed from the ground up to support both study administration and clinical data management in a single, integrated environment. For studies where we are the coordinating site, Velos eResearch is solving “the last mile” problem. Velos eResearch provides end-to-end electronic clinical trial data collection, where study data comes directly from source systems (e.g. labs, adverse events and medical records) at the sites, to the lead investigator and monitors, and on to the coordinating site. Such a system infrastructure is a major leap forward in clinical trial automation for both sponsors and investigators. Velos eResearch enables “direct data capture” as compared to “electronic data capture.” Key features that support our clinical research efforts Study Administration Protocol Management Patient Scheduling Regulatory Reporting Adverse Event Management and Reporting Data Safety Monitoring Budgets, Milestones, Invoices Invoice Payment Receipts and Processing Management of research organizations, personnel, and collaborators Clinical Data Management Patient Profiling Longitudinal patient level information collection and analysis Study Specific Data Collection and Analysis Workflow Configuration Integration with internal and third party information systems Training Opportunities Contact resinfo@med.miami.edu if you have any questions, or send an email to the Velos eResearch group: Daniel Auguste, or Henry Manfrediz. For online training visit ULearn to colmplete these two mandatory modules Velos Part 11 User Training and Introduction to Velos. Resources These PDF files will help you start using Velos eResearch: Velos eResearch Governing Policies (PDF) Velos eResearch Brochure (PDF) Velos FAQs (PDF) Helpful Links Velos Customer Corner Velos Inc. Website University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices