Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Graduate Advising and Mentoring Advising and Mentoring Resources for Students Resources on Mentoring for Advisees and Mentees Graduate School Skip to Navigation Resources on Mentoring for Advisees and Mentees Guides and Advice Inclusive Mentoring: Effective Graduate Student Mentoring Practices, Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Highlights critical strategies and resources for effective mentor-mentee relationships: providing advice, focusing on communication, mentoring across difference, and setting goals and expectations. A Guide on Mentoring for Graduate Students, Rackham Graduate School, University of Michigan Guides graduate students on finding a mentor, what to do if problems arise, changing advisors and more. A Mentee Guidebook for students: How graduate students can become respected professionals and trusted colleagues, The Graduate Senate of Case Western Reserve University Offers guidelines on meetings with advisors, choosing an advisor, considerations and setting expectations, suggestions for what to do when unexpected circumstances and conflicts with mentors arise. Mentoring Guide for Students, University of Washington Graduate School Offers guidance on building a mentoring team, selecting mentors, meeting with advisors (including a checklist for planning initial meetings), understanding influences that affect mentor choice, the mentoring experience and much more. Graduate Students: Working with your faculty adviser, University of Washington, College of Education Gives a good overview of meetings with advisors, how to prepare, what to expect and how to summarize iThinkWell Provides resources on setting agendas for advisory meetings, documenting writing goals, and charting progress. Mentoring Workbook, Case Western Reserve Provides guides for mentoring (including first meeting checklists), cultivating conversations, and identifying mentoring motivations for both the mentor and mentees. Career Planning and Guidance Individual Development plan model, Brown University The IDP helps students outline previous accomplishments, short-term and long-term training plans and career goals, as well as identify strengths and areas for improvement. The IDP is a communication tool for advisors and their advisees and is a good starting point to discuss academic plans and trajectories and future careers. CareerLAB (Center for Careers and Life after Brown), Brown University CareerLAB offers support to graduate students on interviewing, job search, résumés, and cover letter writing, as well as some programming on careers outside of the academy. The office offers regular graduate student walk-in office hours and sessions by appointment. myIDP, ScienceCareers.org (Life and Physical Sciences) Online, free individual development plan for students in the life and physical sciences. The self-assessment highlights a student’s strengths and interests and suggests career pathways that may best suit the student. ImaginePhD, Imagine PhD (Humanities and Social Sciences) Online, free career exploration and planning tool tailored for the humanities and social sciences. Connected Academies, Preparing Doctoral Students of Language and Literature for a Variety of Careers Online resources for career diversity for language and literature students, guides for PhD programs and faculty advisers for doctoral student career planning, and much more. This online project is a Mellon Foundation funded project of the Modern Language Association. The Versatile PhD Online resource for career exploration for PhD students. Resources and Contacts in the Graduate School Graduate Student Resources - Where to Start, Brown Graduate School Provides a starting point for graduate student questions and resources on campus that can assist. Who to ask: Graduate School and other contacts for graduate students, Brown Graduate School Offers contacts list for common questions from graduate students. Deans and staff, Brown Graduate School How to meet with a dean, Brown Graduate School Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Advising and Mentoring Resources for Students (home) Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants