Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>Application Information & Selection Process Application Information & Selection Process Important Dates Applicants Due Date All applications must be received by 11:59 PM (CST) Friday November 12th, 2021. Interview Status Applicants will be notified of their interview status by Friday December 17th, 2021. Applicant Interviews Will be held in early January. Open House We are planning to hold a virtual and an in-person open house in January. Watch for updates. Qualifications Applicants must have completed all formal requirements towards Ph.D. or Psy.D. Candidacy in Counseling or Clinical Psychology, certified by your Training Directors, including: *All course work, practicums, and comprehensive final exams necessary for the title of doctoral candidate must be completed by the application date. *Acceptance of dissertation proposal by dissertation committee no later than the APPIC ranking date. Furthermore, applicants will demonstrate the following: *Completed a minimum of 500 hours of supervised experience, including 250 hours in direct provision of psychological services and 50 hours in formal supervision. *Ability and willingness to demonstrate a spiritual attitude and a Christian lifestyle consistent with the beliefs, methods, and goals of Baylor University. At Baylor, our Christian faith is an integral part of who we are. Please read the following documents to more fully understand the Baylor culture and what it would be like to work here. Baylor Mission Statement https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88781 Our Christian Commitment https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88782 Our Core Convictions https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=90435 A Caring Community https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88784 Code of Ethics https://www.baylor.edu/risk/doc.php/339229.pdf *Ability and willingness to uphold all Baylor University standards of conduct. You can view Baylor’s “Personnel Policies” here: http://www.baylor.edu/bupp/?_buref=1155-90749 *Ability and willingness to submit to and pass a prospective employee background check. *International students must additionally provide proof of eligibility for employment, by the application deadline from their academic institution indicating that they are eligible for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) or Optional Practical Training (OPT), as our university cannot provide sponsorship. This proof of eligibility must be stated on the intern’s I-20 issued by the institution. In addition, the OPT/CPT process needs to be facilitated through the intern’s academic program or institution. In addition to the minimum requirements outlined above, the Intern Selection Committee takes the following preferred qualifications into account: *Clinical experience with college student population. *A commitment to valuing issues of diversity. *Interest in personal and professional integration. *Interest in an internship that utilizes a relational, “use-of-self” model, focusing on self-reflection, reflection-in-action, and self-awareness. *Completion of 1,000 hours of supervised experience, including 500 hours in direct provision of psychological services and 100 hours in formal supervision. *Strong interest in and commitment to serving a university community. *Strong interpersonal skills and ability to work collaboratively as a part of a multi-disciplinary team of university health, mental health, and student development professionals. *Strong initiative and ability to independently complete tasks and projects. Application Procedures Refer to the APPIC website for more details and complete application instructions for applying online. All application materials listed below are uploaded via the APPIC applicant portal. We do not accept any paper materials. Interested candidates should submit: *Applicants must access the “AAPI Online” to create and submit their internship applications. Go to http://www.Appic.org and click on “AAPI Online”. *Cover letter explaining why you believe you would be a good fit with the internship program at Baylor University Counseling Center. *Current curriculum vitae *Appointments of applicants to internship positions may be contingent upon the applicants satisfying certain eligibility requirements (e.g. background check). *Official graduate transcripts *We require three letters of recommendation - with a least two from clinical supervisors who will speak directly about the quality of your clinical work and your engagement in clinical supervision. We encourage your recommenders to address your professional skills and knowledge, clinical skills, interpersonal skills, professional conduct, comfortableness with diversity issues, and areas of growth and development. It would be preferable if the references are from your most recent work. *Responses to all items are required to have your application be considered complete. Failure to provide any one of the items means that your application is not complete and it may not be considered by our Internship Selection Committee. Selection Process We do not conduct on-site interviews but use video-conferencing for interviews. * While we understand that some applicants may prefer an in-person interview, we want to give all interviewees a fair and consistent interview experience and to help keep costs down for applicants. So we do not offer any in-person interviews. *Video conferencing interviews are conducted during the first 3 weeks of January. * Interviews consist of a standardized set of questions developed by the staff that may be supplemented with specific questions for each candidate. Additionally, candidates will present and discuss a treatment summary. During interviews, applicants are also given opportunities to ask questions. * Applicants are encouraged to talk to current interns, and are welcome to contact staff at any time if they have questions. Contact information for current interns will be provided upon request. Open House If applicants would like to visit our center to aid them in determining whether we would be a good fit for them, we will be offering an open house in early January. Follow this link for a virtual tour of Baylor: https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88789 *Attendance or non-attendance at the open house does not factor into selection decisions. Additional Information APPIC Guidelines Our selection process follows all APPIC guidelines and APPIC Match Policies – www.appic.org Specifically, our internship site agrees to abide by the APPIC policy that no person at this training site will solicit, accept, or use any ranking-related information from an intern applicant. If you have questions regarding our program or the application process, please contact the Training Director, Dr. Randal W. Boldt, at (254) 710-2467 or Randal_Boldt@Baylor.edu Academic Programs Requesting Additional Contracts and/or Evaluations The Doctoral Internship in Psychology program at the Baylor University Counseling Center endorses the APPIC Match process as binding. Counseling Services therefore does not enter into additional training contracts or written training agreements beyond what is required to participate in Match. If an applicant’s academic program requires such a contract, they are strongly encouraged to consult with their Director of Clinical Training (DCT) about this requirement now. If they indicate that they require such contracts and are unwilling to waive this requirement then the application will not be considered. Similarly, interns at Baylor University Counseling Center receive ongoing formative and summative evaluative feedback from supervisors throughout the training year. These evaluations are based on our program's philosophy of training, training model, and the goals, objectives, and competencies that define the internship. At mid-year and again at the end of the year the internship Training Coordinator sends the academic program’s Director of Clinical Training (DCT) a letter summarizing the intern's performance to date and a copy of their evaluation. Therefore, if an applicant is enrolled in an academic training program that requires additional departmental program evaluations, these will not be completed by Baylor University Counseling Center staff. The academic program may choose to use the data from our evaluations to complete their own forms. Again, applicants are strongly encouraged to consult with their DCT if there are any questions about such requirements to see if they are eligible to apply to our site. Equal Opportunity Policy Statement Baylor University is firmly committed to Equal Employment Opportunity and to compliance with all Federal, State and local laws that prohibit employment discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, gender, national origin, disability, protected veteran status and other protected classifications. As a government contractor, Baylor University is also committed to taking affirmative action to hire and advance minorities and women as well as qualified individuals with disabilities and covered veterans. Non-Discrimination Policy Statement Baylor University complies with all applicable federal and state nondiscrimination laws and does not engage in prohibited discrimination on the basis of race, color, nationality or ethnic origin, sex, age, or disability in employment or the provision of services. The university is governed by a predominantly Baptist Board of Regents and is operated within the Christian-oriented aims and ideals of Baptists. Baylor is also affiliated with the Baptist General Convention of Texas, a cooperative association of autonomous Texas Baptist churches. As a religiously controlled institution of higher education, Baylor University is exempted from compliance with some provisions of certain civil rights laws, including some provisions of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health