Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Marketing and Communication The Brand Our Team Resources Social Media Web Events News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Social Media Social Media Directory Download UofM Emojis Hashtag Guide Social Media Handbook Phone & Computer Wallpaper Take Action Media Resources Brand Standards Marketing Toolkit Contact Us Follow UofM Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Marketing and Communication Social Media University Social Media Follow the UofM! Follow the Tigers! Social Media Resources Social Media Handbook - Review the UofM Social Media policies and best practices for students, faculty, staff and departmental accounts Download the approved social media profile photos below. These are to be used by official UofM social media accounts only. Posting Requests Have an event, activity or organization we should cover? Send us the scoop. Email socialmediateam@memphis.edu with exact wording, links and graphics to go along with post. Specify on which platforms you would like posted (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, etc.) Specify what date you would like your information posted Give plenty of notice so we can accommodate your request. All posts must be approved by Marketing Leadership. We will notify you if your post is not approved. Posts must be relevant to a large audience and relate to the UofM. Social Media Policy & Procedures Procedures Establishing a University Sponsored Site Administrative offices, academic colleges, schools, departments and research units wishing to establish a University Sponsored Site should contact socialmediateam@memphis.edu in the UofM Department of Marketing and Communication to begin the registration and recognition process. Upon completion of the registration and recognition process, sites approved by the Department of Marketing and Communication will be added to the UofM Social Media Directory. Maintenance of Sites The user may create the new account subject to the terms of this policy and any requirements imposed as a condition of approval. The UofM will periodically review approved sites and reserves the right to revoke or limit approval at any time in its sole discretion. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/27/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.