Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Advancement Ways to Give Donor Recognition Your Impact Resources About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Give Now Support Your College Join the Alumni Association Contact Us Home University Advancement Your Impact Students Give Thanks I was 16 when I graduated high school, and I chose to attend UofM because it was close to home and I could continue to get guidance from my parents as I went through this new experience. By receiving this scholarship, I can continue my education at the UofM and not worry about how I will pay for my tuition and books. I appreciate your generosity, and I will not let you down. My drive to complete my senior year will not waiver in these last few semesters. Thank you. -Taylor Before law school, I served in the U.S. Army as a Field Artillery Officer from 2012-2016. I strive to utilize the lessons I learned during my military service to optimize my performance in law school and to create opportunities to help others in the Memphis Law community. By receiving this significant contribution to my legal education, I hope and believe that I can contribute to the proud legacy of military veterans practicing law in the Memphis area. -Andrew I came to the U.S. when I was 13 years old as a refugee from Yemen. I am proud to say that I am the first girl in my family to attend college. My goal is to attend medical school and become a cardiologist. Receiving a donor-funded scholarship means I won't have to worry about paying for books this year. It means that I have to work harder to excel because you trusted me and invested in me. Thank you so much for trying to make my journey easier with your help. -Abeer I spent my first two years of college working three jobs to pay for my tuition while still being active in several organizations. I was adopted from China and moved to the U.S. at a young age. My involvement with the Asian American Association at the UofM has taught me about my Asian culture that I always felt like I was missing out on. This scholarship has helped me tremendously and I no longer need to work as much as I did. Thank you for the continuous interest you have in the UofM. Students like me would be nowhere without generous donors like you. -Taylor In addition to accounting, I have played clarinet in several ensembles at the UofM. I had to be disciplined and organized to do well in school while being an active and engaged student. I come from a single-parent home, and I am not afraid to work hard to achieve my goals. This scholarship helps me in achieving my goals of being a CPA and a future partner or CFO. I am very grateful and humbled for being chosen as the recipient of this scholarship. -Ivan I am a mom of two toddlers and a full-time law student. I decided to attend law school because knowledge of the law is critical in the public service field. By receiving a scholarship, my career plans are made possible. I want to thank the donors from the bottom of my heart. As a minority woman who came to America for a better future, I am honored to receive this scholarship. I am a proud American, Memphian and Memphis Law student. Thank you for your kindness; I hope to be able to pay it forward one day. -Naira The impact of private support is visible across the UofM and reaches throughout the community and beyond. You’ve given our students scholarships, opportunities to participate in hands-on learning experiences and so much more. You’ll see exactly how your generosity leaves a mark on the lives of our students throughout our university. Each gift, combined with others, works together to help create a better Memphis and region. Gifts from our valued donors are hard at work and have enabled the University of Memphis to achieve many of its goals. Thank you for supporting the dreams of the extraordinary UofM students like Ivan, Casey, Sarah, Catrell and Laura. Learn more about their stories in the video below: <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.