Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Research at New Heights Enhancing the cadet learning experience by fostering the critical thinking skills necessary to succeed as leaders in the Air and Space Forces and beyond. Office of ResearchResearch Centers & InstitutesOutreachResearch Staff 51263327627_d0dc261962_k LSRC 2 U.S. Air Force Academy -- (U.S. Air Force photo/Trevor Cokley) FalconSAT USAFA DFME U.S. Air Force Academy – (U.S. Air Force photo/Trevor Cokley) U.S. Air Force Academy – (U.S. Air Force photo/Trevor Cokley) In This Section: Office of Research Research Centers STEM Outreach Cadet Summer Research Program Research Awards Institute for Future Conflict Research Overview ACCELERATING CHANGE THROUGH RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Research at the United States Air Force Academy is where innovation meets collaboration. Alongside our government, academic, and major industry partners, we tackle some of our nation’s most pressing challenges. With over $40 million in annual research funding, our robust undergraduate research program is the number one funded program in the nation. We pride ourselves on being a catalyst for innovation, with cadets and faculty contributing to leading-edge research in support of our national defense. Research at the Academy is supported by 24 robust research centers working across a wide-ranging field of disciplines. Some of our core research facilities and equipment include a state-of-the-art battle lab conducting realistic wargaming scenarios, our Observatory’s 1-meter advanced telescope supporting a globally operational network, a modern human performance laboratory which optimizes warfighter physical and cognitive abilities, and a self-driving Tesla Model X used by the Warfighter Effectiveness Research Center to advance human machine teaming technology. Leveraging the Academy’s extensive network, the Cadet Summer Research Program annually sends over 450 cadets throughout the United States and around the world to explore research projects. Through this program, our cadets tackle complex research issues to improve our world. From breakthroughs in quantum computing to supporting homeless veteran initiatives and innovating wheelchair technology for the physically challenged, our cadets help solve real-world issues. At a Glance RESEARCH FACTS 24Research Centers and Institutes 450cadets in Cadet Summer Research Program (CSRP) 217National and International Research Agreements 300PhDs CONNECTING WITH THE K–12 COMMUNITY STEM OUTREACH The Academy’s Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Outreach Program exists to engage, inspire and attract the next generation of STEM talent through K-12 programs. Faculty and cadets work with the local community, schools and teachers to provide outreach and increase the effectiveness of the Air Force’s investment in STEM. Cadets have the opportunity to mentor the next generation of potential cadets through involvement in these efforts. Explore STEM Services EVOLUTION OF RESEARCH RESEARCH CENTERS An Air Force research pioneer and former high school chemistry teacher, Col Frank J. Seiler was a strong advocate of in-house research and the effective use of young scientific officers and officer-candidates. Civilian university students had always participated in the research, and Seiler envisioned that if Air Force Academy cadets could be involved in real-world research efforts, they would be better prepared for their future assignments. Explore Centers & Institutes CSRP Cadet Summer Research Program The Cadet Summer Research Program (CSRP) provides opportunities for cadets to solve relevant problems, learn through real-world application of classroom principles, and build lasting collaborative relationships while participating in research at the various military, government, and civilian facilities throughout the world. CSRP participants receive credit for a military summer training program through this career-broadening assignment. Cadets interested in competing for a CSRP slot should contact Maj. Dan O’Keefe, CSRP Director, for more information. Contact DFQ Research News Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for all U.S. Air Force Academy celebrates research achievements at annual awards ceremony U.S. Air Force Academy’s computer and cyber sciences department recognized as ‘National Center of Academic Excellence’ Commentary: Air Force Academy plays leading role in 2022’s great space rush Elon Musk urges cadet researchers at U.S. Air Force Academy to keep innovating, make rocket launches ‘boring’ All News Explore More Office of Research STEM Research Centers ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.