Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Research SMU News Research Jung-Chih Chiao elected Fellow of American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering Jung-Chih Chiao elected Fellow of American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering February 21, 2022 DALLAS (SMU) – J.-C. Chiao, the Mary and Richard Templeton Centennial Chair and professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department in the SMU Lyle School of Engineering, has been elected a fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE). Chiao is being recognized by his peers and members of the AIMBE College of Fellows for “outstanding contributions to the development of novel wireless and batteryless implantable devices for chronic disease management.” Chiao, who joined the SMU faculty in 2018, is widely recognized for his research in using electromagnetic waves in medical applications including closed-loop pain management systems and gastric motility management. In addition to publishing and editing peer many reviewed articles and receiving numerous awards for his teaching, research, and scholarship, he was named a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2020. Prior to SMU, Chiao was a Distinguished University Professor at the University of Texas at Arlington and also served as an adjunct associate professor of internal medicine at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. He received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University and earned both M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering at the California Institute of Technology. AIMBE’s mission is to recognize excellence in and advocate for, the fields of medical and biological engineering to advance society. AIMBE Fellows have helped revolutionize medicine and related fields to enhance and extend the lives of people all over the world. They have successfully advocated for public policies that have enabled researchers and business-makers to further the interests of engineers, teachers, scientists, clinical practitioners, and ultimately, patients. About SMU SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty, and more than 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities, and the world. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share