Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift University Relations Services University Relations offers a variety of services. The list below will guide you to a form to make a request that will be submitted for evaluation. Marketing and Communication Request Marketing and Communication Services Marketing and Communication Request Form Description of Marketing and Communication Services goes here Submit A Story Idea Submit A Story Idea Something amazing is happening in my program, research area, department or college! I have a program, person or project that I want other people to know about, so I am reaching out about storytelling and promotion. Inside Clemson Request Inside Clemson Request I want to find out if I can share a story or event with faculty and staff by having it published in the Inside Clemson e-newsletter. Branding Request Branding Services Branding Services Request Form I am seeking help in the areas of messaging and voice development; identifying current and future audiences; and/or building a brand compliant visual identity through colors, fonts, logos, design and more. Creative Digital Request Digital Request Form I need help creating collateral such as an ad, flyer, brochure but I don’t need them printed. Social Request Social Request Form I need help with social assets such as copy, graphic or video. Print Request Print Request Form The marketing or promotional project I’m exploring has a printed asset (or assets) tied to it – be it on paper, in signage, on a banner, etc. I am looking to hire someone to write, design, produce and/or distribute the print piece (brochure, direct mail, flyer, poster, event collateral, postcard, etc.). Photography Request Photography Request Form Photos are an important aspect of promoting a department's faculty, staff and students in publications and other media. Photo Services’ staff of three photographers are here to help our clients obtain the best visuals possible. Please fill out our request form for services. Please note: WE WILL CONFIRM YOUR REQUEST WITHIN 24 HOURS. If you do not receive this confirmation, email photo@clemson.edu. We require a 48-hour advance notice for weekly office hours photo shoots. We require 2-weeks advance notice for after-hours and weekends. If event is changed or canceled, please notify us as soon as possible. In the event the Clemson photo staff cannot accommodate the request, names of freelance photographers will be provided. These photographers typically charge $100 per hour. If you need to cancel a request or make a change to your original request, please edit your original request here change order form. Photo Charges For EACH photographer and assignment: Equipment Replacement Overhead Fee — $10 Digital photography (per hour) — $30 After Hours Rate for university photographer — $65 (after 4:30 p.m. or weekends) *Subject to availability. Photos are typically delivered digitally within 2-3 business days following your event. If you need images available within 1 business day or less, you are subject to a rush charge of $50. Travel — If a photo assignment is more than 10 miles round trip from our office, there will be a separate travel charge. Also, if the photo assignment is on a Saturday or Sunday then we charge travel from the photographer’s home to the assignment if the assignment is more than 10 miles from their home. University Copyright Photographs taken by our staff photographers are the property of Clemson University and are subject to the University's Copyright Policy. Video Request Video Request Form A video project could help me get my message out if it were published online, on social channels, and/or I have purchased traditional media air time. I am seeking a videographer, script writer, animator and/or designer to find out if I can secure visuals in video form for my department, division, project or event. Web Request Request Form My department, division or office has a Creative Services-maintained website, and I am a Web Content Manager who is requesting updates to it. Or, I am seeking to create a new website or have updates made to an existing site, but my area does not have a designated Web Manager. I Need Multiple Creative Items Multiple Creative Item Request Form Photos + Video. Print + Digital. Web + Social. … I’m thinking I might need multiple deliverables. Help! Home About Our Team Policies and Guidelines Resources for Campus Communicators Contact Us Services Related Links Clemson News Clemson World CW Research Magazine Social Media Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram