Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Coronavirus Updates Guidelines Masks on Campus Info For... Vaccine Testing Case Report Communications FAQs Resources HEERF Reporting Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Campus Communications How UofM Is Helping Video Messages Take Action Review Guidelines Daily Self-Checker Testing Center View Cases on Campus Report CARES Act Home Coronavirus Updates Communications COVID-19 Updates from UofM COVID-19 Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) February 14, 2022 - The best protection against serious illness from COVID-19 continues to be vaccinations. ... COVID-19 Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) February 1, 2022 - The best protection against serious illness from COVID-19 continues to be vaccinations. ... COVID-19 Updates (Campus) January 13, 2022 - As has been the case nationally, our community has seen a significant rise in COVID-19 cases driven by the spread of the Omicron variant. ... COVID-19 Updates (Campus) December 30, 2021 - As has been the case nationally, our community has seen a significant rise in COVID-19 cases driven by the spread of the Omicron variant. The best protection against serious illness from COVID-19 continues to be vaccinations. ... Flu Vaccinations and COVID Testing On Campus (Campus) December 14, 2021 - Flu shots are now available for faculty, staff and students at the Student Health Center. ... Vaccine Mandate Update (Faculty, Staff, Student Employees) December 1, 2021 - On December 1, the University was advised that state exemption regarding federal compliance with the vaccine mandate has been suspended until further notice. ... COVID and Flu Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) November 30 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer COVID-19 vaccinations on our campus through the fall semester. ... Vaccine Reminder (Faculty, Staff, Student Employees) November 23, 2021 - This will serve as a reminder that the University of Memphis, a federal contractor, is required to comply with the October 21 Executive Order 14042 regarding vaccines. ... COVID and Flu Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) November 17, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer COVID-19 vaccinations on our campus through the fall semester. ... Executive Order 14042 Vaccine Mandate (Faculty, Staff, Student Employees) November 16, 2021 - On October 21, our campus issued a communication regarding Executive Order 14042. We now have confirmation that this mandate will apply to the University of Memphis. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) November 2, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer COVID-19 vaccinations on our campus through the fall semester. ... Latest Shelby County Health Directive (Campus) October 28, 2021 - Shelby County Health Department Order No. 27, issued Oct. 27, adjusts mask requirements to “highly recommended” for Shelby County businesses. It still requires masks be worn in school settings. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) October 26, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer COVID-19 vaccinations on our campus through the fall semester. ... Time Sensitive Executive Order 14042 and What We Know (Campus) October 21, 2021 - On September 9, 2021, President Biden issued Executive Order 14042, “Ensuring Adequate COVID Safety Protocols for Federal Contractors,” requiring that all employees of organizations that perform work for the federal government (federal contractors) provide proof of being fully vaccinated no later than December 8, unless the employee is legally entitled to an accommodation due to a medical condition or religious belief. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) October 5, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer COVID-19 vaccinations on our campus. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) September 28, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) September 21, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) September 14, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... UofM Women's Basketball Head Coach Wants You To Stick It To COVID (Campus) September 7, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) August 31, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... Classroom Seating Assignments (Students, Faculty) August 30, 2021 - Beginning Wednesday, September 1, we ask that you sit in the same seat in each of your on-campus classes through the entire fall semester. ... COVID-19 Testing and Notification Protocols (Campus) August 25, 2021 - If you have sought a COVID-19 test due to exposure or symptoms, you should not come to campus until you receive those test results. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) August 24, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... COVID-19 Policy, Testing and Vaccines (Campus) August 18, 2021 - Faculty, staff, students and visitors are expected to monitor current health and safety measure requirements posted to our website and shared through other official communication channels including, but not limited to University email. ... Vaccinations On Campus (Campus) August 17, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students through September 30. ... Executive Order 84, Campus School and University Middle (Faculty and Staff) August 17, 2021 - Yesterday, Governor Lee issued Executive Order 84, an order disallowing mask mandates in K-12 schools and one that impacts the operation of our Campus School and University Middle. One of our central responsibilities at the University of Memphis is to protect the health and safety of all on our campus, including Campus School and University Middle. ... Fall Class Delivery Format (Students, Faculty) August 16, 2021 - All courses for the fall semester will take place in the delivery format (online, on-ground, hybrid) that was published in the “Schedule of Classes." ... Vaccinations Available On Campus (Campus) August 10, 2021 - In a continued effort to keep our campus and community safe, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to offer vaccinations weekly to all faculty, staff and students from August 12 through September 30. ... Shelby County/UofM Campuses Mask Directive (Campus) August 4, 2021 - Shelby County Health Department Health Order No. 24, which is currently in effect and provides updated COVID-19 guidance, recommends that all persons, including fully vaccinated individuals, wear masks indoors in areas of “substantial or high transmission" regardless of vaccination status. Campus CDC Guidelines Update (Campus) July 28, 2021 - The CDC has updated COVID-19 guidance and is recommending that all persons, including fully vaccinated individuals, wear masks indoors in areas of “substantial or high transmission.” The Importance of Vaccinations (Campus) July 26, 2021 - As our country, state and city struggle with the re-emergence of the latest variant of COVID-19, it has never been more important, if you have not already, to get vaccinated. ... Vaccinations Available Thursday, July 22 (Campus) July 19, 2021 - For the health and safety of our University community, all students and employees are strongly encouraged to get vaccinated to help minimize the spread of the virus as vaccines are now widely available. ... UofM Head Football Coach Wants You To Stick It To COVID (Campus) July 12, 2021 - For the health and safety of our University community, all students and employees are strongly encouraged to get vaccinated to help minimize the spread of the virus. ... Vaccinations Available Thursday, June 24 (Campus) June 21, 2021 - The University will again be making available COVID-19 vaccinations on campus in partnership with the Baptist Medical Group (BMG) on Thursday, June 24, from 9:30 a.m. - 4 p.m. in the Rose Theatre Lobby. New Campus Health Directives Beginning July 1 (Campus) June 10, 2021 - The University continues to follow the latest CDC and local health guidelines as we prepare to resume normal operations over the course of the summer in anticipation of welcoming our campus community back. ... Youth COVID-19 Vaccinations Available at Campus School (Campus) June 7, 2021 - The University will be offering a youth COVID-19 vaccination site for all qualified University Schools students and children/dependents of UofM faculty, staff and students. ... Vaccinations Available Thursday, June 3 (Campus) June 1, 2021 - The University will again be making available COVID-19 vaccinations on campus in partnership with the Baptist Medical Group (BMG) on Thursday, June 3, from 9 am - 4 pm in the Rose Theatre Lobby. ... University-Related Travel (Faculty/Staff) May 17, 2021 - Based on CDC and local health guidelines, the University of Memphis is eliminating the requirement for additional approvals for faculty and staff University-related travel within the United States. ... On-Campus Vaccinations and Incentives (Campus) May 9, 2021 - The University will again be making available COVID-19 vaccinations on campus in partnership with the Baptist Medical Group (BMG) on Thursday, May 13, from 9 am-4 pm in the Rose Theatre Lobby. ... Transition to Regular On-Campus Work Schedules (Staff) May 4, 2021 - With the broad availability of COVID-19 vaccines, latest guidance from the CDC and the Governor's latest directives, we will be implementing a phased transition of our workforce back to campus. ... COVID-19 Campus Updates (Campus) April 30, 2021 - In accordance with the Executive Order issued by Governor Lee and the latest guidance from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the University is amending the COVID-19 policy as follows. ... Vaccine Clarification (Campus) April 16, 2021 - As a follow-up to the previous message regarding vaccine availability both on and off-campus, the University of Memphis is simply providing a community service that is voluntary for faculty, staff and students in partnership with the City of Memphis and the Baptist Medical Group. ... Vaccine Availability on Campus Update (Campus) April 16, 2021 - To support greater access to the vaccine, the University of Memphis is partnering with Baptist Medical Group (BMG) to provide the Pfizer vaccine to faculty, staff and students on Thursday, April 22, from 9 a.m.-3 p.m. in the Rose Theatre Lobby. ... Vaccine Availability and Shuttle Service Update (Campus) April 12, 2021 - The University is partnering with the City of Memphis to provide expedited access to vaccines. ... Immediate Vaccines Available (Campus) April 6, 2021 - The City of Memphis has contacted the University to remind our campus community that many vaccines are still available this week. ... Vaccine Update (Campus) April 5, 2021 - The University continues to actively monitor vaccine availability and distribution. ... Return to Campus Update (Staff) March 30, 2021 - Due to the decline in Shelby County COVID cases and the increased availability of vaccines, the University feels hopeful about transitioning back to an on-site working model. ... Staff Transition Back to Campus (Staff) March 29, 2021 - Throughout the course of this pandemic, our decision-making has been driven by empirical evidence, timely data, our identified institutional values and the health and safety of those on our campus at the forefront. ... Vaccine Availability Changes (Campus) March 23, 2021 - Vaccine availability has recently changed. The City of Memphis announced late Monday that it has 8,000 available appointments this week for those age 45 and up, and it will open vaccination appointments to ages 16 and older on Friday, March 26, for slots next week. ... Vaccine Availability Update (Campus) March 19, 2021 - The University continues to monitor vaccine availability and advocate for our community to receive them. ... Looking Forward to the Fall Semester (Students) March 5, 2021 - We are pleased that current information suggests we will return safely to face-to-face classes this fall with normal seating capacities. ... Vaccine Information (Campus) March 3, 2021 - As you know, we have continued to work with the City of Memphis in an effort to coordinate vaccinations for faculty and staff on our campus. ... Better Days Ahead (Campus) February 26, 2021 - This has been one of the most difficult years in the history of the University of Memphis and our city. ... CRRSA Act Financial Funds Available (Students) February 16, 2021 - Earlier today, the University of Memphis was notified that funding will be available shortly. ... CRRSA Act Financial Resources (Students) February 11, 2021 - As we shared with you earlier, the recent Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSA) provides additional financial resources to support students who meet established criteria. ... Phased Return to Campus (Faculty/Staff) January 26, 2021 - The recent Shelter at Home Directive for Shelby County expired on January 22 and has not been renewed given improving community conditions. ... Student Resources and Requirements (Students) January 16, 2021 - As you know, the UofM asked faculty to delay the beginning of face-to-face sessions of many classes scheduled for on-ground or hybrid instruction until there is a better sense of community health conditions. ... Student Funds Available under the Stimulus Package (Students) January 15, 2021 - As we shared with you earlier, financial support will be made available to actively enrolled students under the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA). ... COVID-19 & Vaccinations: Benefits and Coverage for Faculty & Staff (Faculty/Staff) January 12, 2021 - Partners for Health has created an online resource with information regarding COVD-19 benefits, coverage and vaccinations. ... Financial Support for Students (Students) January 9, 2021 - Navigating the challenges created by COVID-19 continues to be incredibly difficult for our campus and community. ... Vaccine Plan (Faculty/Staff) January 8, 2021 - I have been in touch with university presidents across Tennessee, the Director of the Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) and other state representatives regarding the overall vaccination plan for Tennessee. ... Campus Operations Update (Campus) January 5, 2021 - The University reopened on Monday, Jan. 4 as scheduled. ... Safer at Home Directive until January 22 and Dining Services Information (Faculty/Staff) January 1, 2021 - The Shelby County Health Department issued new “Safer at Home” directives that asks employers to allow non-essential employees to work remotely where feasible. ... Campus Update (Campus) December 24, 2020 - I wanted to provide a quick update as we move through the holiday season and into a new year. ... TN Department of Health COVID-19 Vaccination Plan (Faculty/Staff) December 2, 2020 - The Tennessee Department of Health (TDH) recently released a COVID-19 Vaccination Plan. ... 2021 Spring Classes and Spring Break Modifications (Campus) November 23, 2020 - From the outset of the COVID-19 outbreak, our decisions have been guided by empirical evidence, timely data, our identified institutional values and the health and safety of those on our campus. ... Refunding of Payment Plan Fees (Students) November 23, 2020 - The University recognizes that our students and their families continue to face challenges created by COVID-19. ... COVID-19 Campus Safety Update (Campus) November 17, 2020 - As you are probably aware, there has been a steady rise in COVID-19 cases in Shelby County. ... Campus Update (Campus) September 28, 2020 - We look forward to continuing to increase the density on our campus on Monday, October 5, with the voluntary return of some additional face-to-face classes. ... Keeping Campus at Current Density (Campus) September 15, 2020 - As we work with the Shelby County Health Department to gain a full and accurate understanding of recent COVID-19 cases, and in an effort to guard against any potential spread, we will maintain campus density at current levels and not add additional face-to-face classes next week as originally scheduled. ... Phased Return to Campus (Students) September 10, 2020 - You are probably already aware of the plan for a limited move to the next phase of re-opening the campus on September 21. ... Privacy Laws and COVID-19 Reporting (Campus) September 2, 2020 - All University employees are charged, under FERPA (Family Education Rights and Privacy Act), with safeguarding the privacy of student education records. ... Initiatives to Support Students During COVID-19 (Campus) August 24, 2020 - The past six months have been some of the most difficult in our history, with the impact of COVID-19 leaving no corner of our community untouched. ... Commitment to Tigers Together (Campus) August 20, 2020 - We are working hard to provide a clean, safe and secure campus environment. ... Rec Center Reopening (Campus) August 18, 2020 - The Student Recreation and Sports Complex (Rec Center) will be reopening on Thursday, August 20. ... Additional Financial Actions to Support Students (Campus) August 12, 2020 - As we shared earlier this week, the University recognizes the financial challenges created by COVID-19. ... Continued Financial Support for Students (Students) August 10, 2020 - We recognize the challenges presented by COVID-19 on all fronts, including finances. ... UofM COVID-19 Testing Center to Open August 17 (Campus) August 5, 2020 - The University of Memphis is opening a COVID-19 Testing Center for only UofM students, faculty and staff who are exhibiting symptoms beginning August 17. ... Phased Return to Campus (Campus) July 30, 2020 - As shared in communications since the onset of COVID-19, our decision-making has been driven by empirical evidence, timely data, our identified institutional values and the health and safety of those on our campus at the forefront. ... Return to Campus Update (Campus) July 15, 2020 - We will continue to follow the latest scientific data and related health guidance in making decisions for our campus community. ... Faculty and Staff Accommodations Request Process (Faculty/Staff) July 15, 2020 - There is some confusion regarding the process and expectations for requesting work accommodations as they relate to the impacts of COVID-19 for faculty and staff. ... Fall 2020 Campus Housing and Dining Update (Students) July 13, 2020 - With the start of the fall semester approaching, below is additional information regarding on-campus housing and dining operations for the Fall 2020 semester. ... UTHSC to Provide COVID-19 Testing for UofM Students This Fall (Campus) July 10, 2020 - The University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC) is partnering with the University of Memphis (UofM) to provide COVID-19 testing for UofM students returning to campus this fall. ... City of Memphis Ordinance and Face Coverings on Campus (Campus) June 26, 2020 - As you are likely aware, late yesterday Mayor Strickland signed a City Ordinance (read full document) requiring face coverings to be worn in public areas. ... Fall Initiatives (Campus) June 23, 2020 - Our commitment to access and affordability is a priority for the University of Memphis. ... On-Campus Housing Updates (Students) June 17, 2020 - The University of Memphis is planning for a regular full occupancy fall opening of our housing facilities with limited exceptions and appropriate health measures. ... COVID-19 Testing on Campus (Campus) June 8, 2020 - As you know, the University has begun the gradual return of some faculty and staff to campus. ... Fall 2020 Academic Calendar Adjustments (Campus) June 5, 2020 - In accordance with the best available health guidance and in an effort to protect the safety of our students, faculty and staff, the University of Memphis will begin classes one week earlier than previously planned so that all classes and final exams can be completed prior to the Thanksgiving holidays. Return to Campus Update (Campus) May 28, 2020 - As you are aware, we have a steering committee and multiple groups actively working on plans for our return to campus in the fall. ... Summer 2020 Installment Payment Plan (Students) May 27, 2020 - Given the unique challenges presented by COVID-19 on our students, the University is actively looking a ways to support students. ... Spring 2020 Grades Posted; Credit / No Credit Opt-In Available Now (Students) May 13, 2020 - Your Spring 2020 grades have been posted to your academic record. ... THANK YOU (Campus) May 9, 2020 - I have always been aware of the importance of our University for the City of Memphis, the State of Tennessee and our nation. ... Academic Affairs Fall Preparedness Steering Committee and Working Groups Named (Faculty/Staff) May 7, 2020 - As we wrap up a challenging spring, it is time to look ahead and prepare for the fall semester. ... COVID-19: CARES Act Funding (Students) May 4, 2020 - In our continuing effort to support students addressing the unique challenges presented by COVID-19, the CARES Act provided funds to institutions of higher education to give direct financial assistance to eligible students. ... Credit / No Credit Opt-In Reminder (Students) May 4, 2020 - As a reminder, the University of Memphis will be offering Undergraduate and Graduate students a Credit / No Credit grading option for the Spring 2020 semester. ... COVID-19 Update: Fall Preparations (Campus) April 28, 2020 - We have started the process of planning for a return to campus for the fall semester. ... COVID-19 Update: Fall Preparations (Campus) April 24, 2020 - Despite these uncertain times, the last several months have demonstrated the resolve, resilience, creativity, commitment and kindness of our community. ... Summer School Initiatives Recap (Students) April 22, 2020 - In our continued efforts to support our students’ progression to degree completion during these difficult times, the UofM is offering direct financial support to students through several initiatives for Summer 2020. ... COVID-19 Update (Faculty/Staff) April 20, 2020 - As we near the end of the spring semester, I wanted to provide an update given some of the national narrative regarding the impact of COVID-19 on higher education, budgets in particular. ... Additional Information on Credit/No Credit Grade Options (Students) April 17, 2020 - We have recently updated the alternative grading options website at https://www.memphis.edu/aa/aaunits/gradeoptions.php. ... Grants to Juniors and Seniors (Students) April 17, 2020 - In our continued efforts to support our upper class student populations, we are offering a $500 grant to assist juniors and seniors with their costs when enrolled for two classes in the summer 2020 semester. ... Academic Financial Support for Summer 2020 (Students) April 16, 2020 - In an effort to continue to support our students’ progression to degree completion during these difficult times, the UofM is offering direct financial support to students for Summer 2020: ... Student Academic Success Services and Support (Campus) April 14, 2020 - We know that the transition to remote learning may present some new challenges, but we are here to support you through them. ... Credit/No Credit Grade Option Updates (Students) April 9, 2020 - We have posted information about this semester’s credit/no credit grading option that we hope will answer many of your questions here: ... Campus Updates (Faculty/Staff) April 9, 2020 - We are several weeks into our transition to remote and virtual instruction for the remainder of our spring semester. ... Commencement Updates (Campus) April 8, 2020 - Due to the COVID-19 virus, we are postponing commencement ceremonies for the safety of our students and their families and friends. ... Workplace Guidelines (Faculty/Staff) April 3, 2020 - As we address the spread of COVID-19 in Greater Memphis and on our campus, available City of Memphis data indicates that when cases do occur the most significant risk of transmission is in the workplace. ... Credit/No Credit Grade Option (Campus) April 1, 2020 - In response to our changing circumstances, the University of Memphis will be offering all students a credit/no credit grading system for this semester. ... Hiring Moratorium (Faculty/Staff) March 31, 2020 - As the University continues to evaluate the impact of COVID-19, it is clear we will need to make some difficult decisions to ensure that the University responds to the crisis in a financially sound and responsible manner. ... Virtual Learning and Spring Commencement (Campus) March 30, 2020 - We are moving into our second week since transitioning to remote and virtual learning at the University of Memphis. ... Student Resources (Updates) (Students) March 30, 2020 - We know this pandemic is creating significant challenges for you, your family members and our broader community. ... Families First Coronavirus Response Act (Campus) March 29, 2020 - In an effort to ease employees’ choices between protecting their jobs and their families, the US Department of Labor (DOL) has implemented various changes enacted by Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) effective April 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020. ... Housing, Dining and Parking Refunds (Campus) March 27, 2020 - Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have passed federal relief legislation, and it is moving forward to President Trump for signature. ... Federal Relief Package Update (Campus) March 25, 2020 - As you are likely aware, a federal relief package is expected to pass the U.S. House and Senate in the next few days. ... YourHealth Helpline (Campus) March 25, 2020 - In an effort to support our students, faculty and staff, the Loewenberg College of Nursing has established a designated email helpline to submit questions. ... Campus Safety and Building Controls (Campus) March 24, 2020 - To appropriately respond to the impacts of COVID-19, the University has taken several steps following CDC guidelines and directives from local authorities to include: ... Still Driven. Still Doing. (Campus) March 23, 2020 - While these are uncertain times, I have no doubt that our Memphis community will pull together to take care of each other and rise to any challenge. ... Undergraduate Students Enrollment Services Updates (Students) March 23, 2020 - Now that the UofM has transitioned to online learning for the spring term in an effort to protect our University community from the spread of the COVID-19, we are working to minimize your need to physically visit campus to conduct business while ensuring we support your needs. ... Online Learning Transition (Students) March 22, 2020 - The faculty and staff at the University of Memphis have devoted tremendous efforts over the past week to implement the transition to remote learning beginning tomorrow. ... COVID-19 Update (Faculty/Staff) March 20, 2020 - Our leadership team continues to review local, state and federal guidance regarding our response to COVID-19 (coronavirus). ... Student Workers (Campus) March 20, 2020 - Please be advised that all students, including federal work-study students, who want to continue working still have a job with the University of Memphis, regardless of our transition to remote and virtual instruction. ... Student Resources (Students) March 20, 2020 - As you know, the University of Memphis is transitioning to remote learning to support Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) recommendations and reduce health concerns related to COVID-19. ... Student Academic Updates (Students) March 19, 2020 - The faculty have been working very hard and thoughtfully this week to try to make the transition of our on-ground courses to a remote format as smooth as possible. ... Faculty and Staff COVID-19 Update (Faculty/Staff) March 17, 2020 - The past two weeks have been difficult ones for all of us as we take steps to slow the spread of COVID-19. ... COVID-19 Updates (Campus) March 16, 2020 - With spring break having been extended through the end of this week, faculty and staff are actively working to facilitate a transition to remote and virtual learning for the remainder of the spring semester for the majority of offerings. ... FAQ Link (Campus) March 12, 2020 - Guidelines and other FAQs are available on our webpage, FAQs related to Coronavirus and the UofM. Spring Break Extended to Allow for Transition to Remote Learning (Campus) March 12, 2020 - We continue to coordinate with local, state and federal entities regarding COVID-19 (coronavirus). ... University Schools Closure (University Schools) March 12, 2020 - As you may have read this morning, Shelby County Schools has announced that all classes will be cancelled for two weeks, beginning Friday, March 13, through Friday, March 27. ... Statement Regarding Winter/Spring Sports (Campus) March 12, 2020 - Earlier today, the American Athletic Conference announced both the cancellation of the men’s basketball tournament and the suspension of all spring competitions until further notice. ... International Travel Discontinued (Campus) March 9, 2020 - Given continued state and federal guidance, as of today we are discontinuing all faculty, staff and student international travel through the end of the semester. ... Coronavirus Case Confirmed in Shelby County (Campus) March 8, 2020 - We are aware that the first case of COVID-19 (coronavirus) has been identified in Shelby County, information shared by Mayor Strickland this morning. ... Health Preparedness: Online Classes (Students) March 6, 2020 - Health preparedness necessitates that we more thoroughly plan for the possibility that conducting our face-to-face classes may be interrupted. ... Health Preparedness: Faculty Online Instruction (Faculty) March, 6, 2020 - Health preparedness necessitates that we more thoroughly plan for the possibility that conducting our face-to-face classes may be interrupted. ... Travel Notice and Hand Sanitizer Helpline (Campus) March 5, 2020 - With Spring Break approaching, please be aware of the current travel advisory issued by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). ... Coronavirus Updates (Campus) March 2, 2020 - In an effort to provide streamlined communication regarding the coronavirus, we have developed a website to house resources and updates. Access prevention tips, proper handwashing techniques and more at memphis.edu/coronavirusupdates. Public Health Preparedness Committee Named (Campus) March 2, 2020 - In response to the communication that was sent on Friday, February 28, concerning our coronavirus preparedness group, additional committee members have been named. ... Coronavirus Preparedness Update (Campus) February 29, 2020 - I wanted to provide a brief update based on the Tennessee Higher Education Commission, the Tennessee Department of Health and the Tennessee Emergency Management Agency meetings yesterday. ... Campus Coronavirus Preparations (Campus) February 28, 2020 - The University of Memphis leadership has an active planning and management group coordinating with the Office of the Governor, the Tennessee Higher Education Commission, the Tennessee Emergency Management Agency and the Tennessee Department of Health’s Epidemiology Unit regarding recommendations, guidelines and preparations for any potential impact of the coronavirus. ... Coronavirus Precautions (Campus) January 28, 2020 - University of Memphis leadership is proactively monitoring an outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a new coronavirus (termed “2019-nCoV”) that was first detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China, and which continues to expand. ... Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.