Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate) Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate) The Graduate Certificate in Diversity Leadership in Higher Education provides a broad range of knowledge related to the field of diversity. Become a reflective practitioner who can lead and support formal and informal learning collaborations by diverse groups in a variety of educational settings. The graduate certificate program includes a sequence of courses that explores all aspects of diversity in education. Learn how to develop partnerships and create change within an institution, and understand methods for evaluating diversity initiatives. Prepare to be the facilitator of diverse groups in a variety of settings and help create self-awareness among individuals’ positions and attitudes about diversity. Each course builds on the knowledge of the previous course to develop responsible, ethical leaders able to collaborate in an increasingly diverse world. Who might be interested? This graduate certificate is open to Temple students and employees, as well as outside professionals interested in advancing their knowledge and skills in diversity leadership and facilitation. Curriculum You must complete six credit hours (two courses) in order to earn the certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include diversity and inclusion strategies, emotional intelligence, and school-community partnerships. View the complete Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate) curriculum. Delivery Method All courses are delivered in the classroom on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. You can enroll part- or full-time and have up to two years to complete the certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Higher Education EdD Higher Education MEd Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Urban Education Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success Digital Education Leadership Institutional Effectiveness Student Affairs Leadership Teaching in Higher Education Urban Education Voluntary Internships Internships give you opportunities to get hands-on experience, refine your understanding of your coursework and make professional contacts who can assist your future career development. Internships are voluntary experiences that take place outside of the program curriculum: students do not receive credit for internships. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Joseph Paris, assistant professor of instruction, is the faculty program contact for the Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-2810 Email: joseph.paris@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-DLHE-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.