Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites About Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership Executive Vice Chancellor Robert D. Simari, M.D. Strategic Plan Advancement Board KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership Executive Vice Chancellor Robert D. Simari, M.D. Strategic Plan Advancement Board KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift About University of Kansas Medical Center Leadership Team Leadership at KU Medical Center is guided by a vision to lead the nation in health care education, healing, teaching and discovery. Robert Simari, M.D. Executive Vice Chancellor KU Medical Center rsimari@kumc.edu University of Kansas Medical Center 2032 Murphy Administration Building Mail Stop 2015 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 Members of the Leadership Team Abiodun Akinwuntan, Ph.D., MPH, MBA Dean, KU School of Health Professions aakinwuntan@kumc.edu Becci Blaesing Vice President for Medical Development, KU Endowment rblaesing@kuendowment.org Donna Clausen Director, Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor dclausen@kumc.edu Emily Diederich, M.D. Director, Zamierowski Institute for Experiential Learning Assistant Vice Chancellor for Simulation ediederich@kumc.edu Kimberly Gibbens, J.D. Deputy General Counsel kgibbens@kumc.edu Robert Klein, Ph.D. Vice Chancellor for Academic and Student Affairs rklein@kumc.edu Natalie Lutz Director of Communications nlutz3@kumc.edu Sally Maliski, Ph.D., RN Dean, KU School of Nursing smaliski@kumc.edu Robert McCormack, MPA Director, Government Relations rmccormack@kumc.edu Jerrihlyn L. McGee, DNP, RN Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion jmcgee@kumc.edu Garold Minns, M.D. Dean, School of Medicine-Wichita gminns@kumc.edu Robert P. Moser, M.D. Dean, KU School of Medicine-Salina rmoser@kumc.edu Akinlolu Ojo, M.D., Ph.D., MBA Executive Dean, School of Medicine aojo@kumc.edu Matthias Salathe, M.D. Interim Vice Chancellor for Research msalathe@kumc.edu Ryan Spaulding, Ph.D. Vice Chancellor for Community Engagement rspaulding@kumc.edu Steven Stites, M.D. Vice Chancellor for Clinical Affairs sstites@kumc.edu David Vranicar, MBA Vice Chancellor for Finance/Chief Financial Officer dvranicar@kumc.edu Steffani Webb, MBA Vice Chancellor for Administration swebb@kumc.edu Brian A. White, J.D. General Counsel and Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs brian-white@ku.edu Last modified: Nov. 17, 2020 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.