Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News CUIMC Update - May 26, 2022 May 26, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News CUIMC Employee Makes Big Difference at Commencement with Small Act of Kindness May 26, 2022 While volunteering at a CUIMC graduation ceremony, Patty Conde, a human resources staff member, provided special assistance to a visiting family. Topic Campus News Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian May 24, 2022 The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Cancer Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers May 23, 2022 Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Mental Health CUIMC Update - May 18, 2022 May 18, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Student Stories from the Class of 2022 May 18, 2022 This year’s graduates have faced unprecedented challenges but have completed their degrees while continuing to give back to their communities. Topic Campus News Screening Program Could Identify 1 Million Americans with Genetic Heart Disease May 17, 2022 A combination of genetic and lab testing could identify 1 million Americans who are at risk of early death from heart disease because they carry a gene that causes high cholesterol. Topic Heart Health Drugs for Celiac Disease May Be on the Horizon May 12, 2022 More than a dozen experimental drugs designed to help people with celiac disease are now in clinical trials, raising hope that gluten could one day be back on the menu for many. Topic Gastroenterology VP&S Academy of Clinical Excellence Inducts Fifth Class May 12, 2022 Forty-two clinical faculty members were inducted into the Academy of Clinical Excellence in recognition of their outstanding patient care. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - May 11, 2022 May 11, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top