Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Baylor>Giving to Baylor>Priorities>Academic Units>University Libraries University Libraries The Baylor Libraries support the mission of the University by undergirding scholarship, fostering teaching and learning, and building communities. We thank you for your interest in the mission and vision of Baylor University and invite you to make a gift to support students and faculty through the work of the Libraries today. Baylor Book Society University Libraries are committed to supporting new areas of research through a robust endowed fund. Currently, the Library Endowed Book Fund holds just short of $400,000. The University Libraries have set a goal of a $1 million balance to help support Baylor's research aspirations. Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Honor or memorialize a graduate, friend, professor or relative with a one-time gift of $50 or more. A bookplate with the name of the donor and the honoree is placed in the front of each title, and written notification of the gift is made to the donor and to the honoree. Chairs for Bears Over the past five years, the Libraries have upgraded the furnishings in Moody Library to include new tables, lighting, carpet and flooring. Upgrading our existing seating remains a top-level project. A donation to Chairs for Bears, through the Dean's Excellence Fund, will provide the resources our students deserve: modern, functional, and comfortable new chairs. Dean's Excellence Fund Gifts help enrich students' experience by providing technology updates, securing research materials and improving library study areas throughout each of the university libraries. Funding faculty use of Open Educational Resources emphasizes public domain and freely available resources wherever possible, thereby reducing the out-of-pocket textbook costs incurred by students. Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Endowed Fund Lanella Spinks Gray, current chair of the Library Board of Advisors, has been an influential partner in sustaining Baylor's ties to its historic roots in Independence. An endowed fund created in her name supports the ongoing efforts to preserve Baylor's rich heritage. Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund This fund provides paid internships for Baylor students within the University Libraries. Dr. Sue Margaret Hughes served with the Baylor University Libraries for 31 years in a variety of roles, and her fingerprints are on many of the ways students are served by the libraries today. Contact Us To learn more about opportunities to give to the Baylor Libraries, contact Brett Evans, Assistant Vice President for Development. Brett Evans Assistant Vice President for Development Brett_Evans@baylor.edu Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Endowed Scholarship College of Arts & Sciences Excellence Fund James Vardaman Endowed Professorship William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Center for Church and Community Impact Drs. Preston and Genie Dyer Endowed Scholarship Diana R. Garland Endowed Scholarship Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Excellence Fund Global Mission Leadership Initiative Houston MSW Excellence Fund W.O. Carver Endowed Fund George W. Truett Theological Seminary Building & Grounds Improvement Fund Dean's Excellence Fund Doctor of Ministry Endowed Scholarship Fund Faith & Sports Institute Fund Friends of Truett Scholarship Fund Truett Alumni Endowed Scholarship Fund Hankamer School of Business HSB Endowed Scholarship Fund HSB Excellence Fund HSB Faculty Development Fund Honors College Baylor Interdisciplinary Core F. Ray Wilson Endowed Scholarship Great Texts Fund Honors College Excellence Fund Honors Program Philanthropy & Public Service Excellence Fund Philanthropy & Generosity Endowed Fund University Scholars Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Baylor University LHSON Missions LHSON Alumni Endowed Scholarship Louise Herrington Endowed Scholarship Fund in Nursing Nursing School Excellence Fund Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Communication Sciences and Disorders Health, Human Performance and Recreation Human Sciences and Design Public Health Excellence Fund Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education Center for Community Learning and Enrichment Center for Developmental Disabilities Curriculum & Instruction Excellence Fund Educational Leadership Excellence Fund Educational Psychology Excellence Fund School of Education Excellence Fund School of Education Endowed Scholarship School of Engineering and Computer Science BUV (Basic Utility Vehicle) Competition Engineering and Computer Science Excellence Fund Engineering Endowed Scholarship Engineers with a Mission SAE Baja Competition School of Music Center for Christian Music Studies Daniel Sternberg Society Golden Wave Band Music Education Excellence Fund School of Music Endowed Scholarship School of Music Excellence Fund University Libraries Baylor Book Society Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Chairs for Bears Dean's Excellence Fund Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Endowed Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Backyard Ecology Hall Ellie Caston Education Enhancement Endowment Martin Museum of Art Excellence Fund Mayborn Museum Excellence Fund Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift