Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Surgery Fellowship Programs Surgical Critical Care Fellowship Department of Surgery Surgical Critical Care Fellowship The goal of the Surgical Critical Care Fellowship Program is to provide an educational setting in which the trainee gains concentrated experience in all aspects of the care of the critically ill (resuscitation, emergency management of life-threatening illness or injury, and long-term support for single or multi-system organ failure), administrative direction of an intensive care unit, development of educational programs and teaching skills, and clinical research. The trainees will learn the specific content (knowledge and procedures) by direct patient care under the guidance of the faculty. They will also participate in managing the units, including bed allocation, quality assurance monitoring, brain death certification, decisions regarding goals of therapy as well as end of life care , and nursing care. The fellow receives a salary equivalent to a PGY-6, and professional liability insurance, and four weeks of vacation. Rhode Island Hospital provides a portion of health, disability and life insurance. View more information on salary, benefits and support Clinical Experience During the fellow's one year program, additional didactic clinical education is provided through several weekly conferences, including two specifically for the fellows: the Critical Care Fellow's Conference and the Multidisciplinary Critical Care Conference. Fellows participate in a variety of curricula, courses and seminars as outlined below and may attain the appropriate credentials to become course directors in these educational endeavors if desired ATLS instructor/course director ATOM (advanced trauma operative management) instructor FCCS (fundamentals in critical care support) instructor Critical Care and Trauma Ultrasound/ECHO. Fellows are closely mentored by the program director during their training and encouraged to define and develop areas of interest that will enable clinical, research, educational, and administrative skills to be concentrated into a particular niche for long term academic growth and success. Numerous opportunities are available, some are illustrated below. Surgical Infectious Diseases Educational programs and clinical research initiatives are provided in the area of surgical infectious diseases offering unique research opportunities for Critical Care Fellows. Several faculty members have a particular interest and expertise in research in surgical infectious disease. A large database of nosocomial infections exists to support research endeavors. Surgical Nutrition The adult nutrition support service consults all patients on TPN and provides consultation on complex GI dysfunction and critical illness as well as combined TPN/TEN nutrition therapy. Divisional members serve as co-directors of the nutritional support service. Research The division has a very active program in clinical and basic research. Ongoing NIH funded clinical research provides access to research opportunities for fellows. The Division also participates in numerous multi-center trials in the areas of trauma, critical care, burns, and surgical infectious diseases. The Division maintains a Surgical Critical Care database and an extensive trauma registry. Learn about surgical research at Brown How to Apply Candidates must submit the application and supporting materials, including a C.V., one letter of recommendation from the Chairman of the Department of Surgery, and 2 letters of recommendation from other faculty in the Department of Surgery, to the Division of Surgical Critical Care. Click here to apply Contact Us Chief, Division of Surgical Critical Care Charles A. Adams, Jr., MD [email protected] Program Coordinator Leslie Cabana [email protected] 401-444-0326 Who We Are: Perspectives from residents and fellows: Overview of GME: Home About Surgery Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Advanced Laparoscopic Surgery Fellowship Colorectal Surgery Fellowship Pediatric Surgery Fellowship Surgical Critical Care Fellowship Medical Student Training Diversity Print this Page Share this Page Rhode Island Hospital Brown University 593 Eddy Street, APC 4 Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-5180 Fax (401) 444-6681 The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift DIVERSITY Surgery Dept Brown Minority House Staff Association