Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Related Links Undergraduate Admission Maps and Directions Campus Life Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Visit Us About Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Visit Us Our beautiful, welcoming campus features tree-lined walkways, splendid architecture, abundant green space, and plenty of quiet corners to study, relax, and reflect. Boston College students also enjoy convenient access to downtown Boston—one of the world’s most vibrant cities and an innovation hotspot full of networking opportunities. Related Links Undergraduate Admission Maps and Directions Campus Life Take a Virtual Tour of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Loading... This content requires HTML5 with CSS3 3D Transforms or WebGL. Click and drag for 360-degree view 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Explore the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences 1 Gasson Rotunda 2 Gasson 100 3 Fulton Debate Room 4 The Plaza in Front of O’Neill Library 5 Gasson Quad 6 Campus Green 7 Stokes Hall Lobby 8 Stokes Auditorium 9 Bapst Library 10 Higgins Hall atrium 11 Merkert Chemistry Center 12 Bonn Studio Theater « Previous Next » Choose a location Gasson Rotunda Gasson 100 Fulton Debate Room The Plaza in Front of O’Neill Library Gasson Quad Campus Green Stokes Hall Lobby Stokes Auditorium Bapst Library Higgins Hall atrium Merkert Chemistry Center Bonn Studio Theater Map Gasson Rotunda The Gasson Rotunda is located at the center of the University’s oldest building, Gasson Hall. Surrounded by murals of notable Jesuits, the space features a white Carrara marble statue of the Archangel Michael triumphing over Satan. Gasson 100 Originally designed as the University’s assembly hall, Gasson 100 currently serves as a center for special events, lectures, and performances. Fulton Debate Room Located on the third floor of Gasson Hall, the Fulton Debate Room is adorned with long columns to record the winners of the Fulton Prize Debate and a ceiling covered with the words of great orators: On one side, Demosthenes, Cicero, and Webster, in recognition of the civil; opposite them, the names of St. Paul, Bourdaloue, and Segneri, in recognition of the spiritual. The Plaza in Front of O’Neill Library The plaza in front of O’Neill Library, a major crossroad of activity and central gathering place at Boston College, is bordered by Gasson, Devlin and St. Mary’s Halls. Once made up mostly of brick and concrete, the plaza went through a complete transformation in 2012, part of the University’s efforts to create more green spaces on its Middle Campus. Gasson Quad Refurbished in 2013 as part of the University’s efforts to increase and connect the green spaces on Middle Campus, the Gasson Quad provides students with another gathering spot, as well as access to Gasson, Lyons, Fulton and Devlin Halls. Campus Green The Campus Green (also referred to as Stokes Lawn) was shaped in 2013 with the construction of Stokes Hall—home to many of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences’ academic departments. In addition to Stokes Hall, the green is surrounded by McElroy, Carney, McGuinn, Fulton, and Lyons Halls. Stokes Hall Lobby Stokes Hall, a 183,000-square-foot academic building completed in 2013, houses the classical studies, English, history, philosophy, and theology departments, the Academic Advising Center, and the First Year Experience offices, as well as 36 classrooms, conference rooms, and the Chocolate Bar, a coffee and pastry shop popular with students, faculty, and staff. Stokes Auditorium As the hub for the teaching of the liberal arts at Boston College, Stokes Hall’s 36 classrooms are busy, often hosting as many as 175 classes on any given school day. Higgins Hall atrium The Higgins Hall atrium was created in 1997 when the building was expanded to meet the needs of the University’s growing science programs. Higgins Hall is home to offices, classrooms, state-of-the-art core facilities, and research laboratories for the physics and biology departments. Merkert Chemistry Center The 109,000-square-foot Merkert Chemistry Center houses modern research laboratories in organic chemistry, chemical biology, and physical chemistry. The building also offers students and faculty access to cutting-edge instrumentation and specialized research facilities. Bonn Studio Theater The Bonn Studio Theater, located in the Robsham Theater Arts Center, is a black box performance space ideal for student workshops and smaller scale productions than would be performed in the University’s premier performance space, the 567-seat Robsham Main Stage. Bapst Library The Bapst Library is home to Gargan Hall, whose lofty ceiling, stained glass windows, and wood panelling distinguish it as a gem of collegiate gothic architecture and make it a popular spot for quiet study. The building also serves as the University’s art library, housing archives, databases, and journals that offer support to students studying art history, architecture, museum studies, and photography. Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College