Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Research Leadership AAA About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us Research Leadership The over 200 professionals in the Office of the Vice Provost for Research & Scholarship oversee and support all aspects of research and is organized into five administrative sections: Research Development & Evaluation, Research Capacity & Operations, Research Administration, Regulatory Affairs and Assessment, and Research Communications and Dissemination. Erin Kobetz Professor ekobetz@miami.edu (305) 243-6185 Log in to view address Dr. Erin Kobetz is Vice Provost for Research and Tenured Professor in the Departments of Medicine, Public Health Sciences, and Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine. Additionally, she is Associate Director of Population Science and Cancer Disparities at UM’s Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer... Read More > Tonya Sautier Sr. Business Officer, Finance and Administration tsautier@miami.edu (305) 243-7808 Log in to view address As Senior Business Officer for the Office of the Vice Provost for Research + Scholarship, Tonya Sautier leads all aspects of budget, finance, human resources, operations, administration, and special projects for the organization. She serves as the principal liaison between the Vice Provost and University administration, departmental... Read More > Research Development & Evaluation Research Development & Evaluation teams are dedicated to matching researchers and scholars with funding, collaborators, and all the tools they need to succeed. These teams help researchers and scholars Get Started, Identify Opportunities, and Write Your Proposal. Sheela Celeste Dominguez Executive Director, Strategic Operations sdominguez@miami.edu (305) 243-9051 Log in to view address As Executive Director for Strategic Operations and co-administrator of the Miami Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI), Sheela leads reporting, evaluation, finance, project management, and programmatic activities. She serves as the primary liaison between the CTSI with the Office of the Vice Provost for Research + Scholarship,... Read More > Research Capacity & Operations Research Capacity & Operations teams oversee all shared services used in research, from animal facilities to information technology. These teams help researchers Submit Proposals and Conduct Research. Allen Mora Executive Director, Research Intelligence & Capacity Allen.Mora@miami.edu (305) 284-3906 Log in to view address As Executive Director of Strategic Initiatives for the Office of Research Administration, Allen Mora oversees a great and diverse team of 16 individuals. He and his team are responsible for training and communications for ORA, support of research administration applications such as IBISResearch and ECRT, document and data management, reporting... Read More > Julia Zaias Research Assoc. Professor jzaias@miami.edu (305) 243-2310 Log in to view address Julia Zaias, DVM, PhD, DACLAM is Director of the Division of Veterinary Resources and an Associate Professor of Pathology in the Division of Comparative Pathology. In this role, Dr. Zaias is the lead for ensuring the safety of animals in University laboratories and compliance with regulations regarding animal studies. She received her... Read More > Raquel M. Zamora Sr. Manager, Information Technology rzamora1@miami.edu (305) 243-2750 Log in to view address Raquel Zamora, Manager of the Research Intelligence and Data Infrastructure team, serves as liaison between the research community business unit leads, stakeholders, system end-users and respective external system vendors to ensure research systems managed by Research Intelligence and Data Infrastructure are in alignment with research enterprise... Read More > Research Administration Research Administration teams are responsible for grant and gift applications and management, the negotiation of contracts, and financial oversight of sponsored projects. These teams help researchers and scholars Submit Proposals and Conduct Research. Laura B. Kozma Assoc. VP, Research Administration lbk53@miami.edu (305) 284-3965 Log in to view address Laura Kozma, Associate Vice President for Research Administration, provides leadership for sponsored administration which includes proposal review and approval, contract negotiations, award management and compliance monitoring, and serves as audit liaison for the Institution for sponsored awards. In this same capacity, she is also responsible... Read More > Edwin Bemmel Executive Director, Research Administration ebemmel@miami.edu (305) 284-1243 Log in to view address Edwin Bemmel is the Executive Director, Post Award in the Office of Research Administration and leads all aspects of Award Setup, Award Administration, Financial Reporting, Billing, Collections, Cash Management, and Audits for sponsored awards. Edwin joined the university of Miami in 2015. He earned a Doctor of Philosophy in Educational... Read More > K. Brandon Strickland Executive Director, Research Administration kxs1198@miami.edu (305) 284-3952 Log in to view address Brandon Strickland serves as the Executive Director of Research Administration, Pre-Award for the University of Miami. In his position he directs all facets of Pre-Award in the Office of Research Administration, which is responsible for submission, negotiation, and award set up. Brandon has a Bachelor's in Biosystems Engineering from Auburn... Read More > Regulatory Affairs & Assessment Regulatory Affairs & Assessment teams are dedicated to ensuring the integrity, safety and compliance of the sponsored programs we undertake. These teams help researchers and scholars Submit Proposals and Conduct Research. Johanna Stamates Assoc. VP, Regulatory Affairs and Assessment jstamates@miami.edu (305) 243-4215 Log in to view address Johanna Stamates holds a master’s degree and a bachelor’s degree in hospital economics and nursing, and completed several certifications for the conduct of research and research compliance. With over 30 years of combined experience in healthcare, Total Quality Management (TQM), research management and research compliance, she... Read More > Cindy Gates Human Subjects Research Officer cmg345@miami.edu (305) 243-7943 Log in to view address As Executive Director for the Human Subject Research Office (HSRO), Cindy leads the HSRO, a team that supports the University's five Institutional Review Boards (IRBs). She also serves as theUniversity's Research Conflict of Interest Committee Chair. Cindy is responsible for ensuring that the IRBs protect research participants'... Read More > William Jesus Collins Director, Compliance wjc59@miami.edu (305) 284-9558 Log in to view address William J. Collins has served as the Director of Export Control Compliance for the University since March 2017 and oversees the Export Management Compliance Program. He previously served as an Empowered Official with the Boeing Company, and was employed at NASA Kennedy Space Center as a federal civil servant and U.S. government... Read More > Lory Hayes, Ph.D. Director, Compliance lhayes@miami.edu (305) 243-5036 Log in to view address Within UM’s Office of the Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship (OVPRS), Lory Hayes is the Director of Disclosures & Relationship Management (DRM). The role of the DRM and the UM COI Committee is to determine whether an investigator’s relationship with an external entity creates a situation that could introduce bias... Read More > Ellen Kapsalis Director, Compliance ekapsali@miami.edu (305) 243-2311 Log in to view address As Director of Compliance for the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) and the Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight committee (ESCRO) under the direction of the Vice Provost for Research + Scholarship, Ellen Kapsalis provides oversight and leadership to University's research program... Read More > Kenia Francis Viamonte Director, Human Subject Research (HSRO) kviamonte@miami.edu (305) 243-9672 Log in to view address As Director for the Human Subject Research Office (HSRO), Kenia oversees the review of human subject research studies, the regulatory team that conducts HSR reviews, the five Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) and several compliance initiatives. She started at the University in 2002 at Medical Human Resources, where she was the recruiter for... Read More > University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices