Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Counseling Master of Science in Counseling Master of Science in Counseling Admission and Financial Information SMU Masters in Counseling Program Scholarships Annual Student Handbooks Program Calendar 2021-2022 Course Schedule Curriculum Resources Graduate Writing Center Services About Faculty and Staff Center for Family Counseling Resources ☰ Previous Next pause play hide show Master of Science in Counseling Academics Counseling Graduate Studies Master of Science in Counseling Counseling Graduate Studies CACREP Accredited It's Not Just a Career. It's a Calling. SMU is seen as a leader in counseling education, and our students are often requested for internships and counseling positions. With SMU's Master of Science in Counseling Program, you'll gain more than a degree. You'll get an education, training, and credentials that will ensure that you stand out in the job market, and make an outstanding impact in the lives of clients you serve. Admissions & Financial Information Curriculum Contact Us Apply The Master of Science in Counseling program prepares students for the counseling profession, which involves the application of the developmental and social sciences in assisting children and adults with psychological growth and social adjustment problems. Counselors work in schools, community agencies, churches, hospitals, and private practice. The counseling program provides the elements necessary for certification, licensure, and actual counseling practice. Students acquire knowledge in the disciplines that underline counseling, including education, psychology, human development, sociology, learning, and social change. They develop the basic skills in therapy and assessment and become familiar with the legal and clinical considerations confronting practitioners. Repeated practice and role playing with feedback and strategic modification are critical to mastery of the skills, as is the completion of a year-long Practicum and Internship experience. Successful graduates are able to pursue State Licensure as Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFT), Licensed Professional Counselors (LPC), or School Counselors. The opportunity to be licensed as a Chemical Dependency Counselor (LCDC) in the state of Texas can be incorporated in the LPC graduate plan as well. Master of Science in Counseling Admission and Financial Information Scholarships Annual Student Handbooks Program Calendar 2021-2022 Course Schedule Curriculum Counseling Course Descriptions Graduate Writing Center Services Upcoming Events Request info Contact the SMU Program in Counseling Call or Email Us 214-768-5678 counselingmaster@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us SMU East Campus 6116 N. Central Expressway Suite 300 Dallas, Texas 75206 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter