Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityCollege of Nursing College of Nursing About About Welcome from the dean About the college Why Marquette? Mission & vision Accreditation Research Office of Nursing Research Faculty Programs of Research Research Faculty Directory Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Learn more about all of our institutes, centers and initiatives within the College of Nursing. Connect with us News and events Academics/Research Academics Research Students Current Students Future Students Equity/Inclusion Overview Committee Members Initiatives Resources Faculty/Staff Directory: Administration Faculty Part-time Faculty Research Faculty Pleasant Prairie DE MSN Project BEYOND-2 Staff Student Services Alumni Giving College of Nursing Diversity & Inclusion Statement The Marquette University College of Nursing community is committed to increasing diversity and promoting a sense of belonging for all. Read our Diversity & Inclusion Statement. Statement of Solidarity -- Marquette Nurses Against Injustice The College of Nursing expresses outrage and horror for the killing of George Floyd and the many others who have been victims of racial injustice. We write to communicate our support to our entire community. Read our statement. Updates and information from Marquette University about coronavirus are available here. News and Events News The College of Nursing is engaged in a search for dean as Dr. Janet Wessel Krejci retires. Interested individuals may apply here. U.S. News & World Report published its first-ever undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) rankings. Marquette University College of Nursing ties for a rank of 43 out of almost 700 universities! The College of Nursing is excited to announce the launch of a telehealth-virtual care accelerator, expanding and evolving holistic digital care delivery models. The college received a $1.5 million start-up grant from a private family foundation to advance telehealth care practices to better prepare future nurses and provide timely care to the community’s diverse patient populations. The College of Nursing’s Project BEYOND-2 program to empower diverse nurses is the cover story of the latest edition of Hispanic Outlook on Education magazine. College of Nursing announces 2021 Nursing Preceptor Service & Excellence Awards TFE Times ranks Marquette MSN program 61 of 190. U.S. News & World Report releases rankings The College of Nursing’s Master of Science program is now ranked No. 60 (previously No. 69), while its Doctorate program rank moved down to No. 82 (previously No. 69). For all rankings, click here. President Lovell announces transformational gift for College of Nursing A $31 million gift from alumni couple Darren and Terry Jackson will fuel scholarships, increase diversity, drive innovative health care advances and support strategic initiatives. U.S. News ranked Marquette's online graduate nursing program 47th in 2021, up from 58th in 2020. More news is available on our News & Events page. Events In case you missed it! A recording of September 16 The Future of Nursing is Now! Being the Difference: The Marquette Nurse and Leadership is available. In case you missed it! A recording of the April 28 The Marquette Nurse: Building the Future for the College and Community is available! In case you missed it! A recording of the March 31 Leaders in Nursing Program featuring Julie Creamer, MS, RN In case you missed it! A recording of the November 10 James Wake Memorial Lecture 2020 is available! "Amplifying the Child and Family Voice in Pediatric Serious Illness" with Dr. Joanne Wolfe In case you missed it! A recording of the October 21, 2020 Fall Leadership Program is available! "Building Cultures of Innovation: Leading through Crisis" with Dr. Daniel Weberg Quick Links Welcome from the Dean About the College Why Marquette? Faculty/Staff Directory Academic Programs Research Institutes, Centers and Initiatives Project Beyond-2 Employment with the College of Nursing News and Events Mission and Vision Accreditation Apply Contact the College PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact munursing@marquette.edu. Nurse Magazine Check out the new 2021 Nurse magazine. Nursing Viewbook Our students gain advanced healing knowledge and clinical skills as just one part of preparing for the profession. Learn more. News Read more about the College of Nursing through our news and events page. Location Marquette University Emory T. Clark Hall, 265 Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-3800 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©