Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Nursing Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Nursing About Us Dean's Message Mission Faculty Staff Instructional Design and Technology News and Events Organizational Chart Prospective Students Doctor of Nursing Practice program Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs How to apply Students with International Transcripts Information Sessions Tuition and Fees Current Students Scholarships Student Expectations Student Resources Policy Orientation Computer Requirements Commencement and Pinning Ceremony Diversity Center for Diversity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Simulation Center Preceptors Community Health Clinic Contact Tracer Program Alumni Giving Giving Opportunities Giving FAQ Thank You to Our Supporters Make a Gift Today! Development Office Contact Us UH Home College of Nursing Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs RN to BSN Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Student Handbook RN to BSN Program Requirements Degree Plan Transfer Plans Frequently Asked Questions Application Checklist Second Degree BSN Traditional BSN Track Scholarships Search CON search RN to BSN The RN to BSN track is offered at the University of Houston at Sugar Land, University of Houston at Katy, and face-to-face/web-enhanced classes or hybrid/online. The track is designed to work around your busy schedule. You’ll receive a Tier One university education from excellent faculty at a great value. Lab and/or clinical course requirements will be in a face-to-face learning environment for practice and demonstration to meet course objectives and accreditation requirements. Our innovative RN to BSN program will allow you to advance your career by completing your BSN degree. Finish the program in as little as a year. Program Description The primary educational objective of the RN to BSN completion program is to increase the career and educational opportunities available to registered nurses in the university’s service region. Graduates of the program will have a broader understanding of the nursing profession and will bring that understanding to the practice of nursing in their places of employment. Graduates will be prepared to assume some leadership and management roles. Program Goals Synthesize knowledge from the biological sciences, social sciences, behavioral sciences, humanities, and nursing to provide appropriate culturally sensitive care to individuals, families and communities. Demonstrate effective interpersonal communication, collaboration with other professionals and leadership, and management skills. Critically analyze and apply research findings to nursing practice related to disease prevention, health promotion, illness care, and restoration of health. Utilize critical thinking skills to evaluate the outcomes of nursing care. Serve as client advocates by providing health education and in monitoring and promoting access to cost-effective care. Encourage lifelong learning and create a foundation for graduate study. Integrate professional values and ethical, moral and legal aspects of nursing into practice in a variety of structured and unstructured settings. To find out about the RN to BSN program requirements, visit Community College Transfer Plans, Program Requirements or email nursing@uh.edu for general information. Conversations with RN to BSN students: Pursuing a BSN at UH Testimonial from the community University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies