Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Meet the Provost The Portfolio Academics Dean Searches Beasley School of Law Dean Search Search Advisory Committee Katz School of Medicine Dean Search Search Advisory Committee Schools & Colleges Faculty Awards Great Teacher Award Laura Carnell Professorship Lindback Award Merit Awards Part-Time Faculty Excellence in Teaching and Instruction Provost's Award for Teaching Excellence in GenEd Research & Creative Achievement Awards Resources News About Temple University Visit Apply Alumni TUPortal Office of the Provost Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Opportunity. Engagement. Discovery Opportunity. Engagement. Discovery Meet the Provost Meet the Provost Learn more about Gregory N. Mandel, senior vice president and provost of Temple University and Peter J. Liacouras Professor of Law. Meet the Provost View page Faculty Excellence Temple celebrates faculty who go above and beyond in their fields to achieve excellence — whether it's in the classroom, lab or community. View page Faculty Excellence View the Portfolio The Portfolio The Provost supports a portfolio that extends across the University's 17 schools and colleges and encompasses several administrative units. View the Portfolio The Portfolio Meet the Provost Meet the Provost Learn more about Gregory N. Mandel, senior vice president and provost of Temple University and Peter J. Liacouras Professor of Law. Meet the Provost View page Faculty Excellence Temple celebrates faculty who go above and beyond in their fields to achieve excellence — whether it's in the classroom, lab or community. View page Faculty Excellence View the Portfolio The Portfolio The Provost supports a portfolio that extends across the University's 17 schools and colleges and encompasses several administrative units. View the Portfolio The Portfolio Latest Stories See All Stories Temple Made for … building community Temple Made for … building community Temple Made for … building community Temple Made for … building community May 18 Name: Mohammad HadaihedMajor: Doctor of PharmacyTemple Made moment: My first introduction to Temple came before I was a student there. A couple years after moving to the... Temple students to complete passenger survey for the Philadelphia International Airport Temple students to complete passenger survey for the Philadelphia International Airport Temple students to complete passenger survey for the Philadelphia International Airport Temple students to complete passenger survey for the Philadelphia International Airport May 13 As America still navigates through an uncertain post-pandemic world, one thing is very clear: Airports are busy again. ... Temple’s 135th Commencement in photos Temple’s 135th Commencement in photos Temple’s 135th Commencement in photos Temple’s 135th Commencement in photos May 13 Temple University's 135th CommencementCongratulations, Class of 2022! View the Gallery keywords .sh_embed { position: relative... Temple Made for … her dream job Temple Made for … her dream job Temple Made for … her dream job Temple Made for … her dream job May 05 Name: Rachel Edwards... Temple Made for … using data to solve problems Temple Made for … using data to solve problems Temple Made for … using data to solve problems Temple Made for … using data to solve problems May 05 Name: Srikar Katta... Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of the Provost Sullivan Hall, First Floor 1330 W. Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.