Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Get involved Faculty and staff Faculty and staff Close Menu Home Get involved Alumni and friends Students Senior Class Gift Student Calling Program Parents Faculty and staff Payroll Deduction Endowment Matching Campaign has successfully concluded! Thanks to your incredible support, the $5 Million in University matching dollars has been fully committed. Your gifts to endowed scholarships and graduate fellowships will greatly help students today and in the future. Retired? You can stay involved by joining the UW Retirement Association or supporting UWRA scholarships and fellowships. Check it out today! Payroll Deduction spreads the love over time For current faculty and staff members payroll deduction is a convenient way to make your gift to the areas you care about most! Why We Give Back “We discovered giving was easy and enjoyable when we got to witness the impact on students." Tomilynn, Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts & Sciences and Dean McManus, Professor Emeritus, Oceanography Making a Difference Together As faculty and staff, you invest your time and talent everyday to make the UW the best it can possibly be. Through your efforts, you help to educate tomorrow’s leaders, inspire innovation, and transform lives. Thank you for all that you do to make the University of Washington extraordinary. Last year, faculty and staff, across our campuses and medical centers, came together to make a difference for UW and all who benefit. Regardless of size, your gift counts you among those who don’t just say they believe in UW and its mission – they show it. Your participation can support any area you choose– from student scholarships and faculty development to funds that will create a healthier tomorrow for Washington and the world. Your donation of any size makes a difference. Giving is easy! You can help make a difference at UW by supporting your passion in a variety of ways. Make a one-time donation online. Make a donation spread out over the year through payroll deduction. Mail a check to the UW Foundation, Box 359505, directed to your priority area. Download a payroll deduction form and mail it to the UW Foundation. Consider a tax free Charitable IRA Rollover Thank you for ensuring a bright future for Washington and the world! Questions? Send an email 1-877-UW-GIFTS (894-4387) or 206-685-1980 UW Office of Advancement 4333 Brooklyn Ave. NE Box 359504 Seattle, WA 98195-9504 Home Get involved Alumni and friends Students Senior Class Gift Student Calling Program Parents Faculty and staff Payroll Deduction Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA