Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Connect High School Counselor Information High School Counselor Information Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming And Current Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers Mustang Strong. See information on COVID-19 for the SMU community here. Resources for those helping guide students to success on the Hilltop. Helpful information to use as you guide your students through the college search, application, admission, and decision processes. Please see our 2020-2021 Counselor Update here. Meet Your SMU Admission Counselor Connect with your assigned SMU admission counselor. Visit Visit SMU! We know you will love our beautiful 234-acre tree-lined campus. Select the Daily Visit tab and under the Student Type tab select High School Counselor. Virtual Connections Connect with the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission virtually. Information Sessions Learn about SMU by viewing pre-recorded videos of our first-year and transfer information sessions. Admission Events Prospective students can learn more about the Hilltop by attending one of our admission events. Admitted students will be emailed information regarding admitted student events. Academics SMU is home to 100+ undergraduate majors and 85 minors across five nationally recognized undergraduate schools. Student Affairs Learn about the student experience at SMU. Research SMU is a private research university with a legacy of scholarly impact, creating knowledge and leaders through research and graduate education. Athletics Pony Up! The Hilltop is home to 17 Division I sports teams in addition to many recreational sports. Applying to SMU See our admission options: first-year, transfer, first year international, readmission, and graduate studies. Scholarships and Financial Aid Did you know? 3 out of 4 SMU students receive scholarships and/or financial aid. Find more information about these services here. Yellow Ribbon The Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program (Yellow Ribbon Program) is a provision of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008. Learn about the Yellow Ribbon Program at SMU. Forms Access forms including the counselor's report/recommendation form and teacher's recommendation form. Resources View the Counselor Update - At a Glance, see any of our current publications, learn about Cox Business Direct Admission, and also see this document for your students: 5 Tips to Consider If You're Interested in a Career in Business. Connect Keep in touch with us! Sign up to receive updates and also access to a personalized resource page. You can also follow @smuadmission on social media - Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube. Counselors are also invited to connect with Dean of Admission and Executive Director of Enrollment Services, Elena Hicks. News SMU is proud to have named campus leader Maria Dixon Hall as Chief Diversity Officer. She will serve as a senior-level resource and a strategic partner who collaborates with SMU faculty, students, administrators, and staff – both initiating and reporting the outcome of diversity initiatives, policies, and programs. Office Location and Contact Information Physical Address: Laura Lee Blanton Building 6185 Airline Road, 2nd Floor Dallas, TX 75275 Mailing Address: SMU Undergraduate Admission P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275 Phone: 214-768-2058 Text: 214-768-9990 Fax: 214-768-1083 Email: ugadmission@smu.edu Office Hours: 8:30 am-5 pm CST This page was last updated on Thursday, February 11, 2021. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search