Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Center for Crops Utilization Research Search form Search Main menu Main Menu HOME ABOUT About CCUR Staff Affiliates Affiliations Advisory Council Directions WORKING WITH CCUR For Industry For ISU ISU–Cedar Rapids Partnership FACILITIES Pilot Plants Fermentation Facility Test Kitchens Meeting Areas EQUIPMENT Pilot Plant Equipment Fermentation & Downstream Process Equipment Dry Grind based Ethanol Production NEWSROOM News Events Publications Secondary menu Pilot Plants Fermentation Facility Test Kitchens Meeting Areas Fermentation Facility The Fermentation Facility is designed to help researchers to develop new fermentation and downstream processing technologies at small- and pilot-scale. The facility has equipment for scaling up the production of industrially important chemicals, chemical feedstocks, enzymes, and genetically modified organisms. Researchers have access to state-of-the-art equipment and expertise in the areas of microbial fermentation and product recovery. The Fermentation Facility is managed by the Center for Crops Utilization Research with additional funding provided by the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Fee-For-Services The Fermentation Facility offers a wide range of services to industry clients and University researchers to assist in the development of new fermentation and downstream processing technologies at a reasonable cost. View a list of the fermentation and downstream processing equipment. Fermentation Small-scale fermentation process development (2L, 5L, 10L, 15L) Pilot-scale fermentation process development (500L, 1000L, 1200L) Downstream Processing Continuous centrifugation Membrane filtration Cell homogenization Pasteurization (Vat pasteurization & HTST/UHT) Evaporation Pilot-scale liquid chromatography Spray drying Freeze drying Drum drying Workforce Development and Training Industry fermentation and downstream processing workshop Industry fermentation and downstream processing workshop Contact Information Dr. Youjie Xu Fermentation Scientist 1041 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011-1054 (515) 294-9461 youjiexu@iastate.edu Dr. Zhiyou Wen Director, Center for Crops Utilization Research 1041 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011-1054 (515) 294-0426 wenz@iastate.edu Center for Crops Utilization Research 1041 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames IA 50011-1054 ccur@iastate.edu 515-294-0160 phone Twitter Instagram Email Newsletter Site Index Site map Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility