Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) provides support for students managing issues related to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in an academic environment. We review symptoms, current functioning, and past history of problems with students concerned they might have this disorder or who have been diagnosed with ADHD in the past and provide a variety of appropriate treatment options. Evaluation of ADHD Effective treatment of attentional problems requires accurate diagnosis. However, the diagnosis of Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is complicated. Difficulty with focusing and completing work is common for students at times of increased stress and during periods of adjustment. Distinguishing between ADHD, other disorders that impair focus, and normal problems with concentration requires a thorough and thoughtful assessment that requires several visits. The extra time and care it may take in getting diagnosis right increases the likelihood that the treatment we recommend will be effective. If you have previously been diagnosed with ADHD and would like to transfer your care to CPS for short-term treatment, or have never been diagnosed, but would like to be evaluated for ADHD, please carefully review the instructions outlined below to help facilitate your initial appointment with us. This service is only available to students who have paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee Please note that CPS does not prescribe refills for stimulant medications prior to the completion of our assessment process. We suggest that you reach out to your current/most recent prescribing physician for continuing care or prescription refills—if needed—until your evaluation has been completed at CPS. In addition, CPS cannot provide documentation for academic accommodations through Disability Services prior to the completion of our assessment process. The procedures described here are used in determining the appropriateness of a psychiatric consult and a possible trial course of medication. Students requiring academic accommodations will need to connect with Disability Services and provide additional documentation. The ADHD Assessment Process at CPS Services at CPS ordinarily begin with a brief phone assessment that can be scheduled by calling 212-854-2878 during regular business hours. During your phone appointment, a CPS provider will review the ADHD assessment process with you and will assist you with scheduling an initial appointment. The clinician will send you further instructions, via secure messaging on the Patient Portal, that will help expedite your assessment. Prior to your first intake appointment We ask that you submit a variety of documents that are critical in assessing ADHD as they provide a window into possible attentional impairment in different settings and at different times of life. These documents are best submitted as attachments to the above-mentioned secure message. Sending the documents before you arrive for your scheduled initial ADHD assessment appointment will help expedite the process. Alternatively, you can bring them as hard copies to your initial assessment. Please consider the time you will need to gather these documents when scheduling your initial assessment. If you need more time, please call to re-schedule. Requested documents: As reasonably available, please provide the following: If you have previously been diagnosed with ADHD, learning disability, or another mental health condition: testing results or documentation of former evaluation/ treatment/neuropsychiatric assessment. If you have never been evaluated for ADHD, but have previously been in treatment for another mental health condition, please obtain copies of your treatment records. Please note: outside clinical records may not satisfy the requirements of the CPS ADHD assessment, even if they contain a diagnosis of ADHD Academic records (transcripts) from elementary school through present. Additionally, report cards, IEP/accommodations documentation, and formal or informal feedback/comments from former or current educators Student Questionnaire (Optional) Work-related feedback: If available, work performance evaluations or other forms or written evaluation between you and a supervisor. Your CPS provider will offer further education and guidance about ADHD throughout the evaluation process to help you understand what’s going on. After the Assessment If you are diagnosed with ADHD, you may be referred to a psychiatrist for a medication evaluation. You may also make use of other CPS services, including short-term counseling, time management and procrastination workshops, and medication management. We also assist with referrals for ongoing care. Your primary care provider at Columbia Health Medical Services may participate in an interdisciplinary team with your CPS provider to give you the highest quality of care. In some cases, your provider may recommend that you register with Disability Services to request academic accommodations related to attention issues or learning difficulties If diagnostic interviews prove inconclusive or raise questions that can best be answered by neuropsychological or psychoeducation testing, CPS can assist you with referrals to those off-campus resources. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions What is the impact of attentional issues? Attentional issues may create academic difficulties and adversely affect work, social activities, and relationships with friends and loved ones. This is an opportunity to review whether attentional problems stem from ADHD, other factors such as anxiety or stress, or from a combination of factors. Why is the evaluation evaluation process so complex? We want to provide the best care possible and that starts with accurate diagnosis. There is not a specific test that can determine whether or not an individual has ADHD. The diagnosis of ADHD is made based on a comprehensive clinical assessment. This may include information from multiple sources, including rating scales, getting history from you, your family, physicians/mental health professionals, academic/vocational records, and current or former teachers. Why do I need another ADHD evaluation if I have had one in the past? Even if you are currently being prescribed medication for ADHD by a physician outside of Columbia Health or have been diagnosed with ADHD in the past, in the interest of ensuring you receive the highest quality care possible, we provide a careful re-evaluation, since situations can change over time. Functioning may improve or worsen with changes in life circumstance and age. Similarly, the effectiveness of treatment interventions, including medications, may change over time, and need to be reviewed periodically. Academic Accommodations The procedures described here are used in determining the appropriateness of a psychiatric consult and a possible trial course of medication. Students requiring academic accommodations will need to connect with Disability Services and provide additional documentation. Disability Services provides nonclinical consultations to students experiencing academic difficulties related to attention issues or learning difficulties and evaluates all requests for academic accommodations related to the disorder. Students must register with Disability Services for such requests. Related Resources Centers for Disease Control (CDC): Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Medical Services Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close