Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases dance program UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation Septrember 18, 2019 - Onstage Blog has listed the University of Memphis among the Top 30 College Dance Programs in the nation for 2019-20. The schools were selected on criteria that included cost vs. scholarships, quality of facilities, performance/production opportunities and post-graduate support, as well as diversity of students and faculty. A new consideration this year was security, both on- and off-campus. “I am delighted that our dance program has been recognized for excellence in the company of the best dance departments in the nation,” said Dr. Anne Hogan, dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts. “I am very proud of the work of our talented faculty and students in the UofM Dance program, and our new Dance Science concentration is a unique component of our high-quality training and committed mentoring.” The Dance Science curriculum combines courses drawn from the BS in Health Studies concentration in Exercise, Sport and Movement Sciences and the BFA in Theatre concentration in Dance. The program includes dance training and skills in areas such as nutrition, biomechanics, exercise physiology, psychology and kinesiology. “Our collaborative dance science program allows students both in Communication and Fine Arts and Health Studies to merge their mutual interests to gain training and knowledge in both areas – something that may increase job opportunities upon graduation,” said Dr. Richard Bloomer, dean of the School of Health Studies. The goal, said Theatre & Dance Chair Holly Lau, is to train graduates for careers in a variety of related fields, such as health and wellness advisors for dance companies and trainers in fitness clubs. The concentration also will allow students who take additional classes and degrees to pursue careers in physical therapy or dance medicine. “It creates a dancer who really is best aware of her own body and how to take care of her own self,” Lau said. “Every single one of our dancers teach. They are really very skilled, careful, healthy teachers. So no matter what else they do in their life, they have this. “We are so pleased to be recognized as a high-quality dance program in the company of the best dance departments in the nation. UofM Dance is a vital and thriving program. Along with our new Dance Science concentration, our award-winning faculty is dedicated to developing each student’s artistic voice and creative potential through excellent training, enriching internships and committed mentoring.” This year the blog decided not to rank the schools 1-30. Since the programs often are separated by only one or two points, they are listed in no particular order. The UofM appears along with such prestigious dance programs as NYU Tisch School of the Arts, Juilliard and North Carolina School of the Arts. View the entire list here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.