Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Learning Contexts Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Presentations involving PowerPoint (and other software) are a popular platform for lecture material and can ease retention of course concepts. The following draws from scholarship about the most impactful formats for presentations that help students learn. 1. How much presentation do you need? Generally speaking, a slide is only helpful if it will: Introduce important concepts or complex material Involve an image that you will concurrently narrate with lecture Highlight a brief, important quote that you will either unpack or expand upon with your lecture Present information that cannot be easily explained Connect to content from a previous or upcoming slide If a slide does not meet one or more of these criteria, consider using another medium (Niemer, 2014). 2. Initial slides may provide a brief, bulleted outline of the lecture and define important concepts. 3. Further slides should fall into one of several categories (Garner & Alley, 2013, 2016; Mayer, 2014; Overson, 2014): Evidence toward an assertion slides present an assertion (either at the top of the slide or verbally) with a graphic that explains that assertion. The graphic is then described and explained in detail verbally. Slides that signal key concepts or define key terms. This may be done by pulling out a quotation or definition, setting it off with a box, an arrow, or change in text color, and spending time unpacking meaning. 4. Regardless of the type of slide, the content should be kept simple (Mayer, 2014; Overson, 2014): Slides should not be verbatim repetition of lecture content. Graphics should be easy to read, without too many complex components. All slides should present the content in a simplified manner, reducing effort needed to connect lecture to the visual aid. Narration should reference and draw from the slides immediately present, as though you are in conversation with the presentation. 5. General advice on slide legibility: Maintain similar text formatting throughout the presentation, unless you are highlighting important material. Sans serif fonts are easier to read than serif fonts. Use appropriate capitalization. Fonts should be no smaller than 18-point to be legible or 24-point if you are providing definitions/quotes. Use colors that are on opposite ends of the color spectrum/starkly contrast each other. Avoid combinations that may be difficult for students with colorblindness to see as they are similar in hue or spectrum location (i.e. Green & Red; Green & Brown; Blue & Purple; Green & Blue; Light Green & Yellow; Blue & Grey; Green & Grey; Green & Black). Examples of slides that apply the principles above are offered below. (View/download a pdf of this resource for images; adapted from www.assertion-evidence.com): Image one is of a presentation slide where the heading has a placeholder for the “title of presentation in capital letters.” Below the heading, in slightly smaller print, text holds the place of an image that relates to and emphasizes the topic of the lecture. Image 2 is of a presentation slide where the heading has a placeholder for a “sentence that introduces the focus of the lecture,” and three placeholders below that for three lecture topics. Underneath the placeholders for topics are placeholders for related images. Image 3 is of a presentation slide where the heading has a placeholder for a “complete sentence that makes an assertion.” Underneath the heading, the slide is split in two. On the left, there is a placeholder for “arrows, callouts, attribution, etcetera, that highlight important material.” On the right, a box serves a placeholder for “content that provides evidence for the assertion. Image 4 is of a presentation slide where the heading reads “Remember to keep diagrams simple.” Below the heading are three figures, each with a caption. The first is of three rectangular blocks arranged as a pyramid, with two, two-way arrows connecting the box at the top of the pyramid with the two boxes at the bottom of the pyramid. A third two-way arrow connects the two boxes at the bottom of the pyramid. Underneath the diagram, the caption reads “Simple” with a thumbs up symbol. Beneath the caption is placeholder text where one can “add further details where needed here.” The second figure is of three layers of stacked boxes. Three boxes of equal width on the bottom, two boxes on the next layer where one is twice the width of the other. One large box that is the width of the two other layers sits on top. The caption reads “Less Simple” with a thumbs up symbol. Beneath the caption is placeholder text where one can “add further details where needed here.” The third figure is of a series of tightly packed, labeled circles, with a number of arrows connecting the circles. The figure is so dense so as to be illegible. The caption reads “A Bit Much” with a sad faced emoji. Beneath the caption is placeholder text where one can “add further details where needed here.” Fully describing visuals and unpacking definitions or quotes will be helpful for all students, including English Language Learners and students with disabilities. Sources Garner, J. K., & Alley, M. P. (2012). How the design of presentation slides affects audience comprehension: A case for the assertion-evidence approach. International Journal of Engineering Education, 29(6), 1564-1579. Garner, J. K., & Alley, M. P. (2016). Slide structure can influence the presenter’s understanding of the presentation’s content. International Journal of Engineering Education, 32(1a), 39-54. Mayer, R. E. (2014). Research-based principles for designing multimedia instruction. In V. A. Benassi, C. E. Overson, & C. M. Hakala (Eds.). Applying science of learning in education: Infusing psychological science into the curriculum (pp. 59-70). Retrieved from http://teachpsych.org/ebooks/asle2014/index.php Mayer, R. E., & Moreno, R. (2003). Nine ways to reduce cognitive load in multimedia learning. Educational Psychologist, 38(1), 43-52. Overson, C. (2014). Applying multimedia principles to slideshows for academic presentation. In V. A. Benassi, C. E. Overson, & C. M. Hakala (Eds.). Applying science of learning in education: Infusing psychological science into the curriculum (pp. 252-258). Retrieved from http://teachpsych.org/ebooks/asle2014/index.php Niemer, R. [CRLTeach]. (2014, January 24). PowerPoint based on the science of learning [Video File]. Retrieved from: Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Learning Contexts Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top