Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Teacher Education (BS) – Art Ed – Education Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Teacher Education B.S. - Art Education program offers students the option of two tracks: Art Education - Education Track and Art Education - Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification). The Education Track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, K-12 schools that require certification. This Teacher Education BS – Art Education program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Teacher-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution. Complete EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes The courses designated in (General Education), (Education Common Program Prerequisites), and (Core Requirements: Basic Level) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. The Education Track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 4th Grade Math Teacher 7th Grade Social Studies Teacher Bilingual Kindergarten Teacher Counselor Education Professor Early Childhood Teacher Elementary School Band Director Elementary School Teacher Head Start Teacher High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School History Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Teacher Junior High School Teacher Literacy Education Professor Mathematics Education Professor Middle School PE Teacher Nursery Teacher Pre-K Teacher Primary Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Teacher Education (BS) - Art Ed - Education Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Teacher Education B.S. - Art Education program offers students the option of two tracks: Art Education - Education Track and Art Education - Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification). The Education Track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, K-12 schools that require certification. This Teacher Education BS – Art Education program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Teacher-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution. Complete EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes The courses designated in (General Education), (Education Common Program Prerequisites), and (Core Requirements: Basic Level) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. The Education Track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. Education Core Requirements 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following EDG 4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) and TSL 4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) are prerequisites to Internship I. Complete the following: EDG4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) EDF4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment (3) EDF4603 - Analysis and Application of Ethical, Legal, and Safety Issues in Schools (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) RED4043 - Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 (3) Education Track Specialization Requirements 57 Total Credits Complete all of the following ARE 4453 is taken three (3) times. ARH 2050 - History of Western Art I (3) is required for the major and may be completed in the GEP. ARH 2051 - History of Western Art II (3), ART 2300C - Drawing Fundamentals I (3), ART 2201C - Design Fundamentals-Two Dimensional (3), GRA 2101C - Introduction to Computer Art (3) are prerequisites for Internship I. Complete the following: ARH2051 - History of Western Art II (3) ART2300C - Drawing Fundamentals I (3) ART2201C - Design Fundamentals-Two Dimensional (3) GRA2101C - Introduction to Computer Art (3) ART2203C - Design Fundamentals-Three Dimensional (3) ART2301C - Drawing Fundamentals II (3) ART2754C - Beginning Ceramics (3) ART2500C - Beginning Painting (3) PGY2401C - Beginning Photography (3) ARE4356 - Teaching Art Appreciation & Criticism in the Classroom (3) ARE4351 - Teaching Art in the Elementary School (3) ARE4352 - Teaching Art in the Secondary School (3) ARE4250 - Art for Exceptionalities (3) Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: ARE 4453 - Studio Experiences in Art Education (3) Taken three times for a total of 9 credit hours Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Any 3000 or 4000 level ART, ARE, ARH, GRA, PGY (with advisor's approval) (3) Internship I Block 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Prior to Internship I, the student must have completed EDG 4410 , TSL 4080 , Common Program Prerequisites, ARH 2050, ARH 2051, ART 2201C, ART 2300C , GRA 2101C, and at least 50% of all required specialization courses indicated with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission into Internship I. Passing score on the General Knowledge Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is required before entry into Internship I. Passing score on the Professional Education Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is strongly recommended as soon as possible after completing the following courses: EDG 4410, EDF 4467, RED 4043, and TSL 4080. Students must apply and be approved for Internship I. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: ARE 3940 - Internship Internship II Block 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following All specialization courses and all education core courses must be completed with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better before entry into Internship II. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission to Internship II. Passing scores on all sections [General Knowledge, Professional, and Subject Area (Art K-12)] of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) are required prior to entry into Internship II. Satisfactory completion of Internship II requires the student to demonstrate proficiency in all Florida Educator Accomplished Practices in accordance with State Board of Education rule 6A-5.066. Students must apply and be approved for Internship II. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process Complete the following: ESE4033C - Critical Issues and Trends in Secondary Education (3) Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: ARE 4941 - Internship Grand Total Credits: 87 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida