Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad Clemson Global Travel Registration STUDENT GUIDELINES FOR UNIVERSITY-RELATED INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL: Students who are traveling outside of the U.S. for a university-related purpose, such as conducting research or attending a conference, need to register their travel in the Clemson Global Travel Registration Portal. This applies to graduate and undergraduate students alike as well as creative inquiry, student organizations and other similar groups. If your international travel is for credit, please reach out to abroad@clemson.edu for the proper procedure. The registration process assists students to think through their preparation for travel and ability to access risk at their destination. Higher risk destinations will undergo further review by Clemson’s High Risk Travel Advisory Group (HRTAG). As of March 2022, HRTAG reviews all student travel due to the Travel Advisory Levels issued by the Department of State and the CDC. (For students considering organized study abroad programs go to Summer 2022 Approved Programs and Fall 2022 Approved Programs). Procedures: Complete the Clemson Global Travel Registration. In preparation to do so, read the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory to the destination, and have available details of local accommodation and transportation, proposed travel plans, local contacts, etc. After submission, the petition will be forwarded to the HRTAG for review. Petition notification will be sent to the student and their supervisor/advisor. If the petition is approved, the student will purchase travel insurance and register in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program. Students traveling as part of their assistantship or university employment should complete the following. We advise to work on this concurrently while waiting for HRTAG's response. Submit the International Travel Authorization Form for appropriate approvals prior to approval for work from abroad http://www.clemson.edu/procurement/documents/travel/foreigntravelrequest.pdf Follow the checklist for International Travel listed at: http://www.clemson.edu/procurement/travel/ In the Case of Changing Circumstances: If prior to travel, Clemson University can withdraw authorization for travel if the situation in the area changes prior to departure. If circumstance changes after travel has commenced, authorization to continue the travel will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Resources: U.S. State Department Travel Advisories OSAC Crime and Safety Reports CDC Travelers’ Health For additional information contact abroad@clemson.edu. Home How to Apply Preparing for Your Experience Healthy and Safe Abroad Financing Your Experience While Abroad Covid-19 Updates FAQs Contact Us Login Information For Incoming Exchange Students Clemson Global Travel Registration Faculty and Staff Parents Returning to Clemson Related Links Passport Information US Department of State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Office of Global Engagement Office of Global Engagement International Students English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram