Skip to main content UCF Downtown Navigation Campus Experience Academics Transportation News FAQs For Employees Orlando’s University Coronavirus Updates: Click here for more information Skip to Section Dreaming Big A 21st-century city needs a 21st-century campus. A place where new ideas can flourish from a foundation that’s built on innovation. One that will transform lives and our community for decades to come. UCF Downtown, in partnership with Valencia College, brings more than 7,000 students to live, learn and work in downtown Orlando, creating a game-changing campus in the heart of our great city. Opened in August 2019, this transformational project, which kick-starts Orlando’s public-private Creative Village, will increase access for students, provide pathways into high-demand career fields, foster collaboration with our neighbors in meaningful ways and improve countless lives through the power of education. UCF Downtown About the Campus UCF Downtown is a 15-acre campus located in Orlando’s Creative Village. Made up of several buildings, the new shared campus incorporates innovative technology to create a 21st-century learning environment. The campus’ proximity to Orlando’s Central Business District places students within walking distance of job and internship opportunities, and makes it easy for faculty to invite guest speakers to campus or collaborate with professionals in their field of study. Explore Further Learn more about the campus Learn more about the construction of UCF Downtown View the UCF Downtown Calendar Click for a larger view. Downtown Orlando About Downtown Orlando Although Orlando has traditionally been known for its sunny weather and world class theme parks, the city is also home to Florida’s largest university–the University of Central Florida. Our growing city is leading the nation in job growth, attracting some of the nation’s biggest names in business and building a strong talent pipeline in our region. Downtown Orlando is the heartbeat of our city’s startup community, emerging arts scene, sports and entertainment district, and restaurants. Learn more about Downtown Orlando Downtown Events May 31 6:00 pm Yoga Join us for an evening Yoga class in the Group Ex Studio on the 2nd Floor of UW! Feel free to bring a mat and a water bottle. No reservation needed! Jun 1 3:00 pm Open Hours: Fitness Assessments Join us for a free fitness assessment today; where you can track your fitness journey and get a few tips from our certified personal trainers! Jun 1 5:30 pm Bootcamp Join us for a Bootcamp class in the Group Ex Studio on the 2nd floor of UW! This involves bursts intense and alternate activity as well as functional fitness using whole-body, multi-joint exercises! No reservation needed, remember to bring some… View All UCF Downtown Events Latest Updates CannonDesign Receives ACUI 2022 Outstanding Facility Design Award for UnionWest at Creative Village The Association of College Unions International (ACUI) has recognized the University of Central Florida and Valencia College’s collaborative UnionWest at Creative Village for a 2022… May 18 Knights at Work Downtown: Service to Community Inspires Communication Alumna to Continue Education By: Stephanie Rodriguez ’20 and Jamie Giller Built with the vision of increasing access for students into high-demand career fields, minutes from their classrooms, UCF… May 16 Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education May 16 Helios Education Foundation and UCF Invest $3.25 Million in New Downtown Scholars Initiative Apr 21 PHOTOS: First Ever Black and Gold Takeover Day at Jones High School On March 2, 2022, UCF, in collaboration with the Parramore Education and Innovation District, held its first Black and Gold Takeover Day at Jones High… Apr 11 UCF Downtown In The News Asian American & Pacific Islander Heritage Month: Meet UCF Professor Stella Sung WFTV Channel 9 Legal studies department to offer new environmental law class in the fall NSM Today How Central Florida colleges are partnering with businesses to meet workforce needs Orlando Business Journal Knight in shining armor: Helios offers seniors at three Orlando schools pathway to college WMFE 90.7 News UCF’s second annual Undergraduate Law Forum hosted in person, presented student research NSM Today View More News Contact Us UCF Downtown will continue to grow and succeed with input from faculty, students, staff and the Orlando community. Leave a comment or submit a question about this game-changing project. Address 500 W. Livingston Street, Orlando, FL Phone 407-823-3573 Get in Contact with UCF Downtown University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida