Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close Angeline Pendergrass Assistant Professor Earth and Atmospheric Science 2126 Snee Hall a.pendergrass@cornell.edu Back to Directory Biography Angie Pendergrass has a BS in meteorology/math and physics from the University of Miami, and an MS and PhD in atmospheric science from the University of Washington. She then joined the National Center for Atmospheric Research as an Advanced Studies Program postdoctoral research fellow. After moving to CIRES at the University of Colorado as a Visiting Fellow, she returned to NCAR as a Project Scientist. She also spent one year as a visitor at ETH-Zurich in Switzerland. She joined Cornell as an Assistant Professor in 2020. Research Interests Dr. Pendergrass's research focuses on extreme precipitation and its response to climate variability and change. She studies extreme precipitation and its change holistically, at planetary scales and in the context of the distribution of precipitation in intensity, space, and time. Her research is grounded in a top-down approach that considers fundamental questions about precipitation and its change, including: what role does precipitation play in the flow of energy through the climate system, and what can we learn about precipitation and its change from this? How have extreme precipitation events changed in the past, how will change in the future, and what processes drive these changes? How accurately do models simulate the hydrologic cycle, and how can we improve their accuracy? What are the causes and consequences of changes in the hydrologic cycle for circulation of the atmosphere and ocean, climate sensitivity, and society? In order to address these questions, she develops compact but powerful and useful metrics to describe the characteristics of precipitation. Her toolbox includes theory, analysis of observations, and a hierarchy of models from fully coupled climate models to radiative transfer models and heuristic stochastic models. Atmospheric Science and Climate Climate and Paleoclimate Earth and Atmospheric Science Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Meteorology and Applied Climatology Education PhD in Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, 2013 MS in Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, 2009 BS in Meteorology/Math and Physics, University of Miami, 2006 In the News News Angeline Pendergrass recognized with Outstanding Early Career Award February 9, 2022 Angeline Pendergrass, assistant professor in the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, is the recipient of a 2022 Outstanding Early Career Award presented by the American Meteorological... Read more about Angeline Pendergrass recognized with Outstanding Early Career Award More News Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.