0 Skip to Content Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Folder: Artists Back Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Current Page: Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Folder: Fellows Back Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows Folder: About Back History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery Folder: News Back Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Thomas Roma Prints by Thomas Roma Thomas Roma's Dear Knights and Dark Horses, published by the Neiman Center in 2009, presents a powerful visual dialogue between two seemingly disparate themes of war: innocence and experience. The suite of ten photogravures juxtaposes five portraits of soldiers going off to combat with five images of coin-operated horse rides found on the streets of Brooklyn, NYC. The soldiers were photographed in the early morning hours of January 2004 in the Jamaica Armory, Queens, NY. The men were being deployed to the Iraq Theater of Operations. These soldiers were from the Army National Guardsmen of the 1st Battalion, 258th Field Artillery Regiment of the 42nd Infantry "Rainbow" Division. A history of this unit of guardsmen is found on an information sheet which comes with the portfolio. "The 258th Field Artillery traces its origins to the "Washington Greys" of the Revolutionary War. First organized in 1809, their unit insignia (which can be seen on their berets) is the Washington family coat of arms. Previous to the Iraq deployment, they had served in the War of 1812, Civil War, Spanish American War, World War I, World War II, and were among the first on the scene at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. The Rainbow Division was created when America entered the First World War in 1917 by combining National Guard units from twenty-six states and the Destrict of Columbia. Colonel Douglas McArthur, who helped form the division, is quoted as saying "the 42nd Division stretches like a rainbow from one end of America to the other," inspiring their nickname...In World War II, they were the first in their corps to enter Germany in March 1945, and on April 29 forward elements of the Rainbow Division were among those who liberated the Dachau Concentration Camp." In this set of prints, the juxtaposition of portraits of the young soldiers with the images of still horse rides pinpoints the harsh reality of war's repercussions on youth and how it perpetuates a state of lost innocence. The horses are riderless, caught in a constant mode of ready entertainment, offering to extend youth's capricious amusement. These images contrast starkly with Roma's soldiers, who have seemingly just dismounted from their childhood pasts. They stand ready for the challenge of their adult lives as participants in combat and war. Their expressions, captured in the photographer's lens, show anticipation, fear and resolute knowledge of what they will soon face, the possibility of their own mortality. Thomas Roma is a photographer who lives in Brooklyn, NY. He was Professor of Art and Director of Photography at the School of the Arts, Columbia University until 2018. Roma has twice received Guggenheim Fellowships and his photographs have appeared in solo and group exhibitions internationally, including one-person exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art and the International Center for Photography, New York. His books include: Found in Brooklyn, Come Sunday, Sunset Park, Higher Ground, Enduring Justice, Show & Tell, Sanctuary, Sicilian Passage, In Prison Air, On Three Pillars, and House Calls with William Carlos Williams (with Dr. Robert Coles). Learn more about this artist: Artist's Website Howard Greenberg Gallery MoMA Dear Knights and Dark Horses, 2009 Portfolio of 10 photogravures in an aluminum box Sheet: 16 ⅛ x 20 ⅜ inches, each Image: 9 x 12 inches, each Paper: Somerset Velvet Edition: 10 $9,000 for the set View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize View fullsize Sign up to receive news and updates. Email Address Sign Up Thank you! About | Purchase | Visit