Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Racism is a public health crisis The killing of George Floyd and the disproportionate impact that COVID-19 has had on people of color are only the two latest examples of how structural racism can lead to devastating outcomes. Harvard Chan School stands together and is committed to helping fight this longstanding racism. The information and resources below highlight work from members of the Harvard Chan School community aimed at addressing racism and, ultimately, at helping shape a fairer, more just, and healthier world. A Statement from Dean Michelle A. Williams “I can’t breathe.” That was George Floyd’s final plea before his life was taken by a police officer kneeling on his neck… the very same plea uttered by Eric Garner before he died at the hands of police in 2014. The Harvard Chan School community shares in the despair and outrage over these killings… continue reading Sections: In focusNewsOp-edsEvents In focus Podcast: We’re better off with health equity Better Off, May 2021 read article How racism chips away at health In the News, April 2021 read article Q&A: Turning the words ‘racism is a public health crisis’ into action Featured news, June 2020 read article Q&A: COVID-19 pandemic highlights longstanding health inequities in U.S. In the news, June 2020 read article America is Failing its Black Mothers Harvard Public Health, Winter 2019 Read article Podcast: Discrimination in America This Week in Health, February 2018 listen to podcast back to top News Better data needed around deaths in police custody Two years after the killing of George Floyd by a police officer—and nearly 10 since the start of the Black Lives Matter movement—researchers are examining whether the ensuing protests and national conversation around racism and inequity have had… Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Nancy Krieger reflects on the still-relevant themes of a paper for which she was first author three decades ago about racism, sexism, social class, and health. Could breastfeeding explain disparities in sudden infant deaths? Melissa Bartick, an assistant professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and an MPH student at Harvard Chan School, studied whether not breastfeeding could be one possible explanation for demographic disparities in sudden unexpected infant deaths. Racial disparities in government responses to asthma-triggering housing conditions In Boston, people of color and poorer people are more frequently exposed to unhealthy housing conditions that can trigger asthma, and the city is typically slower to address these problems than in whiter areas, according to a new… Uncovering the health effects of the Great Migration Cecilia Vu, PhD ’22, uses her quantitative skills to explore the health of African Americans who left the South during the 20th century. More stories back to top Op-eds To tobacco companies, Black lives don’t matter By Chan School’s Mary T. Basset and Sandra Mullin (The Hill) Read op-ed The COVID-19 pandemic shows why we must—and how we can—end racial injustice in health By Chan School’s Howard Koh (TIME) Read op-ed Racism is a public health issue By Chan School Dean Michelle Williams (The Economist) Read op-ed Racism is a deadly virus, too: A public health defense of these mass protests By Chan School’s Mary Bassett, Caroline Buckee, and Nancy Krieger (New York Daily News) Read op-ed Racism is killing black people. It’s sickening them, too. By Chan School Dean Michelle Williams and Jeffrey Sánchez (Washington Post) Read op-ed Protest, demand change — but, please, put on your mask By Chan School’s Sara Bleich (The Hill) Read op-ed Protecting hungry children during the fight for racial justice Co-authored by Chan School’s Sara Bleich and Caroline Dunn (The Hill) Read op-ed back to top Events Racism as a traumatic stressor Special event, June 2020 watch event Voices in Leadership During Crises: Michelle Williams & Jeffery Sánchez Voices in Leadership, June 2020 watch event Mental Health and Wellness for Students of Color: Transitioning to College The Forum, September 2019 watch event The Spread of Hate and Racism: Confronting a Growing Public Crisis The Forum, February 2019 watch event Resources Black Lives Matter: antiracism and health suggested resources Harvard Countway Library Black American experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic Harvard Library #ShutDownSTEM resources Black Lives Matter National Black Lives Matter Boston Chapter Social Justice Training Institute Showing Up for Racial Justice Boston Suggested readings A history of race and racism in the U.S., in 24 chapters Ibram X Kendi for the New York Times Boston. Racism. Image. Reality. A 7-part series, conducted by The Boston Globe’s Spotlight Team, that examined racism and discrimination in Boston. A reading list on issues of race Harvard Gazette Racial justice, racial equity, and anti-racism reading list Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Chan School Office of Diversity and Inclusion Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College