Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. New UC nursing grad joins mom in Children's OR April 29, 2022 New University of Cincinnati nursing graduate Maddie Bell and mother, Cary Bell, '19, will work together in the Cincinnati Children's operating room. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. New UC nursing grad joins mom in Children's OR April 29, 2022 New University of Cincinnati nursing graduate Maddie Bell and mother, Cary Bell, '19, will work together in the Cincinnati Children's operating room. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. UC Blue Ash student manages terminal illness with goal of... April 25, 2022 Sydney Velazco has to take more than 30 oral medications and go through multiple therapy sessions every day just to manage her health, just to stay out of the hospital. She does this so she can spend her days in a dentist office helping others. Pay UC parking fines for a good cause March 29, 2022 Event: April 1, 2022 11:54 AM "Food for Fines” is going virtual April 1-29. To participate, UC parking citation holders should pay their violation fee(s) online by logging into their parking portal’s account, and choosing the “Food for Fines” option. In turn, Parking Services will make a St. George Interfaith Food Pantry donation that equals the citation’s total amount. Inaugural class of Marian Spencer Scholars announced February 8, 2022 The University of Cincinnati has awarded 10 high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools the new Marian Spencer Scholarship. Yahoo: Future University of Cincinnati Bearcats get surprised at... January 28, 2022 News media highlight UC's Decision Day records as students get surprised with admission and scholarships. UC surprises future Bearcats on Decision Day January 24, 2022 Decision Day marks the moment when thousands of incoming Bearcats learn they’ve been accepted to the University of Cincinnati. University officials surprised four area high school seniors at their schools and homes, making them among the first to be accepted into UC in 2022. UC nursing student unites Greek life for tornado relief January 24, 2022 A University of Cincinnati College of Nursing student is rallying UC's Greek organizations to support victims of a recent tornado outbreak in Western Kentucky. 'Unforgettable weekend': GameDay, Homecoming help Bearcats make... November 9, 2021 The University of Cincinnati was in the national spotlight with ESPN’s College GameDay and Good Morning America featuring the UC Bearcat football team's rise in football ranking. UC defeated the University of Tulsa on the football field during Homecoming. Fall food drive supports students in need over winter breaks November 1, 2021 Bearcats Pantry hosting fall food drive to support students in need over winter breaks. UC Blue Ash named one of the best places to work in Greater... October 20, 2021 UC Blue Ash wins Best Places to Work award. Pride at Lindner begins fundraising drive for first-of-its-kind... September 29, 2021 It started with a mid-summer check-in between student leaders and faculty advisors. Pride at Lindner’s (PaL) student executive board and its faculty/advisor leadership met to discuss strategic planning and goals for the upcoming school year and beyond. According to PaL advisor Nadia Ibrahim-Taney, those present overwhelmingly expressed the need for student financial aid, specifically an endowed scholarship. Such was the genesis of the Pride at Lindner Scholarship and Programming Fund, an endowed scholarship that would allow the current PaL team to leave a legacy for current and future LGBTQ+ students. UC’s Olympic poetry in motion July 22, 2021 Five former University of Cincinnati athletes and one current second-year student prepare to compete in the 2021 Tokyo Olympics in July and August, representing four nations in five athletic competitions. Former Bearcats include Annette Echikunwoke, hammer throw (Nigeria); Vanessa Gilles, women's soccer (Canada); Nate Fish, baseball (Israel); Jordan Thompson, volleyball (U.S.) and Lewis Johnson (NBC Sports TV broadcaster). Lawrence Sapp, second-year UC student will compete in the Paralympic swim competition in late August. UC grad balances motherhood, medicine and a major move June 4, 2021 Hagar Elgendy, a recent University of Cincinnati medical school grad, moves her husband, Cedric Peerman, a former Cincinnati Bengal player, and their four kids to North Carolina as she completes her medical residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top