Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Science and Technology Date October 5, 2021 2021-10-05 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow A virtual event celebrated the legendary Brown University computer science professor for his foundational work in computer graphics and five decades of influential teaching. PROVIDENCE, R.I [Brown University] — In recognition of his distinguished career as a computer graphics pioneer and educator, the Computer History Museum (CHM) in Mountain View, California, honored Brown University computer science professor Andy van Dam with a 2021 Fellow Award. In a late-September virtual event, van Dam was honored by luminaries including Ed Catmull, cofounder of Pixar Animation Studios; Eric Horvitz, chief scientific officer at Microsoft; and danah boyd, a Class of 2001 Brown graduate and founder of the research institute Data & Society. The event highlighted van Dam’s five-decade career, which includes foundational work in computer graphics as well as the development of hypertext, a precursor to modern webpages and hyperlinks. Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, the CHM is home to one of the world’s largest and most significant collections of computing artifacts and oral histories. The fellows program “honors distinguished technology pioneers — unsung heroes and legends — for their outstanding merit and significant contributions that have advanced computing.” “When I told my wife, Debbie, the great news of my election as a fellow of the CHM, she responded with: ‘Great, now you’re officially a museum piece!’” van Dam said. “For me, it is an incredible honor to be inducted in the Pantheon of the computer age, to be in the company of so many giants of our field.” Van Dam, who in 1966 received only the second Ph.D. ever awarded in the burgeoning field of computer science, joined the Brown faculty in applied math in 1965. He worked with colleagues John Savage and Peter Wegner to create Brown’s Department of Computer Science in 1979, and served as inaugural chair. His work in computer graphics helped to redefine how people interact with computers. He was co-author of the 1982 textbook “Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice,” which was the dominant introductory text in computer graphics for decades and remains influential today. His work is widely recognized to have influenced computer-aided design systems and modern animated films. Having invited van Dam to the premiere of the blockbuster “Toy Story,” the late Apple and Pixar founder Steve Jobs presented van Dam with a book on the making of the film that included the inscription, “You made it so.” In the late 1960s, van Dam and his students, in collaboration with colleague Ted Nelson, developed the Hypertext Editing System (HES), a revolutionary word processing system that used links and branching text to organize information. In the early 1970s, Van Dam used HES, and its successor FRESS, to create an early foray into the digital humanities — a course in which students used Brown’s room-sized mainframe computer to analyze poetry. The class “foreshadowed wikis, blogs and communal documents of all kinds,” van Dam said. Van Dam has taught thousands of students during his time at Brown, many of whom have gone on to become prominent computer scientists as well as leaders at companies like Pixar, Microsoft, Adobe and others. Van Dam later served as Brown's first vice president for research from 2002 to 2006. In becoming a CHS fellow, van Dam joins NASA mathematician and "hidden figure" Katherine Johnson, World Wide Web creator Tim Berners-Lee, software pioneer Rear Admiral Grace Hopper and other computing luminaries. Tags Research Related news: Science and Technology Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates May 19, 2022 Scholars from Rice and Brown universities say that next-generation wireless networks that use the technology could be designed with built-in defenses against the ‘metasurface-in-the-middle’ attack. Read Article Open details for Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates Science and Technology Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups May 4, 2022 New methods of analyzing DNA will allow for a better understanding of how genetic conditions affect different populations, ultimately enabling more targeted treatments. Read Article Open details for Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups Science and Technology Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion April 20, 2022 A self-propelled robotic swimmer, developed by Brown University students and faculty, could help researchers better understand the complex swimming behaviors of bacteria and other microorganisms. Read Article Open details for Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow Open details for Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow Bookmark this Page