Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Get Help Stalking What is stalking? Stalking is repeated harassment or threatening behavior toward another person. Stalking behaviors also may include persistent patterns of leaving or sending the victim unwanted items or presents, from the seemingly romantic to the bizarre, following or laying in wait for the victim, damaging or threatening to damage the victim's property, defaming the victim's character, or harassing the victim via the Internet by posting personal information or spreading rumors. Like domestic violence, stalking is a crime of power and control. According to results from the 2010 National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey, 1 in 6 women (16.2 percent) and 1 in 19 men (5.2 percent) in the United States have experienced stalking victimization at some point during their lifetime in which they felt very fearful or believed that they or someone close to them would be harmed or killed. Stalking is a crime under the laws of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the federal government. Laws vary by state, but stalking is generally defined as repeated (two or more occasions) visual or physical proximity, nonconsensual communication, or verbal, written, and/or implied threats, that would cause a reasonable person fear. (Tjaden and Thoennes,1998). The definitions under Rhode Island law can be found in the RI Statutes. What do stalkers do? Stalking behavior can take many forms and can vary greatly from situation to situation. Some common stalking behaviors include: Following you and showing up wherever you are. Repeatedly sending letters, emails and unwanted gifts. Repeatedly asking you out. Repeatedly calling you, including hang-ups. Causing damage to your home, car, or other property. Monitoring your phone calls or computer use. Using technology, like hidden cameras and computers to track you down. Driving by or hanging out at your home, school, or work. Threatening to hurt you, your family, friends, or pets. Finding out about you by using public records or on-line search services, hiring investigators, going through your garbage, or contacting your friends, family, neighbors, or co-workers. Other actions that control, track, or frighten you. To an outsider, the stalker's behavior might appear friendly and unthreatening, for example, showering someone with gifts or flattering messages. But, these acts are intrusive and frightening if they are unwelcome to the victim. Stalking behavior patterns closely mirror those common in abusive relationships. The pattern is usually triggered when the stalkers' advances toward their victim have been rejected-whether the stalker is seeking to establish a personal relationship or continue a previously established relationship against the wishes of the victim. The stalker may first attempt to woo the victim into a relationship, perhaps sending gifts like flowers or candy. When the victim rejects their unwelcome advances, the stalker often turns to intimidation. Intimidation may begin as inappropriate intrusion into the victim's life and these contacts may become more numerous and intrusive over time, until the behaviors form a persistent pattern of harassment. Many times, harassing behavior escalates into threatening behavior. These threats may be direct or indirect, explicit or implied by the stalker's conduct. Cases that reach this level of seriousness are particularly dangerous and can become violent. While this progression in behavior is common, no stalking case is completely predictable. Some stalkers may never escalate past the first stage. Others jump from the first to the last with little warning. Others regress to previous stages before advancing to the next. It is not uncommon for stalkers to intersperse threatening or violent episodes with flowers and love letters. Who are the perpetrators and victims of stalking? A stalker can be a stranger or someone the victim knows including a partner, an ex-partner, or a family member. Stalking is a crime that can impact anyone, regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, geographic location, or personal associations. However, the US Department of Justice reports that the overwhelming majority of victims are women (78%) and the majority of offenders (87%) are men. Nearly 60% of women and 30% of men who are stalked are stalked by a current partner. However, some stalkers develop an obsession for someone with whom they have no personal relationship. Because there is a wide range of stalking behaviors, it is virtually impossible to devise a single effective strategy that can be applied to every situation. For this reason, it is vital that stalking victims immediately seek advice to devise a safety plan for their unique situation and circumstances. For confidential support at Brown, you can contact the SHARE Advocates at 401.863-2794 or Counseling and Psychological Services at 401.863-3476. Brown students, staff and faculty can also access the safety planning services of the Crime Victim Assistance Unit of the Department of Public Safety at 401-863.2542. While there is no single psychological or behavioral profile for stalkers, forensic psychologists have identified two broad categories of stalkers and stalking behavior-dividing them into simple obsession and love obsession cases. 70-80% of all stalking cases fall under the simple obsession category, in which a personal or romantic relationship existed between the stalker and the victim before the stalking behavior began. These stalkers are commonly socially maladjusted, emotionally immature and extremely insecure. Their self-esteem is often closely tied to their relationship with the victim and, as a result, their greatest fear becomes the loss of this relationship, creating a dangerous dynamic. These stalkers can be most dangerous when their victims decide to end the relationship. Love obsession stalkers develop a love obsession or fixation on a person with whom they have no personal relationship. The target may be only a casual acquaintance or even a complete stranger. This category represents about 20-25% of all stalking cases. The vast majority of these stalkers suffer from a psychological disorder-often schizophrenia or paranoia. Nearly all display some delusional thought patterns or behaviors. In place of normal personal relationships, they invent fictional stories which cast their unwilling victims in the role of their own love interest. Love obsession stalkers expect their victims to play out the roles they have cast them in and believe they can make the object of their affection love them. They may attempt to force the victim to comply with threats, intimidation, or even violence. What should I do if I'm being stalked? If you are being stalked, trust your instincts and don't downplay the danger. Consider taking some or all of these steps: If you have not already done so, assertively communicate that you want the behavior to stop and set and maintain personal boundaries. Try not to allow yourself to be isolated with the person. Tell family, friends, roommates, and co-workers about the stalking and seek their support. Stalking behavior can be confusing and it can be challenging to sort out what's happening. For confidential support, you can contact the SHARE Advocates in BWell Health Promotion at 401.863-2794 or Counseling and Psychological Services at 401.863-3476. Memorize DPS's numbers and put them in your cell phone: 401.863-4111 (emergency) and 863-3322 (non-emergency). You can also call DPS from any of the blue-light phones on campus. Try not to walk alone, particularly at night. Utilize Safewalk (401.863-1079) and safeRIDE(401.863-2322) to navigate the campus or make plans for friends to accompany you. DPS also has a resource, the Brown Guardian, you may want to consider using in which you can set a timer between destinations. If it is not deactivated within that timeframe, DPS will be called. It is also a good idea to make a record of the stalking behavior. Keep a log including the date, time, what happened and the names of anyone who witnessed the incident. Save any packages, letters, messages or gifts from the stalker. Save all voicemail or text messages from the stalker. If you feel you are unsafe, you probably are and should seek help. Take threats seriously. Danger generally is higher when the stalker talks about suicide or murder, or when a victim tries to leave or end the relationship. Don't confront a stalker. Go to a safe space and call the police. The Office of Student Life may be able to provide you with a no-contact order if the stalker is another student. Call 401.863-3145 and ask to speak to the Dean of the Day. For more information and support, Brown students can contact the SHARE Advocates in Health Services at 401.863-2794 for a confidential meeting to discuss options available to promote your safety. Also, the Department of Public Safety Crime Victim Assistance Unit at 401.863-2542 provides specialized services. Their services include victim advocacy and support, safety-planning, information and assistance with protective orders. You are not required to file a police report in order to access these services. On-Campus Resources Campus, Confidential Resources: BWell SHARE Adovates (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment), [email protected], 401.863-2794, Ground Level of Health & Wellness Center, 450 Brook Street. The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community.*This is a survivor-centered resource for people who have experienced sexual harm. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Clinicians provide confidential crisis support, follow-up appointments, and 24-hour on-call services for any Brown student dealing with stalking. Located on the First Floor of the Health & Wellness Center, 450 Brook Street. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Chaplains Office 401.863-2344 The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Located in Page-Robinson Hall, Room 410. Campus, Private but NOT Confidential Resources: Department of Public Safety 401.863-4111 (emergency response) Emergency response and crime reporting available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. You can also contact the Crime Victim Assistance Unit at 401.863-2542 for information and support concerning University and Providence Police reporting options. Services include safety planning, victim advocacy, court accompaniment and assistance with obtaining restraining orders. Seeking help from the Crime Victim Assistance Unit does not require you to file a police report. Title IX Office (401) 863-2026 Information and support resources for the Brown University community around issues of sexual misconduct and Title IX. Office of Student Life/Administrator-on-Call 401.863-3145 (after hours, 863-4111) The Administrator-on-Call will provide support to any student reporting stalking behavior. A student can choose to file a complaint in the non-academic discipline system if the complaint is against another student. Related Links Stalking Resource Center The Stalking Resource Center from the National Center for Victims of Crimes offers extensive information for victims of stalking. National Institute of Justice A collection of resources on stalking from the National Institute of Justice, a division of the United States Department of Justice. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook