Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us Departments Departments Accounting Degree Programs Course Information MBA Accounting Courses Teaching Assistantships Research Tax Readings Group Research Colloquium Accounting Research Conference Lone Star Conference Texas Audit Research Symposium Texas Waterloo Tax Research Conference Research Centers Student Organizations EY Accounting Ambassadors Department News Advisory Council Contact Us BGS Texas BPP Minor Texas BPP Certificate Program Washington Campus Program About the Department Finance Degree Programs Course Offerings Centers Seminar Speaker Series Forum on Corporate Finance Texas Finance Festival Faculty and Staff Contact Us IROM Degree Programs Undergraduate Business Analytics Business Analytics Minor MIS SCM Risk Management Certificate Graduate Course Information IM Program Events Information MIS Mentor Program Sponsorship Information Contact IM Program Centers Faculty Directory Management Programs Undergraduate MBA PhD Courses Undergraduate MBA PhD Department News Contacts Marketing Programs Undergraduate Marketing Professional Sales and Business Development Minor Academics Marketing MBA Masters of Science in Marketing Courses Faculty Endowments Centers Sheth Doctoral Consortium Contact Us Research Faculty Publications 2020 2019 2018 2021 Conducting Research at McCombs Behavioral Research Lab Facilities Description Application Information Research Restart Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Faculty and ResearchDepartmentsBGS BUSINESS, GOVERNMENT & SOCIETY NAVIGATING THROUGH UNCERTAINTY Traversing today's complicated regulatory, political, legal, and ethical landscape requires leadership skill and societal awareness. We help understand and master these principles. DOING BUSINESS IN THE REAL WORLD Business is not conducted in a controlled laboratory. An enterprise cannot be explained solely through formulas or theories. Today's global marketplace is filled with cultural diversity, subtle shades of right and wrong, legal complexity, and political turmoil. We examine that environment through research and industry collaboration and help our students gain mastery of their future in this dynamic world. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS International Business The Business, Government & Society Department offers two undergraduate majors in International Business and two undergraduate minors. The minors are available to undergraduate students from across the campus. More on International Business Texas Business Public Policy Minor This minor is open to all UT undergraduate students who will graduate under the 2020-2022 and later Undergraduate Academic Catalog. Students better understand the impact of the political process on business and how to manage relationships with numerous stakeholders. Texas BPP Minor Texas Business Public Policy Certificate Certificate students gain an officially recognized concentration in the study of business and public policy. Graduates are well-rounded and more prepared to enter a career in law, governmental and non-governmental organizations, nonprofit organizations, and many others. Texas BPP Certificate WASHINGTON CAMPUS PROGRAM WASHINGTON CAMPUS PROGRAM BUSINESS AND POLITICAL POWER We offer a special section of GOV 312L in conjunction with UT’s Government Department, including five days in Washington, DC, with the Washington Campus Program. Students hear from and interact with leaders from every sector of the Washington power circle. The class has four sessions in Austin with Business, Government & Society Professor Adam Cobb. Explore the Washington Campus Program GRADUATE PROGRAMS Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility This MBA concentration is for students interested in positions dealing with CSR, ethics, and sustainability, or where these issues impact business strategy. Students gain the tools and knowledge to manage ethical and social responsibility in today's global economy.  Ethics and CSR Curriculum Public and Governmental Affairs This MBA concentration is for students interested in public and governmental affairs positions within business firms or where these issues impact business strategy. Students gain the tools and knowledge to manage regulatory, political, and legal issues in the business environment. Government Affairs Curriculum FACULTY AND RESEARCH FACULTY AND RESEARCH A GLIMPSE AHEAD Faculty researchers at Texas McCombs are experts in their respective fields and are featured regularly in various publications. Learn more about our instructors, their work, and what their findings might mean for what is to come. Faculty List Research Publications AFFILIATED CENTERS & INITIATIVES Global Sustainability Leadership Institute The Institute acts as UT Austin’s hub for social and environmental impact innovation, focusing on corporate sustainability, social entrepreneurship, impact investing, and ESG investing. More on GSLI Center for Global Business This faculty-led center advances global business acumen and engagement through outstanding teaching, research, outreach, and experiential learning that stretches international understanding. More on CGB Center for Leadership and Ethics The Center for Leadership and Ethics is changing how future leaders learn, grow, and lead through life-changing educational experiences and transformative research insights. More on CLE Center for Business, Technology & Law The Center's faculty, affiliated students, and corporate sponsors build an equitable, ethical, and sustainable framework for expanding digital innovation in human society. More on CBTL ETHICS UNWRAPPED This diverse and engaging video series for instructors and students highlights the science of behavioral ethics, values, and ethical leadership through case studies, interviews, and storytelling. With 130+ videos, 80+ cases, plus teaching notes, Ethics Unwrapped is used in 1,500+ campuses worldwide. Explore Ethics Unwrapped FACULTY IN THE NEWS Professor Werner Quoted in LA Times Changing the minimum age and the other proposed gun law changes are "marginal concessions,” said Werner. Read the Full Story Professor Werner Quoted in New York Daily News Boycotts rarely harm companies financially, but firms must weigh the social implications of their association with the NRA. Read the Full Story Opinion Piece by Professor Spence Blockchain-based local electricity trading is unnecessarily expensive and may create more problems than it solves. Read the Full Story JOIN US IN LEARNING The Government & Society/Bates Family Foundation Speaker Series is made possible by a generous gift by the Bates Family Foundation. We invite you to join us for an upcoming event. Events Calendar Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin