Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Simmons Research Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) The VR Surgery Simulator has been designed to reduce surgeon training costs through the combination of virtual reality simulation training with remote real-time supervision of surgical trainees. “If we can scale up the number of trained surgeons who can do different procedures, it will really impact the health of the continent.” –Eric G. Bing, MD, PhD, MBA The VRSS immerses surgical trainees in a virtual reality experience that facilitates the development of the psychomotor skills, sensory acuity, and cognitive planning that are required to perform complex surgical tasks. When combined with clinical training, virtual reality technology has the potential to significantly reduce the time and cost of achieving surgical proficiency in resource-constrained settings. The Problem Cervical cancer is one of the most common cancer-related causes of death in the developing world. Surgery is essential to treat the disease, but traditional mentor-apprentice methods of surgical training have failed to provide developing regions with an adequate number of trained surgeons, largely due to the training time required. As a result, cervical cancer patients in these regions typically spend excessively long periods on surgical waiting lists, during which time their cancers may progress or they fail to return for follow-up. Furthermore, as countries in the developing world implement and scale-up cervical cancer-screening programs, increasing numbers of women are diagnosed with advanced stages of cervical cancer that are only curable with surgical intervention. This relatively recent recognition of the alarming number of women in need has created an urgency to the task of developing ways to more effectively and efficiently train surgeons to treat cervical-cancer patients and prevent missed opportunities for cure. The Project Virtual Reality as a Low Cost, Scalable Solution The Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) project utilizes inexpensive, off-the-shelf virtual reality (VR) equipment designed for use with video games, resulting in a total cost of less than $2,000 USD per unit. The low cost of this technology makes it feasible to install surgery simulators in medical training facilities that could not previously afford them, thereby reducing the per-surgeon cost of surgical training and increasing the availability of trained surgeons in low-resource settings. VR surgery training aspires to create “pre-trained novices” who have mastered the psycho-motor skills, sensory acuity, and – to a lesser extent – cognitive planning of surgical tasks. Studies have shown that VR training can reduce training time needed for a novice to reach the skill level of an intermediately skilled surgeon by half. Similarly, studies have shown that VR-trained surgeons are much less likely to make errors than those who have completed standard training only. The Technology The Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator is a computer-based, interactive virtual reality program that runs on commercially available Oculus hardware. The simulator was built using standard VR development tools and applications that are commonly used by video game development studios and taught in top video game development education programs like SMU Guildhall. The Experience A VRSS trainees wears an Oculus Rift headset and holds an Oculus Touch wireless hand controller in each hand. The simulation starts in a virtual training room with guidance to help the trainee become comfortable working in a virtual environment. The trainee is represented by an avatar, whose hands, only, are visible. Once the trainee is comfortable, the simulation transitions to a basic operating room environment, featuring an operating table with a tray of instruments and a virtual patient prepared for surgery. The simulation begins at the point in the surgery where the key procedures for the training begin. Visual instructions are provided on a virtual monitor, and audio feedback is provided to reinforce procedural knowledge by guiding users through the steps. The headset view of each VR training session is recorded for review and reflection. The Future As of September 2018, the VRSS project is being evaluated in a randomized clinical trial with surgical trainees at the University of Zambia. Surgical trainees in the trial have been randomly assigned to one of two training conditions: VR-enhanced surgical training or traditional surgical training. The goal of this trial is to assess the feasibility of the technology and compare the effectiveness and cost of VR-enhanced training with that of traditional surgical training. The next phase of VRSS testing will focus on the adaptation and evaluation of tele-mentoring protocols to maintain or enhance surgical skills. As VR technologies advance, new systems that are completely portable and even more cost-efficient are expected to be released. As these systems become available, the VRSS team plans to utilize them to further reduce the cost of VR surgical training. This project is funded with support from the Medical Research Council, UK Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator Leadership Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter