Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Unite UW: Once united, never divided Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Unite UW: Once united, never divided Unite UW is an on-campus cultural exchange program that builds bridges between domestic and international students at the University of Washington. Program Goals Unite UW’s goal is to create a mutually-enriching international experience in a local setting. The program aims to engage student participants in cultural exchanges to enhance global understanding, overcome barriers and boundaries, inspire lasting international relationships and unify our campus. View our new website at unite.uw.edu https://uw-s3-cdn.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/117/2016/07/20194058/Promotional-video-Apple-Devices-HD-Best-Quality.m4v About the Program Unite UW connects domestic and international students at the UW through a unique seven-week program. Each Unite UW section has 30 participants who are paired up (domestic-international) for weekly cultural bonding activities. Small groups of pairs, led by a facilitator, will meet outside the program to encourage further cultural exchange. This complimentary program is offered every quarter in the academic year, and is not credit bearing. Join Unite UW for a fun, meaningful, and transformative experience! Applications for EFS 2022 If you are interested in a fun, cross-cultural exchange opportunity that can lead to lifelong friendships and increase your global perspective, apply now to participate in the special four-week EFS Unite UW program! This quarter we plan to run another in-person program, though we are carefully monitoring the public health situation and adhering to all university and public guidelines. If you see yourself as a leader and you enjoy leading small groups, have a passion for relationship building, and like to initiate activities, you can apply to be a Unite UW facilitator. Facilitators apply by: June 15th Participants apply by: August 1st Apply now! Tentative Schedule for EFS 2022 Stay connected Like the Unite UW Facebook page and follow us on Instagram! Dawgs go to Tulip Town Unite UW Scavenger Hunt Mt. Vernon Street Fair Food Week! Camping @ Mt. Rainier Interpretative Forest Art Global Potluck - Yum! Arboretum Canoeing Hear from our alumni “As a domestic student, my experience with Unite UW has broadened my understanding of the international community here at the UW. Cross-cultural understanding and the relationships I’ve made have helped me realize the potential and many opportunities to expand my own global understanding.” –Thomas P. , domestic first year student “I’m a shy person, myself, and it was difficult to talk to new people before this program, but since I joined, many people tried to talk to me and I felt like it’s my new American family!” –Erika A., second year exchange student “Unite UW experience was definitely one of the highlights of my freshman year. I learned so much from my partner, not only about him as a person, but also his family, views on things, people, school and life. After all, domestic and international students have so much in common… More than that, the time we spent together taught me to ask good questions and reflect on my past experiences. I really appreciated this opportunity to meet this new person who made me think and understand more than before.” –Xiange W., international first year student “Our cultures and backgrounds are part of the stories we tell, and if we’re open to hearing these stories, they become points of connections. I’ve gotten to experience these connections over a lunch of Indian dosa, a Japanese cooking session, and today’s dinner of Mexican-American Chipotle. For me, these Unite UW interactions did not feel “cosmopolitan”, “international”, or any other buzzword — they were simply interactions with fellow people.” “There are some stigma against international students on campus that even my perception of them were skewed. Unite UW helped me push down these stigma and barrier and encouraged me to reach out and build stronger relationship with people different than myself.” “Unite UW has challenged me to look at who I am trying to get to know, and who I am not. This inspires me to wonder about all the other people I pass on campus everyday. Where are they from? What is their story?” “The stories, experiences and personality types that make up Unite UW are so incredible. Going on adventures, grabbing coffee/lunch, and supporting friends at events have brought us closer and bridged the cultural divide.” “I love Unite UW because it puts individual connection in front of “political” slogan of cultural understanding. This family-like atmosphere promotes connecting & understanding of people around you, and cultural understanding follows. At this point, I find myself knowing a lot more of different cultures, but the friends and family I have here at Unite UW is indeed being put in the first place of my heart.” University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA