Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Military Science Dept. / Army ROTC Menu Constituencies Faculty/Cadre Prospective Students Cadets Parents About Us Cadet Life Army ROTC Events FAQs News Contact Us Overview and Benefits Leadership Course Army Nursing Program SMP Admissions Post-ROTC Careers Scholarships Scholarship Information: High School Scholarship Information: College Students Curriculum Campus Baylor>Army ROTC Army ROTC United States Army Reserve Officer Training Corps The Army Reserve Officer Training Corps has commissioned more than a half million Officers since its inception in 1916 when President Woodrow Wilson signed the National Defense Act. Army ROTC has provided leadership and military training at schools and universities across the country and is the largest commissioning source for our armed forces. Army ROTC is a diverse group of men and women with more than 20,000 Cadets currently enrolled. Women have been an integral part of Army ROTC since the first group of women was commissioned in 1976. Today, women constitute 20 percent of the Cadets. The Baylor University Bear Battalion is proud to be one the 273 host schools that produce approximately 60 percent of the Second Lieutenants who join the active Army, Army Reserve and Army National Guard. More than 40 percent of current Active Duty Army General Officers were commissioned through ROTC. Army ROTC provides Cadets with the character-building aspects of a diverse, self-disciplined civilian education with tough, centralized leadership development training. • Minimester session (5/16 - 6/02) • Juneteenth - University Holiday (6/20) • Independence Day - University Holiday (7/04) • Summer Session I (6/03 - 7/08) • Full Summer session (6/03 - 8/12) • Summer Session II (7/11 - 8/12) • Administrative Checks/Commencement Preparation (8/12) • Commencement (8/13) Warren E. Myers Memorial Scholarship Fund General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Constituencies Faculty/Cadre Prospective Students Cadets Parents About Us Cadet Life Army ROTC Events FAQs News Contact Us Overview and Benefits Leadership Course Army Nursing Program SMP Admissions Post-ROTC Careers Scholarships Scholarship Information: High School Scholarship Information: College Students Curriculum Campus