Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Orientation Activities Orientation Registration Bearcat Portal Orientation Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parking Family & Guests Bearcat Card Placement Testing About the Office Related Resources Welcome Weekend Parent & Family Programs New Student Convocation Visitors Orientation Access Your Bearcat Portal Access Your Bearcat Portal to register for Orientation. Orientation Checklist Got everything you need for Bearcat Bound Orientation? Find out here! Math Placement Test Be sure you complete your math placement test before your Bearcat Bound Orientation dates. Virtual Advising Prep Session Be sure you sign up for your Virtual Advising Prep session. Available in your Bearcat Portal. Welcome Week Learn more about all the events and programs happening on and around campus during Welcome Week! Bearcats Bound Orientation Don't forget Bearcats Bound Orientation is open! Sign-up in your Bearcat Portal today. Access your Bearcat Portal Bearcats Bound Orientation We are delighted you've chosen the University of Cincinnati as your new home, and we are confident you'll find your experience to be a remarkably rewarding one. Our top priority is to assist you in making a successful academic and social transition into the Cincinnati community. For this reason, all new students are required to attend an orientation program before their first semester of classes. New first-year students will not be able to register for classes until they have attended orientation. We encourage you to make the most of your orientation and set the foundation for a successful University of Cincinnati undergraduate experience. Sign-up for Bearcats Bound Orientation Eligible students will use their University of Cincinnati username and password in order to access many UC systems such as the Bearcat Portal which is how students will register for Orientation. Be sure that you are able to access your account. Set up your Cincinnati username and password. Bearcats Bound Orientation App Click here to download the UC Mobile App for access to Orientation schedules, student resources, and more. To access the desktop version of our app please click here. If you have additional questions regarding Orientation please contact us at 513-556-2486 or orientation@uc.edu. New Student Orientation University Pavilion, Suite 120C | PO Box 210090 Cincinnati OH 45221-0090 Phone: 513-556-2486 | Fax: 513-556-3728 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.