Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Inclusion Center Division of Student Affairs Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search InclusionOpen main menu Close Open search Programs Programs Adult Learner Gender & Sexuality Multicultural Indigenous Women & Gender Scholarships Support & Advocacy Events Resources Contact Us Contact Us Meet the Staff Schedule an Appointment at the IC Inclusion Center Newsletters Juneteenth Juneteenth Juneteenth Educate Celebrate Activate News Donate Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU You Have Value Land Acknowledgement Statement As a land-grant institution, Utah State University and all in-state Campuses and Centers reside on the territories of the eight tribes of Utah, who have been living, working, and residing on this land from time immemorial. These tribes are the Confederated Tribes of the Goshute Indians, Navajo Nation, Ute Indian Tribe, Northwestern Band of Shoshone, Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, San Juan Southern Paiute, Skull Valley Band of Goshute, and White Mesa Band of the Ute Mountain Ute. We acknowledge the historical context behind a painful history of genocide, forced removal and dispossession of tribal peoples’ lands on which USU exists. We acknowledge these land on which we gather carry the stories of these Nations and their struggles for survival and identity. We recognize Elders past and present as peoples who have cared for, and continue to care for, the land. In offering this land acknowledgment, we affirm Indigenous sovereignty, history, experiences, and resiliency of the Native people who are still here today. The Inclusion Center stands with our Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community as they face significant escalations of harassment, discrimination, and hate crimes since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Continued promotion of rhetoric that refers to this virus as the Chinese or Wuhan virus has only contributed to the rates of harassment and violence. However, this harassment and hate towards Asian and AAPI people have a long history in our nation. It must stop with us. We at the Inclusion Center condemn all forms of violence, xenophobia, and racism. Our team renews its dedication to acting on behalf of and representing the concerns of our marginalized student communities. We continue to work collaboratively with our campus partners such as CAPS and the Office of Global engagement to “foster an inclusive campus” and “fight to disrupt and end racism”. We welcome you to join us - to learn with us, grieve with us, rage with us, and stand up together. We remind all our students at this time that we are here for you. Please reach out if you don’t know where to turn for support or if you simply need a space to process, to heal, and to hope. Relax and be proud of who you are. Our students, staff, faculty, and alumni embrace, support, and advocate for every member of our Aggie family. The USU Inclusion Center creates an environment of acceptance, respect, and empowerment. You are valued here and your involvement with our clubs and organizations will make us even stronger. Engage with Fellow Aggies The Inclusion Center is made up of five different programs: Adult Learner, Gender & Sexuality, Indigenous Programs, Multicultural Student Services, and Women & Gender. Each program offers specific resources, support, advocacy, events, and clubs. Adult Learner Gender & Sexuality Indigenous Multicultural Women & Gender Adult Learner Adult Learners Though there isn’t a one-size-fits-all definition, adult learners are generally students over 25 years old, have had large gaps in their education, and have families. We create a welcoming environment where non-traditional students can gather to connect, take advantage of campus resources, and succeed in the academic journey. More About Adult Learner Programs Gender & Sexuality Gender & Sexuality We provide education and awareness, community engagement, and foster empowerment and support to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, and allied (LGBTQIA+) students, faculty, and staff. More About Gender & Sexuality Programs Indigenous Indigenous We provide resources and support for indigenous students at Utah State University. Indigenous programming creates a safe space to foster a personalized approach to your college experience. We aid indigenous students in retaining and completing a degree at USU. More About Indigenous Programs Multicultural Multicultural We support student services through inclusive, student-centered programming that enhances the academic, cultural, and social experiences of students from diverse backgrounds. More About Multicultural Programs Women & Gender Women & Gender We promote and advocate for gender equity on campus and in the community. We facilitate opportunities for learning and activism to support and empower all individuals in building an inclusive and compassionate society. More About Women & Gender Programs The Inclusion Center is Here to Help Scholarships There are more than 20 scholarships available through the USU Inclusion Center and more than 40 other scholarships outside of USU in the same fields. View Scholarships Inclusion Center Resources Students have access to support groups, computers, a community kitchen, and lounges where they can study, relax, and connect with each other in a safe and fun environment. Resources Events The Inclusion Center can co-sponsor your event. We can help plan, promote, and offer speakers, booths, and more to represent the Inclusion Center and spread awareness. Inclusion Center Calendar Upcoming Events Inclusion Center 1-31 Nov-Dec Sub For Santa November-December | TSC 315 A fundraiser to provide Christmas to USU Aggie families. It is a great opportunity to make a donation or sponsor a child or family. Inclusion Center, LXU 1/2 Nov Dia de los Muertos celebrations M/T 6:00pm | International Lounge (TSC) Women & Gender… 4 Nov Fat Acceptance Series Women & Gender, Indigenous & Campus Recreation Fat Is Not a Bad Word November 4 | 3:00 - 4:00pm | TSC 315 Inclusion Center Events Calendar Help support the USU Inclusion Center and its programs by donating through our secure web form. Every donation helps the center continue to make positive impacts within the USU community. Donate Today Inclusion Center Contact US Inclusion Center Facebook Inclusion Center Instagram USU Inclusion Center 0185 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322-0185 Taggart Student Center 315 (435) 797-1728 inclusion@usu.edu Stay in Touch Receive frequent communication about upcoming events, group meetings, resources, scholarships, and more. Browse our News & Newsletters Inclusion Center Email Lists Adult Learner Allies Info Asian Student Association Black Student Union Interfaith Student Association LatinX Student Union QSA Native American Student Council Pasifika Student Union Women and Gender Meet the Staff Assessment Join the email list Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page