Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Secondary Education-English Education Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Secondary Education-English Education Major Apply Visit Request More Info Secondary Education-English Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Education in Secondary Education: English Education Earn the BSEd in Secondary Education: English Education and develop the skills to teach students how to produce and interpret literary and non-literary writing. You will master effective classroom management and instructional techniques. Within the College of Liberal Arts, you’ll complete coursework in literary criticism, literature or linguistics, and then cap your English studies with a writing-intensive, senior-level project. In the College of Education and Human Development, you’ll learn to address literacy deficiencies without neglecting subject content time, apply literacy instructional methods for English language learners, create classroom settings that accommodate special education needs, and identify special education needs and develop productive interventions. Your education coursework will be enhanced with multiple fieldwork assignments. The program culminates in an academic semester long practicum, during which you will instruct a class at an area high school supported by a cooperating teacher and Temple faculty. Your degree is awarded by the College of Education and Human Development. Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Early Childhood Education and Special Education MEd Education PhD with a concentration in Literacy and Learners Education PhD with a concentration in Special Education Secondary Education and Special Education MEd with a concentration in English Education Secondary Education MEd with a concentration in English Education Related Graduate Certificates Applied Behavior Analysis Autism Endorsement Disability Studies English as a Second Language English Language Teaching Urban Education Review the full list of graduate degree and graduate certificate programs in the College of Education and Human Development. +1 Accelerated Programs For particularly focused students, the College of Education and Human Development offers accelerated programs. Qualified students earn bachelor’s and master’s degrees in one five-year course of study instead of the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Education and Human Development’s +1 accelerated programs. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. It also presents opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Explore the opportunities available through organizations such as Be The Change, an organization that provides education and healthcare services to communities in North Philadelphia and overseas; Black Diamonds Union, which works to celebrate and disseminate education about black culture at Temple University and in Philadelphia’s wider urban community; College of Education and Human Development Student Council, a group that provides students with leadership opportunities and a chance to effect change; Grandma’s Kids, a K through grade 5 afterschool program that focuses on homework, as well as academic, emotional and social support; Jumpstart, a national early education organization that trains students to work with preschool children in low-income neighborhoods; Kappa Delta Pi Honor Society, which promotes academic excellence and a network for those who are committed to teaching; The Petey Greene Program at Temple University, an organization that supports prisoner education by training volunteers to provide weekly tutoring sessions to inmates in four correctional facilities in Philadelphia; Temple University - Students Teaching Underrepresented Developing Youth (TU-STUDY), a group that assists children and adults in the greater Philadelphia area with advising, tutoring and other kinds of support in overcoming learning challenges; Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which increases esteem for educational professions among teacher candidates, constructively affects the process of teacher education and represents students regarding these issues; and Treehouse Books, a literacy center near Temple’s Main Campus where students can engage in literacy service work. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Tim Fukawa-Connelly, associate professor, is the coordinator of the Secondary Education program. Phone: 215-204-6206 Email: tim.fc@temple.edu Our Academic Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Study Away Opportunities Education majors gain experience teaching English overseas in Chile, China, South Korea and other countries. Recent graduates of the Secondary Education: English Education program have gone abroad with the Education Abroad Network Thailand and the University of East Anglia Exchange. Learn more about studying abroad, and explore a list of government-sponsored teaching abroad scholarships. Certification This program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-SEEN-BSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Secondary Education-English Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info