COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication, Master's Master'sCommunication All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Elliott School of Communication Wichita State's Master of Arts (MA) in communication will equip you with a multidisciplinary foundation in human communication essential for professional careers in a wide range of fields—from advertising and public relations to journalism and corporate communication. The program is also excellent preparation for pursuing your Ph.D. Learn how Communication is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Complete the WSU Graduate School requirements Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 hours of coursework Submit a statement of purpose International students: have a 600 (pbt) or 100 (ibt) on the TOEFL OR band score of 7.5 on the IELTS For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program A Shocker You Should Know: Pamela O'Neal As a student pursuing a master's degree in communication, you have the opportunity to expand your knowledge and climb career ladders. Pamela O'Neal has a total of three degrees and is working toward a fourth. While pursuing her master's degree in communication, she taught public speaking as a graduate teaching assistant. After graduation she held a variety of positions that led her back to Wichita State as communications, public relations and recruitment specialist for WSU's School of Nursing. O'Neal now works in the Office of Adult Learning as the assistant director. Curriculum The degree requires the completion of 36 hours of coursework in communication and related fields. In addition to completing 15 credit hours of graduate core courses, you'll select an additional 21 credit hours based on your career goals and interests. The program also requires that you complete a thesis, project or nonthesis/project. All graduate students in the MAC program are required to take a four-hour written comprehensive examination over their coursework. View the curriculum Careers A communication degree from Wichita State combines the classroom knowledge and applied learning that opens doors to careers in many fields—from public relations and journalism to marketing and education. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sociology (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©