Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Social Sciences Finance Access Course Offerings ECO 525 / FIN 525 Asset Pricing Professor/Instructor Asset pricing in competitive markets where traders have homogeneous information as well as empirical tests of asset-pricing models and associated "anomalies" are also surveyed. Measures of riskiness and risk aversion; atemporal asset-pricing models; dynamic portfolio choice; option pricing; and the term structure of interest rates, corporate investment and financing decisions, and taxation are studied. ECO 526 / FIN 526 Corporate Finance Professor/InstructorDavid Schoenherr, Wei Xiong Theories and empirical evidence regarding financial markets and institutions that focus on asymmetric information, transaction costs, or both; and rational expectation models of asset pricing under asymmetric information, dynamic models of market making, portfolio manager performance evaluation, principal-agent models of firm managerial structure, takeover bids, capital structure, and regulation of financial markets are studied. ECO 527 / FIN 527 Financial Modelling Professor/InstructorMarkus Konrad Brunnermeier, Wei Xiong Advanced asset pricing and corporate finance including a selection from: models of financial crises and bubbles; interaction between finance and macroeconomics, derivative pricing in incomplete markets; tests of asset pricing models and associated anomalies; models of investor behavior; financial econometrics, including tests of asset pricing models and methods for high frequency data. Pre-requisites: ECO 525 and 526 (526 may be taken concurrently). FIN 568 Behavioral Finance Professor/InstructorNatalie Marie Bachas, Wei Xiong Traditional economics and finance typically use the simple "rational actor" model, where people perfectly maximize, and efficient financial markets. We will present models that are psychologically more realistic than this standard model. About 30% of the course will be devoted to economics, 70% to finance. Applications to economics will include decision theory, happiness, fairness, and neuroeconomics. Applications to finance will include theory and evidence on investor psychology, predictability of the stock market and other markets, limits to arbitrage, bubbles and crashes, experimental finance, and behavioral corporate finance FIN 580 Quantitative Data Analysis in Finance Professor/InstructorCaio Ibsen Rodrigues de Almeida The course gives a broad introduction to the techniques of machine learning, and places those techniques within the context of computational finance. Topics include parametric and non-parametric regression, and supervised learning techniques. Methods covered include linear models, logistic regression, additive models, LASSO, kernel methods, clustering methods and applications, support vector machines and classification. We also discuss the implementation of dimension reduction techniques, including principal components analysis. Examples are taken from financial models. FIN 505 is considered the prerequisite of the course. FIN 581 Entrepreneurial Finance, Private Equity and Venture Capital Professor/InstructorNatalie Marie Bachas, Gustavo Schwed This course explores how technology-based start-up ventures are founded, managed and financed. Specific emphasis is put on the early stages of development. The goal is to offer perspectives on the "two sides of the coin": the entrepreneur's perspective and the financier's perspective (in particular the venture capitalist). FIN 591 Cases in Financial Risk Management Professor/InstructorCaio Ibsen Rodrigues de Almeida Course examines the concept of risk and its mitigation, and how the ideas can be applied in the practice of risk management for financial and non-financial companies. The basic toolkit draws on economics, probability theory and statistics, and they are integrated with more advanced concepts drawn from portfolio choice, derivative securities and dynamic hedging. Overall aim of the course is to demonstrate how the main concepts have practical applications. FIN 592 Asian Capital Markets Professor/InstructorJean-Christophe de Swaan Course explores the increasing weight of Asia in global equity financial markets and its implications, and frames the discussion in the macro-economic context of the globalization of financial markets and the evolution of the global monetary system. Course puts particular emphasis on concepts of economic development, market efficiency, and corporate governance. Discussions combine analysis of historical trends and recent data and events with insights from practical experience in Asian equity markets. Course also explicitly considers the policy decisions faced by the US and Chinese governments relative to existing global imbalances. FIN 593 Financial Crises Professor/Instructor The use economic theory and empirical evidence to study the causes of financial crises and the effectiveness of policy responses to them. Particular attention given to some of the major economic and financial crises of the past century and to the crisis that began in August 2007. More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice