Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Center for Inclusive Design and Innovation College of Design Main navigation About Support Our Center People GT Squared Research Accessible Education Accessible Workplace Assistive Technology Tech & Aging ITEP Student Research Research Opportunities Services Braille Captioning & Described Media Digital Accessibility & Usability Experience E-Text Tools For Life Student Accommodation Manager Education Courses Training Portfolio Publications Presentations Project Archive News & Events Contact Membership Member Log In Membership Form Open Search Search We Are Contributing to an Inclusive World We Are Contributing to an Inclusive World CIDI is recognized as a leader for services and research in accessibility. We are dedicated to an inclusive society through innovations in assistive and universally designed technologies, with a goal of addressing the full range of needs for accessibility. We are committed to the promotion of technological innovation and development of user-centered research, products, and services for individuals with disabilities. Services We Offer Our Mission Maureen Linden Named New Associate Director of Research Maureen Linden has been appointed as the new Associate Director of Research for the Center for Inclusive Design and Innovation (CIDI). “I am very proud to be the Associate Director of Research.” says Linden. “We have a remarkable team of professionals here, who represent a breadth of knowledge around disabilities and technology.” CIDI is unique in that it offers services in accessibility as well as research, with the CIDI team being comprised of people who are experts in providing assistive technology and educating the public on its uses. This special dynamic offers the opportunity for research to inform the development of services to better assist people, and services to inform research and assist in its progress to improve conditions and technologies. Linden explains, ““The research that we do at CIDI is very applied. It must be firmly grounded in current rehabilitation practices that provide people with disabilities access to their communities, education, and employment.” As the Associate Director of Research, Linden will focus on identifying synergies between research and services to help unify the department, encouraging collaborations within and outside the Institute, aligning research to CIDI and Institute strategic planning, developing the current research program, and guiding professional development for the research faculty. CIDI, CDCF Partner to Develop Accessible Resources For All The Center for Inclusive Design and Innovation (CIDI), supported by a grant from the CDC Foundation with technical assistance from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), has created COVID-19 resources in alternative formats based upon CDC's guidance. "Like so many groups, the COVID-19 pandemic is creating dangers and hardships on people living with disabilities," said Judy Monroe, MD, president and CEO of the CDC Foundation. "To help address some of the challenges being faced by people in this community, we are pleased to support the work of the team at CIDI and their partners working to create accessible emergency materials. Importantly, we believe this project can inform serving this community during future public health threats as well." View All Available Resources Nationally Recognized Research CIDI research projects build on Georgia Tech's innovation in engineering, science, and technology. Many projects are focused on inclusive design and applications of information and communications technology (ICT) with tangible results. Our research serves members of all communities, ranging from students with disabilities to the aging population. With a goal of improving the human condition for individuals, our studies last months or even years. Take a closer look at our projects and research opportunities, and see where you might be able to contribute. Projects Opportunities CIDI Is Here to Serve You As the largest services and research center within Georgia Tech's College of Design, we address unmet needs in higher education, government, non-profits, and corporations. Our services can be accessed by becoming a member, and CIDI offers a range of membership levels to meet the different needs of each organization. Educational Institutions Students of all ages benefit from services, training, student account management, and more. Government & Non-Profit Agencies and organizations benefit from accessibility training and compliance and event services. Corporations Corporate offices benefit from our accessible services, evaluations, and more. Research We provide research opportunities, partnerships, and projects in accessibility. Become a Member Learn More About Our Services Visit Us As advocates for accessibility, our team invites you to schedule a visit to learn more about what goes into making the world more inclusive and accessible -- physically and digitally. You will receive a tour of our entire building with opportunities to connect with our staff and facilitate change by learning how to make your campus, company, or events more accessible. Schedule A Tour Latest News & Events Inclusive Tech Entrepreneurship Program (ITEP) ITEP is an integrated career development program for college students. Learn more here. CIDI, College of Design Talk Wheelchairs for ADA A then-and-now look at wheelchair use and the differences the ADA has helped make possible. Tai Chi Leader Meets with TechSage Researchers Dr. Paul Lam discusses technology innovations for improving access to tai chi interventions. Industrial Design & Assistive Tech Researchers and students use rapid prototyping to create custom tools for people with mobility impairments. See All News See All Events The College of Design (COD) community of faculty, staff, and students aspires to create and nurture an environment that is supportive of all backgrounds where different views and ideas are respected and encouraged. In all our pursuits, we commit to justice, diversity, equity, and inclusion with regard to race, national origin, language, age, sexual orientation, gender, religion, and ability. Moreover, we will encourage intellectual inquiry and respectful exchange that cements our dedication to these principles. Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in Design Footer 4 CIDI Resources HQ