Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News Novel Drugs That Act Like Biological Plugs May Treat Aggressive Cancers November 27, 2020 Columbia researchers characterized a new class of ‘biomimetic’ drugs that plug a calcium channel implicated in the development of cancer and several other diseases. Topic Research The Changing Landscape of Pancreatic Cancer November 13, 2020 New combination chemotherapies have improved survival for patients with pancreatic cancer, and oncologist Gulam Manji sees early signs that new treatments in trials may be even better. Gene Signature Predicts Whether Localized Prostate Cancer is Likely to Spread November 9, 2020 Columbia researchers have identified a gene signature in localized prostate cancer that predicts the cancer’s odds of spreading and its response to a common treatment for advanced disease. Topic Prostate Cancer Immunotherapy May Work Better Against Stomach Cancer When Combined with Chemo, Given Earlier November 5, 2020 Immunotherapy, often ineffective against stomach cancer, was more effective when combined with chemotherapy and given earlier, finds a new study in mice. Topic Immunotherapy Adam Bass to Lead Precision Cancer Medicine at Columbia University October 29, 2020 Adam Bass, MD, will join the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center as founding director of the Center for Precision Cancer Medicine and director of gastrointestinal oncology. Topic Campus News ‘Less Is More’ Signifies Shift in Breast Cancer Radiotherapy October 22, 2020 Columbia's Eileen Connolly explains how radiation treatment for breast cancer has vastly improved in recent years due to advancements in technology and an increased understanding of the disease. Topic Breast Cancer Breast Cancer: Where We Are and Where We're Going October 15, 2020 Breast cancer survival has improved by about 40% since the 1980s. Columbia oncologist Katherine Crew discusses how new genetic tests, treatments, and screening methods should further improve survival. Topic Breast Cancer Eradicating Cancer in a FLASH September 29, 2020 Columbia is one of the few places in the world where scientists can research an emerging radiotherapy technique called FLASH, which could drastically shorten radiation treatment for cancer patients. Topic Radiation Columbia’s Fundraiser for Cancer Research Gets Personal for 2020 September 25, 2020 Velocity, Columbia’s annual fundraiser for cancer research, has changed this year, with participants cycling, running, and even sailing to support cancer research and care. Topic Campus News Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center Earns National Cancer Institute Renewal August 26, 2020 The Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center has been redesignated as a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the NCI, the federal government’s principal agency for cancer research, care, and training. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top