Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Sea Camp and Outreach Search Residential Camp Day Camp Educator Internship Field Trip Opportunities Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Sea Camp Sea Campus Kids Field Trips Internship for Educators Maritime Careers Camp Scholarships Sea Camp Connection Contact Us! Sea Camp and Outreach Residential Camp Day Camp Educator Internship Field Trip Opportunities Sea Camp and Outreach Sea Camp & OutreachRegistration for 2022 Camp Programs is open! Spotlight Link 1 Sea Camp Spotlight Link 2 Sea Campus Kids Spotlight Link 3 Field Trips Spotlight Link 4 Internship for Educators Spotlight Link 5 Maritime Careers Camp Spotlight Link 6 Scholarships Spotlight Link 7 Sea Camp Connection Spotlight Link 8 Contact Us! Sea Camp Residential Camp Sea Camp is a week-long residential adventure exploring the wonders of the marine and estuarine environments for campers ages 10-18. As a Sea Camper, you will have access to research vessels, oceanographic equipment, laboratory facilities, and a professional staff enabling you to learn about the ocean through hands-on experiences. SEA CAMP SCHEDULE Back to topBack to top Housing Housing Sea Campers will reside in dormitories at the Texas A&M University at Galveston (TAMUG) Mitchell campus on Pelican Island. Campers are typically roomed two to a room and four to a suite depending on the number of campers in the program. Roommate requests are made during registration, can be added to your online account, or made by calling the Sea Camp Business office at (409)740-4525. If your camper does not have a roommate request that is perfectly fine! Many of our campers come to camp their first time and meet likeminded individuals with whom they might like to room with the following summer! Campers are roomed by program, gender, and age. Supervision Supervision Dorm Staff: A resident manager, dorm mom, recreation director, camp assistant and counselors (counselors are K-12 educators) are present 24 hours a day. Dorm Office: The dorm office will be available from Week 1-Week 8 of camp at (409)740-4759 Sea Camp Instructors are experienced undergraduates, graduate students and recent graduates from Texas A&M University Galveston Campus. Cancellation Policy Cancellation Policy Deposit: A $150 deposit is due upon registration. This deposit is fully refundable as long as you cancel 3 weeks prior to your camp starting date. Any cancellation that is made after this date will not be refunded the deposit. You must e-mail or call the business office in order to cancel your camp program. Covid 19 Related Cancelations: Symptomatic and/or Parental Concern -Customers who cancel by email notice less than 3 weeks prior to camp start date are eligible to receive full credit for a future Sea Camp or a refund less the camp deposit. Exposure Related – If camps are cancelled due to a COVID-19 camp direct exposure, potential exposure and/or for contact tracing reasons, impacted customers will receive a prorated refund or camp credit. Government / Health Dept Related – If camps are cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic federal, state and local health measures, refunds will be issued less the camp deposit (processing and administrative fees). Alternately customers can opt to receive full credit for a future Sea Camp. Waiting List Waiting List It is free of charge to be added to the waiting list. If a cancellation is made, we will immediately e-mail the next person on the list. Parents will receive a courtesy call if no response has been received by the office before moving on to the next participant. Please ensure you are using an e-mail address or phone number that you are easily contacted at. Flight Information Flight Information Sea Camp offers transportation to/from Houston Hobby to those flying. The fee is $35 each way. Once you have your flight information, registration can be made in our online registration portal, or by calling the Sea Camp Office at 409-740-4525. Reservations must be made at least one week prior to your campers arrival. A flight confirmation is required to request transportation and will only be available to those flying to and from Houston Hobby. Sea Camp does not provide transportation to/from IAH Bush Intercontinental. All transportation to & from IAH will need to make alternate reservations. One service we have experience with and suggest is Galveston Limousine (409) 744-5466. Please keep in mind, this transportation is not provided by Sea Camp. Please contact the Galveston Limousine service prior to booking your flight to make sure they have a shuttle available. Arrivals Campers flying in for Sea Camp will fly into Houston Hobby. Flight arrival times need to be made between 10 am - 1:30 pm on Sunday. A Sea Camp representative will be on-site to meet arrivals at their gate and escort them to baggage claim, then to the shuttle. The instructors will be wearing a maroon shirt. Campers PLEASE STAY AT YOUR GATE, DO NOT PROCEED TO BAGGAGE CLAIM. Arrivals at Bush Intercontinental Airport will meet the Galveston Limousine Shuttle for the trip to the Dorm Office. Please make sure you make reservations with Galveston Limousine Service (409) 744-5466. Departures Flight departure times need to be arranged between 9:00 am-11:30 am on Saturday. A Sea Camp representative will be escorting campers to Houston-Hobby Airport and assisting them with check-in. Departures at Bush Intercontinental Airport will be placed on the Galveston Limousine Shuttle for the trip to the Airport. They will be responsible for their own check-in at the Airport. Please make sure you make return reservations for Galveston Limousine Service at (409) 744-5466. Camper Check-In and Pick-Up Camper Check-In and Pick-Up Check-In: Campers may arrive anytime between 2:00 & 4:00 p.m. on Sunday! Pick-Up: Campers may be picked up after Friday night closing ceremonies or Saturday morning no later than 11:00 a.m.! Closing Ceremonies: Parents are more than welcome to attend this ceremony! Closing Ceremonies will start at either 6:00p.m. or 7:00p.m. depending on the program your camper is attending. We will give you the exact time at camper check-in! Sea Camp Packing List! Sea Camp Packing List! Packing List: At least 5 Cloth face coverings (disposable mask,buff, cloth mask, ect.) that cover mouth and nose. Summer Clothes (Shorts, T-shirts, hat's, ext.) Appropriate Swimsuits: two-piece suits are allowed as long as they are modestly cut. No thong or cheeky bottoms. Re-usable Water bottle Sandals or flip-flops Lace up sneakers for outdoor activities Old/inexpensive pair of lace-up sneakers that can get dirty Sweatshirt for air conditioned buildings Pillow/Pillow case Sleeping bag or twin bedding. (extra long twin sheets are recommended unless they are stretchy) Beach towels, bath towel, wash cloths, etc. Hand Soap & Shampoo Detergent. Laundry is located on the first floor free of cost to campers if needed. Alarm Clock Insect Repellent Sunscreen 2 Plain white t-shirts to decorate at camp Light weight fishing rod and reel, if interested in optional fishing. Optional: hammock Money: Quarters are handy for snacks and drinks. Campers are responsible for any souvenirs they would like to purchase. Campers will have access to the Texas A&M Bookstore. Electronics: Cell phones & electronics must be left in the camper’s room during the day Electronics are allowed in dorm rooms, but are the responsibility of the owner. A camp phone is available to campers in the dorm office for needed calls home, if a cell phone is unavailable. Though much of the campus is wireless, students will be very busy and will not have access to internet the majority of camp. Camp Rules Camp Rules Sea Camp Rules and Discipline: There is ZERO tolerance for alcohol, drug, weapons, or tobacco and vapor products. Campers are expected to follow all campus rules/regulations and respect university property and facilities. Parents will be billed for any damages. Campers will be sent home for any behavior that is unacceptable to Sea Camp staff. Campers will not engage in inappropriate verbal, physical, or sexual conduct directed toward an other person, whether camper, volunteer or staff. Specific guidelines will be given during opening ceremonies. Parents will NOT receive a refund if camper is sent home for inappropriate behavior. Campers sent home for inappropriate or disruptive behavior will not be allowed to return for a period of 3 months to 1 year depending on the offense. A recommendation letter written by a principal must be provided to return to camp. Camp Photos and Camper Mail Camp Photos and Camper Mail Camp Photos At Sea Camp our amazing counselors are our photographers! This way we can get great photos of your kids while they focus on experiencing camp! A week before camp you will be provided a link that will allow you to access photos through a website as they are uploaded so you can stay connected during the week! Albums are divided between camp dates and programs. Please keep in mind that our team is first and foremost focused on providing your camper with quality programs and activities. We might be having so much fun that we forget to photograph some activities. We will try our best to get photos that we do have uploaded quickly so that you may share in the experience. E-mail you camper during camp! Parents may send camper e-mails throughout the week to let them know you are thinking about them! Camper Mail will be printed at 3:00 p.m. each day and delivered to their room at lights out. When e-mailing please include the camper’s name in the subject line along with the camp they are attending. (Please do not send photos in your e-mails, e-mails are printed in black and white) The email address is as follows: campermail@tamug.edu Sea Camp Covid-19 Procedure Sea Camp Covid-19 Procedure Please Review our Covid-19 Procedure before committing to camp. These procedures are subject to change as we get closer to camp. Sea Camp and Sea Campus kids will be planning camps based on the following steps to proceed with In-person summer programs. Pre-Screening Daily Health Screenings Cohorting or Grouping Altered Activities Frequent Disinfection/Cleaning Ventilation of indoor spaces Handwashing Personal protective equipment COVID-19 Procedure: Face coverings (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) are highly encouraged for staff, students, campers, and visitors on Texas A&M University campuses. Although we do not require face coverings, field trips to private organizations may have their own restrictions. We recommend all campers bring facial coverings while at Sea Camp. Prior to arrival, please monitor symptoms for Covid-19, 14 day Pre-camp Health Screening Forms will be provides to guide camper families when monitoring symptoms. If a participant shows two or more symptoms as outlined in the CDC's COVID-19 symptoms for youth, they must be sent home or tested for COVID-19. COVID-19 rapid antigen tests are available and administered to staff and campers who volunteer to participate. Beyond the standard daily cleaning schedule, SSC Custodial Staff have implemented a daily disinfecting schedule and are using EPA-approved virucides. High-traffic areas such as elevators and community bathrooms are cleaned at least 2 times per day. Common touch points such as elevator buttons, light switches, handrails, and faucets are being disinfected frequently. Hand sanitizer will be located at our check-in/check-out stations and other high traffic areas. Signage throughout our residence halls, and common areas will remind our residents to maintain appropriate physical distancing and to follow all other recommended guidelines for maintaining the health and safety of our campus community. Common spaces, game rooms and other learning centers have been re-configured to allow for physical distancing and also have enhanced cleaning protocols. Sea Campus Kids Day Camp Sea Campus Kids is a day camp for kids ages 4-11. Join us for a “Hands-on” and “Feet-in” marine adventure! Sea Campus Kids is very popular with our young marine biologists in training! SEA CAMPUS KIDS SCHEDULE Summer Workshops Ages 6-11 Summer Workshops Ages 6-11 Half-Day Workshops: Monday-Thursday Ages 6-10 Morning Workshops: 8:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. Afternoon Workshops: 12:30 p.m.-4:00 p.m. Participants may register for the morning, afternoon, or both programs offered. Campers enrolled in morning and afternoon workshops will stay during lunch. Full-Day Workshops: Monday-Wednesday 9:00a.m.-3:00p.m. Beginner Ages 6-8 Advanced Ages 9-11 A deposit of $30 is required for each workshop. The deposit may be refunded or applied to another workshop up to three weeks prior to the start of the workshop by contacting the Sea Camp office to confirm the change. Full payment is due three weeks prior to the start of the workshop. Sea Squirts Sea Squirts Sea Squirts Workshops are designed with our smaller scientists in mind. Parents and children (4-5 years old) will discover and explore the marine environment together. Explorers will make discoveries in the Sea Squirt classroom, explore a salt marsh, and create a product reflecting their adventures in marine science. Waiting Lists Waiting Lists It is free of charge to be added to the waiting list. If a cancellation is made, we will immediately e-mail the next person on the list. Parents will receive a courtesy call if no response has been received by the office before moving on to the next participant. Please ensure you are using an e-mail address or phone number that you are easily contacted at. Cancellation Policy Cancellation Policy Deposit: A $30 deposit is due upon registration. This deposit is fully refundable as long as you cancel 3 weeks prior to your camp starting date. Any cancellation that is made after this date will not be refunded the deposit. You must e-mail or call the business office in order to cancel your camp program. Covid 19 Related Cancelations: Symptomatic and/or Parental Concern -Customers who cancel by email notice less than 3 weeks prior to camp start date are eligible to receive full credit for a future Sea Camp or a refund less the camp deposit. Exposure Related – If camps are cancelled due to a COVID-19 camp direct exposure, potential exposure and/or for contact tracing reasons, impacted customers will receive a prorated refund or camp credit. Government / Health Dept Related – If camps are cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic federal, state and local health measures, refunds will be issued less the camp deposit (processing and administrative fees). Alternately customers can opt to receive full credit for a future Sea Camp. Day Camp Packing List! Day Camp Packing List! Sea Campus Kids Day Camp Packing List and Information: Kids should be prepared to get wet daily. Face coverings (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) are highly encouraged for staff, students, campers, and visitors on Texas A&M University campuses. Although we do not require face coverings, field trips to private organizations may have their own restrictions. We recommend all campers bring facial coverings while at Sea Camp. They should WEAR PLAY CLOTHES AND OLD LACE-UP TENNIS SHOES which could get wet and/or dirty. DO NOT WEAR “WATER SHOES” BECAUSE THEY WILL FALL OFF IN THE MARSH. We recommend that they bring a backpack every day with a change of clothes, shoes and a beach towel. Sandals can be worn in the classroom; however, for safety reasons they may not be worn on field trips. Bug spray and Sunscreen is necessary and should be applied BEFORE arriving although we do keep a supply on hand. We always have water available for the campers, however, we encourage packing a filled water bottle each day. Bathing suits permitted as undergarments only. At camp we are not swimming, we are scientists exploring the ocean! Please make sure your camper has a shirt and shorts that can get wet to properly cover the bathing suit. Campers attending all day sessions or back to back morning and afternoon sessions will need to bring their own lunch. Sea Campus Kids Guidelines and Safety Sea Campus Kids Guidelines and Safety We want to make sure that every camper has a positive, fun, and memorable experience with us here at Sea Campus Kids (SCK). Here’s are some of our guidelines to follow during camp. All campers must be signed in and out daily by an adult (18 years or older), no camper is allowed to sign him/herself in or out. All campers are encouraged to participate in all activities at every camp they attend. Many of our camps have overlapping activities. Campers who are registered for multiple camps may repeat activities. Snacks are generally only provided on field trip days for half day camps, and full day camps. If your camper(s) tend to get hungry more frequently, please feel free to send an extra snack for them to have during classroom time. All campers are escorted to and from activities that take place outside our regular classroom, including restroom breaks. SCK does not tolerate bullying or harassing in any form (name calling, teasing, unwanted physical contact, etc.). Parents will be notified in the event of a problem, and if the problem persists camper(s) will be not be permitted back. SCK does not allow inappropriate behavior (weapon play, play fighting, inappropriate writing or drawing on projects). Parents will be notified if in the event of inappropriate behavior, and if behavior persists camper(s) will not be permitted back. Sea Campus Kids Covid-19 Procedure Sea Campus Kids Covid-19 Procedure Please Review our Covid-19 Procedure before committing to camp. These procedures are subject to change as we get closer to camp. Sea Camp and Sea Campus kids will be planning camps based on the following steps to proceed with In-person summer programs. Pre-Screening Daily Health Screenings Cohorting or Grouping Altered Activities Frequent Disinfection/Cleaning Ventilation of indoor spaces Handwashing Personal protective equipment COVID-19 Procedure: Face coverings (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) are highly encouraged for staff, students, campers, and visitors on Texas A&M University campuses. Although we do not require face coverings, field trips to private organizations may have their own restrictions. We recommend all campers bring facial coverings while at Sea Camp. Prior to arrival, please monitor symptoms for Covid-19, 14 day Pre-camp Health Screening Forms will be provides to guide camper families when monitoring symptoms. If a participant shows two or more symptoms as outlined in the CDC's COVID-19 symptoms for youth, they must be sent home or tested for COVID-19. COVID-19 rapid antigen tests are available and administered to staff and campers who volunteer to participate. Beyond the standard daily cleaning schedule, SSC Custodial Staff have implemented a daily disinfecting schedule and are using EPA-approved virucides. High-traffic areas such as elevators and community bathrooms are cleaned at least 2 times per day. Common touch points such as elevator buttons, light switches, handrails, and faucets are being disinfected frequently. Hand sanitizer will be located at our check-in/check-out stations and other high traffic areas. Signage throughout our residence halls, and common areas will remind our residents to maintain appropriate physical distancing and to follow all other recommended guidelines for maintaining the health and safety of our campus community. Common spaces, game rooms and other learning centers have been re-configured to allow for physical distancing and also have enhanced cleaning protocols. Field Trip Opportunities We are now taking field trip requests for schools interested in bringing groups from October 1st 2021-May 2022! VIEW FIELD TRIP PROGRAMS Texas A&M University Galveston Campus (TAMUG) offers a variety of marine-oriented field trips for groups of all ages! Our field trips are popular among public and private schools, scouts, church groups, etc. Our research vessel trip, salt marsh excursion, and shark dissection activities are sure to please! We can also arrange for a campus tour, lunch on campus, and so on. Please review our Field Trip page and let us know what we can do to help you create a memorable experience. Field Trip Contact: Sea Camp Business Office seacamp@tamug.edu 409-740-4525 Back to topBack to top Internship for Educators Texas A&M University Galveston Campus sponsors free summer internships for school teachers, counselors, administrators, and other individuals involved in education. Internships are operated in conjunction with Sea Camp and Talented & Gifted (TAG). Educator Internship Information Back to topBack to top Maritime Careers Camp Maritime Careers Camp is a program for Galveston County Students to generate enthusiasm, and introduce basic skills for maritime careers at the rising eighth through tenth grade levels. Applications are due May 20, 2022. Applications should be mailed or hand-delivered to the Sea Camp office: Sea Camp Texas A&M University – Galveston Campus P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, TX 77553 Applicants will be notified of acceptance by May 27, 2022. If you have any questions about the program, please call the Galveston Regional Chamber of Commerce at (409) 763-5326 or the Sea Camp office at (409) 740-4525. Must be enrolled in a school in Galveston County. Maritime Careers Camp Application Back to topBack to top Scholarships Opportunities for Summer 2022 Poster Scholarship Contest: CLOSED (posters will not be accepted past the postmark date of March 25, 2022) The Sea Camp Poster Scholarship Competition contest is worth up to $1015 for our week long Sea Camp for summer 2022! Campers ages 10-18 are eligible. Sea Campus Kids day camp is not included for this scholarship opportunity. Sea Camp 2022 Scholarship Competition Information & Rules: Sea Camp Connection Sea Camp Connection is a virtual experience designed to connect campers all across the world through their passion for marine life. Through virtual experiences, games, challenges, and crafts, Sea Camp Connection allows participants to learn at their own pace from Sea Camp Staff members while also connecting with fellow campers. In this unique experience, campers will be able to participate from their own home through activities the whole family can enjoy! Stay tuned for our next session! Contact Us! Email: seacamp@tamug.edu Sea Camp Business Office (8am-5pm Monday-Friday) (409) 740-4525 Sea Camp Dorm Office (Summer Months only) (409) 740-4759 Directions: Sea Campus Kids and Sea Camp Buisness office are located in the Sea Aggie Center BUILDING 3026 Sea Camp Dorms are located in Oceans Residential Hall BUILDING 3305 B Mailing Address: Attn: Sea Camp P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, TX 77553-1675 Shipping Address: Attn: Sea Camp 1001 Texas Clipper Rd. Galveston, TX 77554-2888 Back to topBack to top © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top