Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Environmental Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Environmental Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Environmental Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Studies Learn about our physical world, and pursue solutions to some of its biggest challenges, with the Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Studies in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This 123-credit, interdisciplinary undergraduate program, offered by the Department of Geography and Urban Studies, provides students with the tools needed to address crucial environmental issues, including climate change, environmental justice, food access, health, natural resource consumption and sustainability. In the Environmental Studies program, you’ll strengthen your writing, communication and research skills, and learn technical skills in geographic information systems and mapping software. Your courses and research will expand your knowledge of subjects like environmental policies and decision making; global climate change; environmental justice; health and the environment; natural hazards and risk assessment; and more. You can design your career path by developing a personalized curriculum that focuses on one or more of the following themes. Geographic methods Globalization Social justice Sustainability The Environmental Studies BA prepares students for careers in several fields including consulting, corporate environmental affairs, domestic and international nonprofit organizations, government environmental agencies, and more. Students also advance to graduate studies in environmental studies, law, planning and policy. Undergraduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems In this 12-credit certificate, students receive an introduction to information technology and spatial analysis. You’ll work directly with mapping, statistical and visualization software, and learn to manipulate data sets and spatially display those results. Learn more about the Geographic Information Systems Undergraduate Certificate. Classes & Curriculum The Environmental Studies BA is a 123-credit program that can be completed over four years of full-time study. Environmental-focused electives give students the opportunity to develop an area of emphasis around their particular interests. The following are examples of required and elective courses students can take in the Environmental Studies BA program. Environment and Society Environmental Impact Assessment Fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems Geography of Natural Resources Physical Geography Research Design in Environmental Studies Spatial Statistics Learn more about Environmental Studies Major required courses. Related Graduate Degrees Geographic Information Systems PSM Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Geoscience PhD* Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems Sustainable Community Planning** *College of Science and Technology **Tyler School of Art and Architecture 4+1 Dual Degree Programs The Geographic Information Systems PSM accelerated degree is open to all students. It combines advanced training in geographic information systems (GIS) core skills with professional development and business ethics to prepare students to enter the GIS workforce. Students can apply for the accelerated degree between second semester sophomore year and first semester senior year. The Geography and Urban Studies MA accelerated degree is open to Geography and Urban Studies and Environmental Studies majors. It prepares students for further graduate study, as well as for professional positions related to urban and economic development, environmental sustainability and social justice. Students can apply as early as the second semester of their sophomore year for entry in their junior year, or they can apply as late as the second semester of their junior year for entry during their senior year. Learn more about accelerated degree programs in the College of Liberal Arts. Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Liz Janczewski is the advisor for the Environmental Studies Major. Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Geography and Urban Studies Major, contact the following staff members. Melissa Gilbert is the chair of the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Jeremy Mennis is the undergraduate chair of the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-4748 Email: jmennis@temple.edu Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration in the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu Liz Janczewski is the coordinator in the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Environmental Studies program. Gamma Theta Upsilon is an international honor society in geography. Students are nominated for an annually granted membership on the basis of GPA. The Geography & Urban Studies/Environmental Studies Student Association focuses on topics such as geographic information systems, urban agriculture, sustainability and social justice through guest speakers, group outings and more. Students in the Environmental Studies Major program are also encouraged to get involved with Temple’s Office of Sustainability, which focuses on advancing sustainable academic initiatives and research, creating a sustainable campus environment and culture, and facilitating outreach and engagement on key environmental issues. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ENST-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Environmental Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info