Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Career Path Make a Gift Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Careers in Earth Sciences Learn what you can do with a degree in Earth Sciences >>> Geology Field Camp ESCI 4622, students measuring and describing rocks at Deadwood, South Dakota. first things first - learn the lab Dan Larsen – teaching lab methods in Soils and Soil Processes ESCI 4122/6122 Soil Analysis Student taking beakers out of oven during soil analysis exercise M.S. field research Graduate student Graham Ellsworth at heart Mountain, Wyoming Not your traditional classroom ESCI 4622, Geology Field Camp, students measuring stream discharge and cooling off at Lead, South Dakota. PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now! News and Colloquium Field Activities Contact Us Nationally Ranked # 111 U.S. News and World Report Earth Sciences - Graduate View All Rankings Home Earth Sciences Richly diverse, innovative and research focused. Welcome to the Department of Earth Sciences. We were founded in 2002 as part of the College of Arts and Sciences on the main campus of the University of Memphis. Our 14 full-time faculty represent the diverse disciplines of Archaeology, Geography, and Geology. Here, excellence is personal through a collaborative and interdisciplinary approach to Earth Science studies and research. Faculty and students are free to pursue diverse and innovative education and research studies that might be difficult in more traditional academic departments. Earth Sciences maintains close ties to several centers and institutes on-campus: the Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI), the Center for Applied Earth Science and Engineering Research (CAESER), and Chucalissa Museum. Our Archaeology faculty have common interests with other Archaeology-related programs at the University of Memphis. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.