Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Prospective Students International Applicants International Applicants to Master's and Doctoral Programs Admissions Requirements International applicants may need to include additional documentation and test scores with their application. To ensure that you are meeting the requirements for your intended program, please visit your program's college or school's website to learn more about what you will need to provide with your application: Dedman College of Humanities and Social Sciences International Graduate Admissions Requirements Lyle School of Engineering International Graduate Admissions Requirements and Student Information Meadows School of the Arts International Graduate Admissions Requirements Simmons School of Education and Human Development Graduate Programs If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact us at smugrad@smu.edu. I-20 and Visa Information SMU's International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) Staff provides immigration services to students, scholars and professors on F or J visas. Our office staff coordinates pre-arrival information, current compliance issues, data management and programming for international students and scholars. We are committed to enhancing the experiences of our international community by continuing to provide superior customer service, reporting to the U.S. Federal Government, and providing cultural and educational programming opportunities as part of our global society. If you have questions or concerns about the I-20 or visa processes, please contact ISSS directly at isss@smu.edu or 214-768-4475. Visit the ISSS Website Resources for International Applicants If you are working on preparing your materials for graduate school, don't forget to visit our blog for advice on how to best prepare your application. New articles are posted weekly through our Facebook page. Visit our blog, Advancing the Field! Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share