COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: English, Master's Master'sEnglish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature The Master of Arts (MA) program in English literature from Wichita State equips students with the knowledge and skills for success in a diverse range of careers and is excellent preparation for further graduate study. You'll gain comprehensive knowledge of English and American Literature, skills in literary criticism and research, and have access to graduate teaching assistantships. Learn how English is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Be admitted into the WSU Grad School Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in previous English courses Submit a 500-word statement of purpose Non-native English speakers must score at least 600 paper-based, or 100 internet-based on the TOEFL, or have an overall band score of 7.5 on the IELTS, or a score of 73 on the PTE-Academic For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The MA degree requires 30 credit hours of coursework, including the successful completion of either the master's thesis (up to 6 credit hours) or master's portfolio (3 credit hours). The master's thesis is intended for students interested in an intensive, independent research experience, while the master's portfolio is intended for students interested in developing documents more reflective of the diverse work they have completed while enrolled in the degree program. View the curriculum Careers A degree in English from Wichita State will equip you with skills that lead to diverse career options in the public and private sectors—from advertising agencies and the film industry to non-profits and academia. Program graduates hold positions as high school teachers, community college instructors, curriculum coordinators, academic advisors, success coaches, test development supervisors, media designers, editors, publishers, grant writers, digital archivists, brand strategists, social media managers, web developers, technical writers and human resource specialists. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Creative Writing (Master's) English Literature and Composition Pedagogy (Graduate Certificate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©