Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected College of the Arts Performance and Exhibition Spaces Venue seating maps (where applicable) Begovich Gallery Named "Best Art Gallery" in the 2015 OC Weekly "Best of Orange County" issue, the 2,500 square foot Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery presents exhibitions that contribute to the experience of learning about and better understanding visual culture. The regional focus of the exhibitions is Southern California, but also includes national and international projects that merit scholarly attention. Graduate students in the exhibition design program also hone their skills as future exhibition designers and museum professionals in the gallery, transforming theory into practice. Duff Gallery The Marilyn & Cline Duff Gallery, is a small exhibition space adjacent to Begovich Gallery used for graduate student exhibitions. It is also frequently used by exhibition design students as an alternate space for their graduate exhibition projects and installations. Exit Gallery The Exit Gallery is the primary gallery for undergraduate exhibitions. It is maintained by the students who exhibit in the space with the support of the department's gallery preparator Freedman Gallery The Leo Freedman MFA Gallery is the primary gallery for graduate student exhibitions and projects. It is maintained by the students who exhibit in the space with the support of the department's gallery preparator Hallberg Theatre The 150-seat Hallberg Theatre is built in the black box tradition, and includes flexible seating from in the round to a more traditional formation. This space features experimental and rarely performed Theatre productions and also showcases new plays. Little Theatre The 480-seat Little Theatre presents most of the Department of Theatre and Dance's musical productions as well as the fall and spring Dance Theatre productions. McGarvey Dance Studio The William J. McGarvey Family Dance Studio is designed for instruction and performance. This studio is used to showcase new dance choreography and to feature individual dance recitals. Other studios include the Kathryn T. McCarty Dance Studio; Dhont Family Foundation Dance Studio and the Jerry Samuelson Musical Theatre Studio Meng Concert Hall Lauded for its outstanding acoustics, the 800-seat Vaughncille Joseph Meng Concert Hall engages the listener with its subtleties and unobstructed sound. Performances by the University's music ensembles and guest artists produce a synergy not felt in traditional university concert halls. Recital Hall The 200-seat recital hall presents more intimate music performances including chamber music and recitals. The Recital Hall is also used for the School of Music opera productions. Young Theatre The 250-seat James D. Young Theatre is the major stage for dramatic productions presented by the Department of Theatre & Dance. This thrust-stage theatre is designed to bring the actors to the center of the space with seating on three sides, both on the floor level and in the balcony. This intimate space is designed to engage the audience and make the theatre-going experience more meaningful. Arena Theatre The 100-seat Arena Theatre (located down the hallway from the Little Theatre) is home to the Department of Theatre & Dance's Studio Series with performances in the Arena and Grand Central Theatres. The Arena Theatre also features student showcases. This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.