Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Secondary Education (BS) – Science Ed – Chemistry – Education Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Secondary Education B.S. - Science Education Chemistry program offers students the option of two tracks: Science Education - Chemistry Track and Science Education - Chemistry Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification). The Education Track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, 6-12 schools that require certification. This Secondary Education B.S. - Science Education Chemistry program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Secondary-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution. Complete the EDF 2005 Introduction to Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses The Education Track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Counselor Education Professor High School Biology Teacher High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School History Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Music Director High School Teacher Literacy Education Professor Mathematics Education Professor Primary Education Professor Science Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Special Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Secondary Education (BS) - Science Ed - Chemistry - Education Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Secondary Education B.S. - Science Education Chemistry program offers students the option of two tracks: Science Education - Chemistry Track and Science Education - Chemistry Lifelong Learning Track (non-certification). The Education Track is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, 6-12 schools that require certification. This Secondary Education B.S. - Science Education Chemistry program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Secondary-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution. Complete the EDF 2005 Introduction to Teaching Profession course with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program) and 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses The Education Track is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following A grade of "C-" (1.75) or better is required. Transfer Notes: Courses taken at Florida College System institutions may substitute for select courses in this section with the permission of the department. MAC 1114C - College Trigonometry (3) is required for the major and may be completed in the GEP Complete the following: EDF2130 - Child and Adolescent Development for Educators (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits A grade of "C-" (1.75) or better is required. Education Core Requirements 18 Total Credits Complete all of the following EDG 4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) and TSL 4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) are prerequisites to Internship I. Complete the following: EDF4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment (3) EDF4603 - Analysis and Application of Ethical, Legal, and Safety Issues in Schools (3) EDG4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) EEX4242 - Teaching Exceptional Students in Secondary Settings (3) RED4043 - Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) Education Track Specialization Requirements 31 Total Credits Complete all of the following BSC 2010C - Biology I (4) and PHY 2053C - College Physics I (4) are prerequisites for Internship I and may be completed in the GEP. CHM 2045C - Chemistry Fundamentals I (4), CHM 2046 - Chemistry Fundamentals II (3), and CHM 2046L - Chemistry Fundamentals Laboratory (1) are prerequisites for Internship I and should be completed in the CPP. SCE 4361 - Programs in Teaching Science (3), SCE 4633 - Secondary Science Curriculum (3), and SCE 4933 - Seminar on Secondary Science Education (3) are recommended prior to Internship I. Complete the following: CHM3120 - Analytical Chemistry (3) CHM3120L - Analytical Chemistry Laboratory (1) CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I (3) CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II (3) CHM2211L - Organic Laboratory Techniques I (2) BCH4053 - Biochemistry I (3) SCE4361 - Programs in Teaching Science (3) SCE4633 - Secondary Science Curriculum (3) SCE4933 - Seminar on Secondary Science Education (3) Earn at least 7 credits from the following types of courses: 3000/4000 level CHS or CHM Elective (3) 3000/4000 level elective approved by advisor (4) Internship I Block 7 Total Credits Complete all of the following Program Internship I Prerequisites: EDG 4410, TSL 4080, all Common Program Prerequisites, all Core Requirements: Basic Level, and at least 50% of all required specialization courses must be completed prior to Internship I with a minimum grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission to Internship I. It is strongly recommended that SCE 4361, SCE 4633 and SCE 4933 are taken prior to Internship I. Passing score on the General Knowledge Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is required before entry into Internship I. Passing score on the Professional Education Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is strongly recommended as soon as possible after completing the following courses: EDG 4410, EDF 4467, RED 4043, and TSL 4080. Students must apply and be approved for Internship I. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Strongly recommended to complete SCE 3940 and SCE 4360 concurrently in the fall semester. For students completing SCE 3940 in fall semester, SCE 4360 will be taken as a co-requisite. For students completing SCE 3940 in spring semester, SCE 4360 will be taken as a pre-requisite in the fall semester prior to internship. Complete the following: SCE4360 - Science Instructional Analysis (4) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: SCE 3940 - Internship Internship II Block 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following At least 80% of all required specialization courses and all education/methods courses must be completed with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better before admission into Internship II. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission into Internship II. Passing scores on all sections [General Knowledge, Professional, and Subject Area (Chemistry 6-12)] of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) are required prior to entry into Internship II. Students must apply and be approved for Internship II. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Satisfactory completion of Internship II requires the student to demonstrate proficiency in all Florida Educator Accomplished Practices in accordance with State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Complete the following: ESE4033C - Critical Issues and Trends in Secondary Education (3) Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: SCE 4941 - Internship Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida