Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Commencement Departmental Ceremonies 2022 Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Planning Information Sunday, May 29, 2022 | 2:30 -4:30 p.m. (est.) Departmental Ceremonies are held by each academic department following the University Commencement Ceremony. These smaller ceremonies held by academic departments provide a more intimate atmosphere for families and graduates. Please note that “Diploma Ceremonies” are now being referred to as Departmental Ceremonies. Departments holding Departmental Ceremonies should be aware of the following process and deadlines. For a link to a recording of the 2022 Departmental Ceremonies Info Session, please email universityeven[email protected]. 2022 Departmental Ceremony Planning Deadlines: November 30: Evaluate and communicate your space and equipment needs to Event Support by this date. December 17: Watch for an email from Smartsheet that will contain previous facilities orders for academic departments to check and confirm. January 10: Deadline to submit your Facilities updates via the Event Support Smartsheet email. January 31: Menus will be live on CaterTrax. February: Schedule a meeting with a Catering Event Specialist. March 11: Deadline for all orders to be submitted into CaterTrax. April 1: Deadline to submit your Media Services requests. More information is available at: https://it.brown.edu/media-services-support-campus-events. April 29: All Catering orders are final, no more changes will be accepted. May 2: Order your program template via OUC's Departmental Ceremony Program Form. May 13: Submit program content to OUC by this date (preferably earlier) and become familiar with the review process and timeline. May 27: Final name drops or additions to programs due to OUC immediately following 1 p.m. Corporation meeting. May 27: Final program approved required by 2 p.m. May 27: Program prints will be available for pick up at Allegra (102 Waterman Street) until 6 p.m, with extended hours available on Saturday from 8 a.m. - 12 noon. Clients will be texted when programs are ready for pick up. What to Expect on Commencement Day Event Support will provide you with a list of important contact names and phone numbers. You will be assigned an Event Support contact person who will process your orders as well as check your ceremonies and receptions on Commencement Day. If you have any questions about the logistics for your event, please email [email protected] or call ext. 3-7820. Your assigned Event Support Staff member will be on-site on Sunday and will check in with you regarding your space and set-up. Diplomas will no longer be handed out at Departmental Ceremonies and will instead be mailed to the student's home address. Students will continue to be recognized at their ceremony and will receive a diploma cover when they walk across the stage. Download the BrownU app and visit the Commencement section for the most up-to-date information including schedules, maps, departmental ceremony locations and more. As many of you are on the frontlines on Commencement Day, this app will allow you to provide valuable information to your guests. It will be helpful to watch the Livestream of the University Ceremony to get a sense of exactly when the ceremony ends to prepare for guests' arrival. Visit commencement.brown.edu for the latest Commencement information and messaging. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat