Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home Who We Are Leadership Team Larissa Holtmyer Jones, President and CEO Larissa Holtmyer Jones is responsible for the people, processes and systems that advance the mission of Iowa State University through philanthropy, and oversees stewardship for the gifts the university receives. She serves as principal liaison between the leadership of Iowa State and the foundation board of directors. Holtmyer Jones previously served as vice president for development at the foundation, a role she had held since August 2008. Lisa Eslinger, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer Lisa Eslinger serves as chief financial and administrative officer. In her role, Eslinger is responsible for finance and investments, governance, human resources, data and information technology systems, legal matters and donor compliance. She also serves on the foundation’s gift acceptance committee. Jeremy Galvin, Vice President of Development Jeremy Galvin serves as the vice president of development, a position he has held at the Iowa State University Foundation since 2015. Prior to that he served at the Iowa State University Foundation as the assistant vice president, senior director of development for the College of Business, and as a development officer on the annual and special gifts team. Jeremy has been with the foundation since 2003. He oversees fundraising for the principal and leadership gifts marketplace, athletics, College of Business, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, College of Engineering, College of Human Sciences, College of Design, corporate relations and the donor experience team. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top