COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Economics, Major MajorEconomics All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Economics The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in economics from Wichita State's Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. You'll be eligible to compete for some of the state's largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how economics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Economics student used her skills to help fellow students As an economics major, Stella Yang spent her senior year helping transform the student fees process as treasurer of the Student Government Association. Stella took the opportunity to meaningfully work with staff and students across the university. “It was really cool being able to get together with students and people at all different levels at the university to come together and work on the solution that worked best,” she said. Curriculum You will study three main areas of economics—macro, micro and statistics—in addition to core business courses. The BBA in economics degree also offers a real-estate emphasis (the only one found at a Kansas regents' university) for students interested in broader conceptual and policy issues associated with real estate and land use. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor's degree in economics from Wichita State is excellent preparation for graduate-level economics programs—leading to careers in business, law, public service and many other fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Accounting Accounting (Minor) Economics (Minor) Finance Finance (Minor) Management 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©