Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Graduate Certificate Develop critical career skills through the innovative Graduate Certificate in Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics in Temple’s College of Engineering. Through this flexible and easily customizable nine-credit graduate certificate, created specifically for working engineering professionals, students will acquire advanced mechanical engineering knowledge, such as design, structural analysis, manufacturing, and the maintenance of mechanical systems. It will also develop professional leadership skills for those seeking technical specialist, project supervisor or sales manager positions. While earning a bachelor's in engineering can be foundational for careers outside of the profession such as business, medicine or law, the Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) from Temple allows engineers and engineering professionals to acquire new certifications and take the next step in their careers. Classes focus on the design of robots for manufacturing purposes. Topics include control and optimization of robots for manufacturing; different systems including ball-screws, cams, hydraulic and pneumatic; and fabrication of inhomogeneous and anisotropic materials. Classes are offered fully online and comprise six, 1.5 credit courses. Master of Engineering and Stacked Certificates Temple’s College of Engineering offers an innovative master’s program designed for working engineers and other engineering professionals. The program is designed to deliver critical career skills in a series of nine-credit certificates. Three of the certificates listed below can be stacked along with an integrative capstone project to earn the Master of Engineering degree. The nine-credit certificates available to students interested in pursuing the Master of Engineering at Temple University are as follows. Advanced Manufacturing/Robotics Certificate Cybersecurity Engineering Management New Product Development Project Management The Master of Engineering enables students to select the certificates relevant to their interests, which can be taken on a stand-alone basis or combined with other graduate certificates for enhanced cross-disciplinary training. Classes & Curriculum All courses for the Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) are offered online only. Courses you will take as part of the Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) program are as follows. Automation in Manufacturing Introduction to Mobile Robotics Manufacturing Engineering Modern Dynamics for Robotics Robotic Manipulation Learn more about courses within the Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) program. Careers Skilled engineers who can participate across disciplines are in increasingly high demand as industries evolve. An undergraduate engineering education alone may not provide the unique set of technical skills required by professionals for their specialty. The Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) prepares working engineers to take the next step in their robotics or manufacturing careers, developing the skills needed to not only lead, but innovate. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Program Contact For questions regarding admissions to the Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) program, please contact the following staff members. Colleen P. Baillie, director of enrollment management in the College of Engineering. Phone: 215-204-7800 Email: colleenb@temple.edu Tom Edwards, director of the Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) program. Phone: 215-204-7794 Email: tuc56565@temple.edu EN-AMR-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info