Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School DAAD Study Scholarships and Research Grants Graduate School Skip to Navigation DAAD Study Scholarships and Research Grants DAAD provides funding for graduate students to complete research in Germany. The Graduate School conducts a pre-selection process of priority candidates in advance of the final DAAD deadline. Submission Instructions for the DAAD Study Scholarships & Research Grants: Brown graduate students must submit a final application through the DAAD online portal. Internal Brown deadline: October 25, 2021 Once you submit the application electronically, the system will generate a pdf of your complete application. Faculty should submit letters of recommendation via the DAAD portal and provide a hard copy of the letter to the student in a signed and sealed envelope. If the faculty member prefers, the hard copy of the letter can be sent directly to Will Wittels, Academic Affairs Specialist in the Graduate School. Once the applicant has the pdf, email a copy of the pdf to Will Wittels and Barbara Bennett. In addition, please submit the hard copy of the reference letter (in the signed, sealed envelope) to Thomas A. Lewis (Horace Mann 210) or Barbara Bennett (Horace Mann 109). If neither are available to receive it, please bring the materials to Horace Mann 203. The pdf and the hard copy of the letter must be received by October 25. If the faculty member has submitted the letter directly to us, the applicant should indicate that in a separate note. For questions, please contact Thomas A Lewis, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Graduate School. Submissions for the Short-term Research Grant and applicants in the artistic fields should apply directly through DAAD. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants