Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Learning & Development FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials What log-in credentials should I enter to access the LawRoom site? The link in the email from LawRoom announcing that your training is available for access or the reminder that you have training to complete takes you to a single sign on page where you should enter your SMU credentials - your SMU ID# and your uniquely created password. The single sign-in process was added for security purposes. I click on the link in the email from LawRoom and nothing is visible - what's wrong? There are two main reasons this might occur. 1. Prior browsing history may be keeping you from accessing the LawRoom site. Clear your browsing history, also know as clear your cache, and click on the link in your email to access the site again. Access the OIT webpage for instructions on how to clear your cache. 2. If this doesn't work, you should try switching to a different browser. We find that Chrome and Firefox interact the best with LawRoom. 3. Software on your computer may be out of date. Google Java and Adobe Flash via a browser window and download the latest versions of the software. Clear you cache again and access the training again via the link in your email. If none of these work, please contact the Lawroom Help Desk at I received an email to complete the training however when I go to Lawroom I am told that I can't log in with my credentials. The process of activating and de-activating your account in Lawroom is automated. If you received an email announcing training was available and later attempt to access the link in the email and receive this message, you may no longer be considered an "active" employee of the University. This means that the end date of your employment has been passed and your LawRoom account has been de-activated. This occurs most often with adjunct faculty and temporary employees. If you have questions, please contact us at: DevelopU@smu.edu I received an email announcing training was assigned however I don't know why this training was assigned to me. Most likely you have been identified as needing the training due to your job duties with the University and you may or may not have been notified of the need to train by the assigning group. Please contact the appropriate group identified below if this happens to you: Police Department for Clery Act Training OIT Help Desk for FERPA training HR for Program for the Protection of Minors (Recognize and Report Child Abuse), Harassment and Discrimination (Stop Harassment and Discrimination for employees and Supervisory Anti-Harassment for managers), Eliminate Campus Sexual Violence, and Checkpoint Data Security and Privacy. I received an email to complete training however I have already completed it. Do I have to do it again? There are three ways training is assigned to employees: 1. as new employees are on-boarded for the first time for completion within their probationary period 2. upon rehire after an employee as left the University and returned and their training is out of date 3. due to job responsibilities requiring the training Some of the training is assigned a "refresh" period, meaning you are asked to retrain on the topic to ensure you remain current on the information. Following are the "refresh" periods for the tutorials: Program for the Protection of Minors: every two years Visit the webpage for more info on the Program. Harassment and Discrimination Prevention: every three years Data Security and Privacy: upon hire only - no refresh assignment FERPA: every three years. Visit the FERPA webpage for more information. Training is assigned as new employees are on-boarded with scheduled completion within their probationary period. After that, training is re-assigned according to the above refresh schedule specified on the anniversary of the original assignment of the training (not the anniversary of your completion). LawRoom will notify you via their "e-minders" that the training is available and the "e-minders" will continue until the training is completed. Other role changes that might cause training to be assigned to you: You transfer to a new position with the University which has specific job responsibilities which might require the training. An example is in your new role you are designated as a Campus Security Authority, or CSA, requiring Clery Act training. Another example is via a request to OIT for security access to student records, requiring FERPA training. If you have questions, please contact the following: OIT Help Desk for FERPA training HR for Program for the Protection of Minors (Recognize and Report Child Abuse), Harassment and Discrimination (Stop Harassment and Discrimination for employees and Supervisory Anti-Harassment for managers), Eliminate Campus Sexual Violence, and Checkpoint Data Security and Privacy. Learning & Development Total Orientation Process (TOP) On-Demand Learning Professional Development Opportunities Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials HR Facilitators HRTR Request Form Linked-In Learning Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Can't find what you need? DevelopU@smu.edu benefitsu@smu.edu 214-768-3311 Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share