Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Special Collections Department Forms Policies Reading Room Policy Copyright Usage Policy Reproduction Policy Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries Special Collections Dept. Policy Reading Room Use Policy The University Libraries Special Collections Department is dedicated to supporting the academic success of University of Memphis students and providing exceptional information and service to our campus community and beyond. Due to the Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19), the Special Collections Department will not open to researchers without an appointment during operating hours until further notice. To support social distancing, the reading room will accommodate only one (1) researcher at a time. Inquiries for use of the Reading Room The Special Collections Department will be available for research by appointment only. Researchers interested in using archival materials, library-use only books, or microfilm currently housed in the department will need to make an inquiry to ensure the material sought is available. Once confirmed, researchers will make an appointment with archival staff. No one without an appointment will be admitted to the department. Researchers wanting to contact the department can do so by phone, 901-678-2210, or email specialcollections@memphis.edu. Researcher procedures for the Reading Room In accordance with University of Memphis requirements based upon the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control, researchers will wear a mask upon entering the Special Collections Department. Staff will provide requested materials from a designated table in the reading room. Special Collections has a one item at a time policy, and researchers will return materials to the designated table after use and then retrieve other requested items provided by staff. Researchers will be permitted to leave for bathroom breaks or extended breaks and will be given instructions on how to reenter the reading room. Remote access to Special Collections Many inquiries to Special Collections can be fulfilled through telephone and email and the use of such means is encouraged. If a request can be completed in this manner, Special Collections staff will work with the researcher to fulfill the request without requiring a visit to Special Collections. Due to the Novel Coronavirus, in-house staff has been minimized to ensure social distancing. The Special Collections staff appreciates your patience in these unprecedented times. Special Collections Department University of Memphis Libraries 901-678-2210 or email specialcollections@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.