COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Shocker Innovation Corps Section Menu WSU Strategic Initiatives Research Capabilities Research & Development Capabilities Research Labs Partnering Venture Opportunities Resources for Innovators Forms & Agreements FAQs Funding Opportunities Shocker I-Corps SBIR/STTR Funding Our Team Contact Us EVENTS National Defense Prototype Center Press Release SHOCKER I-CORPS IN TRANSITION. WE ARE NOT CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN THE NSF I-CORPS PROGRAM PLEASE CONTACT SHERRY WHITSON AT 316-978-6359 OR SHERRY.WHITSON@WICHITA.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION. UPDATES TO COME IN THE NEAR FUTURE. Why Should I Apply for I-Corps? WSU Engineering Team Selected to Participate in National I-Corps A Wichita State University engineering team has been accepted to participate in the National Science Foundation (NSF) Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program. The MagicHand team began the seven-week program, which is designed to provide a path to commercialization, in March. The team conducts research into robotic grasping, dexterous manipulation, and context perception. The team consists of Hui Li, engineering graduate student; Hongsheng He, assistant professor in the School of Computing; and Vis Madhavan, professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering and founder of Fairmount Technologies LLC. Li serves as the entrepreneurial lead. Dr. He is the team’s academic lead and Madhavan is the team’s mentor – roles required by the NSF for all I-Corps projects. Read Full Article Read PARROT Article Wichita State University is a National Science Foundation (NSF) I-Corps site. The Shocker Innovation Corps nurtures and supports Wichita State entrepreneurial teams interested in transitioning their STEM ideas, devices, processes or other intellectual activities into the marketplace in anticipation of profit. Ideas/projects can originate from student work, research (funded or unfunded) and institutional/industrial projects. The topical focus of a project must be in a STEM area. Why apply for Shocker Innovation Corps? Seed funding (up to $2,150 per applicant) Customer validation training and experience Mentoring from local experts Access to entrepreneurial resources Networking with the local innovation ecosystem Maintain your IP rights Shocker Innovation Corps Teams Each Shocker Innovation Corps applicant must have a team that includes an Entrepreneurial Lead, an Academic Lead, and a Mentor. The Entrepreneurial Lead can be a Post-Doctoral scholar, graduate student, undergraduate or other student, or professional university staff member, with relevant knowledge of the technology and a deep commitment to investigate the commercial landscape surrounding the innovation. The Entrepreneurial Lead must be capable and have the desire to support the transition of the technology, should the project demonstrate the potential for commercial viability. The Mentor must be an experienced or emerging entrepreneur with proximity to WSU and experienced in transitioning technology out of academic labs. The Mentor is a third-party resource. The mentor can be selected by the Entrepreneurial Lead. If you have not identified a Mentor or need assistance identifying a mentor, please indicate this information on the application and WSU Ventures will do our best to match you with a mentor for your project. The Academic Lead must have an academic appointment that would normally qualify him/her to submit proposals or play the role of a Principle Investigator in subsequent submissions to NSF. Funding Specifics As part of the I-Corps commercialization initiative, the Shocker Innovation Corps will provide up to $2,150 per team for 30 teams each year. This funding is awarded to accepted teams during a six-month period to support team-based customer discovery research aimed at investigating the commercial viability of a product or a specific market application of a novel process, algorithm, device, or other technology. The Shocker Innovation Corps award can be used to fund any expenses related to customer discovery research, including prototyping costs. Teams have approximately six months to spend their awards. Expenses can include: Materials and Supplies: used to create a prototype (for products) or pilot program (for services) Meetings, Conferences, Tradeshows and Training: Cost of registration/admission as well as ancillary costs associated. (i.e., transportation, meals, speaker’s fees, etc.) Conference must be related to product/service industry Meetings hosted by the team for the purpose of customer discovery or market research Transportation: Costs related to the delivery of goods (freight, postage or other transportation services relating to goods purchased or delivered) Travel costs: Costs related to travel, accommodations, and meals while traveling for the purpose of customer discovery and market research *Legal fees and Administrative Costs (office supplies and equipment) cannot be included. Additional follow-on funding is available, but not guaranteed. Note these are competitive programs: NSF I-Corp Team grant providing $50,000 SBIR Programs providing up to $150,000 for Phase I E-Launch Completion Requirements The Entrepreneurial Lead for each team must commit to attending E-Launch training (six sessions), complete required assignments, meetings with mentor, market research, customer delivery, and other fundamental entrepreneurial activities. The EL will receive discounted tuition for the E-Launch training sessions, and the $250 will be deducted from the seed funding. Completion of a minimum of two training sessions will be required before the initial disbursement of seed funding becomes available. Failure to successfully complete the program training elements may be grounds for disqualification from the Shocker Innovation Corps program and forfeiture and/or repayment of any seed funding associated with the program. Expected outcomes: Commercialization of team projects Applications submitted by Site teams to NSF's I-Corp Team Program New start-up businesses Licensing agreements Creation of business plans suitable for review by third-party investors All teams will make a “go/no-go” decision about commercialization of their technology within six months of receiving funding. The program was very well built and offers great knowledge and tools to tackle very important and decisive aspects of a businessJefferson Vieira Shiver Solutions Being at WSU and being a National Science Foundation program has helped us tremendously as far as showing people what we've been able to accomplish since we've started which adds even more credibility for us going forward and ultimately led to people trusting us to not only invest, but to partner with us as we developed our program.Steven Werner Lawn Buddy Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) iCorps Flyer Past Team Accomplishments Wichita State team receives $1 million NSF award for navagation app that aids the visually impaired NSF I-Corps program at Wichita State helps launch Kansas City biotechnology startup Shocker engineers create deicing device Visit WSU Strategic Initiatives John Bardo Center Room 163 1815 Innovation Boulevard Wichita, KS 67208 Call (316) 978-5363 Business Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (CST) Monday - Friday Connect strategicinitiatives@wichita.edu Subscribe to our Newsletter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©