Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Police » Mission, Vision and Values Set Navigation title in component Mission, Vision and Values 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Mission, Vision and Values The University of Cincinnati Police Division upholds the vision, mission and principles listed below. Vision Statement Be a preeminent leader in urban campus policing, grounded in core principles and driven by innovative solutions. Mission Statement The mission of the UCPD is to maintain a safe and secure campus environment, where the pursuit of academic excellence can prosper. We provide service with compassion; treat everyone, including ourselves, with dignity and respect; and work collaboratively to solve problems. We enforce the law with fairness and impartiality. We value a diverse and inclusive work environment. We support our personnel and invest heavily in our training and education to enhance the quality of service we provide. We make decisions that are moral, constitutional, and respectful of individual rights and community interests. Core Principles In all things and in all ways, we strive to uphold the following core principles of policing: Transparency. We work to build trust with our community through transparency in our actions. We are open in our dealings with our community, while maintaining confidentiality when it is required. We routinely and openly share information and educate our community regarding patterns of crime and disorder, and crime prevention methods. Legitimacy. We work to build trust with our community through legitimacy in our actions. We strive to represent the diverse population we serve, and create a culture of excellence through equity and inclusion. We perform our duties to the best of our abilities, and strive to be judicious in our behaviors. We aspire to maintain integrity in all that we do. We provide leadership and strength to our community, especially in times of crisis. Fairness. We work to provide quality service through fairness and impartiality in our decision-making. We pledge to treat all people with dignity and respect, and make decisions based on the application of legal principles, facts of an incident, and input from all parties involved, regardless of individuals' race and ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion, citizenship status, or other differences. Collaboration. We work to build partnerships in our community by engaging in collaboration. We involve others in our problem solving practices, and create a culture of shared responsibility for public safety. We seek feedback regarding our performance and impact on others in our community, recognizing that community involvement is essential for effective policing. Innovation. We work to enhance our efforts by embracing innovation in all its forms. We strive for continuous improvement by advancing our education, training and skills. We use evidence-based strategies, while continually monitoring and scientifically testing the effectiveness of our practices and outcomes. We provide state-of-the-art training and technology as a foundation for problem solving and community policing. We are inspired by, and dedicated to, advancing our agency through creativity and innovation. Accountability. We work to build trust with our community by holding ourselves accountable for our actions. We adhere to the law and departmental policies, and are receptive to guidance from our supervisors and managers. We strive to maintain professionalism and integrity, and when we fall short, we take immediate corrective action. We include oversight in our accountability mechanisms from our community, noting that outside perspectives are valuable and important. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top