Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Bioeconomy Institute Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Open dropdown menu Leading the Bioeconomy Conversations about Carbon Facilities Virtual BEI BEI Trading Cards Research Opportunities Open dropdown menu Proposal Assistance Career Opportunities Additional Resources Biorenewable Research Laboratory Open dropdown menu Research ADM Education Laboratories Art in the BRL News & Events Open dropdown menu News Events 2022 Carbon Removal Forum Contact Open dropdown menu People Directions & Visitor Information Home The Bioeconomy Institute at Iowa State University is a 2022 XPRIZE Milestone awardee and leads the nation and world in establishing the bioeconomy, where society obtains renewable fuel, energy, chemicals, and materials from agricultural resources. More about BEI ISU team receives XPRIZE Carbon Removal milestone award for innovative vision to remove carbon from the atmosphere An Iowa State University research team that helped develop a demonstration-scale pyrolyzer capable of sequestering thousands of tons of carbon dioxide a year has received a prestigious milestone award from XPRIZE Carbon Removal. Get the scoop Innovation at Work: Breaking ground on next-generation agricultural markets Iowa soil is good at growing crops. In fact, it’s probably the best agricultural soil in the world. And, while Iowa’s farmland has proven itself to be a powerhouse for producing cash crops like corn and soybeans, Iowa State University scientists are dreaming up innovative ways to grow new value, new markets and new revenue streams from Iowa soils. Full story Robert Brown and Lisa Schulte Moore named co-directors of Bioeconomy Institute The Iowa State University Office of the Vice President for Research announced recently that Robert Brown and Lisa Schulte Moore will serve as co-directors of the nationally renowned Bioeconomy Institute. Learn more Conversations About Carbon Join us and bring your lunch (virtually), as we talk with guests each month. We'll talk about all issues and topics related carbon repair and removal. Did you miss a conversation? Don't worry - past conversations are available to watch later on video. Join the conversation Iowa State receives $231.1 million in external research funding in FY2021 Total External Funding for University Sets New Benchmark at $559.1 million “Anston Marston Distinguished Professor in Engineering and director of the Bioeconomy Institute, Robert Brown, received an award of $2.7 million from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The funding is being used to create a system that converts plastic wastes generated by military forces into fatty alcohols and fatty acids that can be used to create food sources…” Read full article The Role of Pyrolysis and Gasification in a Carbon Negative Economy Abstract: The International Panel on Climate Change and the 2015 Climate Summit in Paris have recommended that efforts to reduce carbon emissions be coupled with carbon removal from the atmosphere. Carbon negative energy combines net carbon removal with the production of energy products or other revenue-generating products beyond sequestered carbon… Access full paper Bioeconomy Institute 617 Bissell Road 1140 Biorenewables Research Laboratory Ames, IA 50011-1098 rgsmith@iastate.edu Directions Social media Twitter Facebook YouTube Vimeo Email newsletter Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information