Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Biology Department Menu Main Nav Biology Department Biology Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Giving to Biology News and Notes Open Positions Science on Campus People Undergraduate Overview Current Students Research Experience Research for Credit Undergraduate Research Day Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Program Academic Advising First-Year Students Forms & Resources Frequently Asked Questions B.S./M.S. Program Majors Minors Careers Science Education Summer Research Experiences Health Professions Professional Development Events and Activities Undergraduate Seminars SACNAS Graduate Overview B.S./M.S. Program Forms and Resources Program Policy Tuition, Stipend and Health Care International Students Graduate Consortium Recent Ph.D. Graduates Research Overview Seminars Seminars 2020-2021 Seminars 2019-2020 Seminars 2018-2019 Seminars 2017-2018 Seminars 2016-2017 Seminars 2015-2016 Seminars 2014-2015 Seminars 2013-2014 Seminars 2012-2013 Scientific Retreats 2017 Retreat Data Club Data Club Archive Science on Tap! Faculty Research Selected Publications Core Facilities Imaging Facility Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Bioinformatics Server Cleanroom and Nanofabrication Facility Diversity and Outreach Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Biology Department Home Graduate Graduate B.S./M.S. Program Forms and Resources Program Policy Tuition, Stipend and Health Care International Students Graduate Consortium Recent Ph.D. Graduates Graduate Program Research lies at the heart of the graduate experience at Boston College. Graduate students work directly with faculty in their labs while continuing their education. Current areas of faculty scholarship and expertise include Cell and Developmental Biology, Microbiology and Infectious Disease, and Computational Biology and Bioinformatics. Within these areas of study the department offers a program of study leading to a Ph.D. For more information about faculty research visit the Research page. The Biology department also offers state-of-the-art research laboratories and core-research support facilities, including confocal microscopy, flow cytometry, and FACS facilities. The Biology Ph.D. program at Boston College teaches students the research and communication skills needed for a successful career in the sciences. Our program provides a firm foundation in the principles of modern biology, and enhances critical thinking, experimental skills, and presentation abilities throughout coursework, research, seminars, and teaching experience. The department's faculty are experienced in teaching and advising students while continuing their commitment to innovative research. In this environment students participate in a culture that is defined by both relationships in the laboratory and in the classroom. Students can choose to pursue a concentration in Cell and Developmental Biology, Computational Biology, or Molecular and Infectious Disease. Our graduates have gone on to productive careers at universities and research institutions across the country, as well as within the biotech industry, consulting, intellectual property and patent law and related fields. Get Started Request Information Apply Now Department Reqirements Questions about the Biology department's graduate program? Charles Hoffman, Ph.D. Graduate Program Director charles.hoffman@bc.edu 617-552-2279 Dina Goodfriend Associate Director, Administrative & Graduate Services dina.goodfriend@bc.edu 617-552-2858 The Biology Graduate Program of Boston College is recruiting talented Candidates for Fall 2022 Research Concentrations Developmental & Cell Biology Microbiology & Infectious disease Computational Biology Key features of the program include First year course work and laboratory rotations leading to the selection of a PhD thesis lab Emphasis on the principles of scientific reasoning, logic, effective communication and the ethical conduct of research Advanced course seminars offered throughout the graduate career Extensive mentoring and support Benefits 12-month stipend of $35,500 for academic year Free Health Care Insurance Tuition Remission Financial support to attend meetings and training courses Department commitment to support professional development of each graduate student Access to Boston’s vibrant research community to facilitate collaborations and career opportunities Other Graduate Student Resources Division of Student Affairs Morrissey College Graduate School Graduate Student Life Graduate Student Association Counseling Services Student Outreach and Support Services Office of Institutional Diversity Student Services Graduate Forms Vice Provost for Research Learning Outcomes Learning outcomes for students who complete a Ph.D. in Biology include being able to: Conduct original, publishable research in a field of Biology. Formulate a novel research question and design the experiments required to make advances in the field. Demonstrate a broad knowledge of theory and research in several areas of Biology and an in-depth knowledge of a specific area of expertise. Display an understanding of the ethical guidelines for biological research and be able to follow such guidelines. Communicate the findings of their research both orally and in writing to professional and lay audiences. Back To Top Back To Top Biology Department 355 Higgins Hall 617-552-3540 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Biology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College