Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Rhode Island | All-Ivy Polo Potluck Tailgate(Newport vs. Mexico) Events Past Event CAA Rhode Island | All-Ivy Polo Potluck Tailgate(Newport vs. Mexico) Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 18, 2021 3:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York Off-campus Brown Club of RI invites its alumni and alumni of Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Princeton, U Penn and Yale gather for a tailgate potluck in conjunction with The Newport International Polo Series (Newport vs. Mexico). Please bring your own seating and a dish to share. BCRI will supply water and soft drinks. Parking is free and available across from the tailgate area (not in the tailgate area). Due to COVID19 spacing, we are only able to accommodate tailgate ticket holders in the tailgate area to prevent overcrowding. The All-Ivy tailgate potluck will begin at 3:00 p.m. prior to the Newport vs. Mexico polo match scheduled for 4:00 p.m. RSVP By 9/14/21 through the website and contact Lisa Frappier for availability and RSVPs after that date (Lisa will email you tickets after payment is made, please note that there is a several day delay in the system for processing so it could take up to a week). For additional information, questions, and to check for availability and RSVP after 9/14/21, please reach out Lisa Frappier ‘85 at [email protected] https://bbis.advancement.brown.edu/bbphenix/Events/Brown-Club-of-Rhode-Island/2021/All-IvyPoloPotluckTailgateNewportvsMexico Contact Information CAA Global and Diversity Engagement [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close