Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > BC Events > Commencement > Boston College presents 2022 Finnegan Award to Jenna Mu A life-changing experience Jenna Mu wins BC's highest Commencement honor, the Edward H. Finnegan, S.J. Award Photos by Caitlin Cunningham A member of the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program, this year’s recipient of Boston College's Edward H. Finnegan, S.J. Award—presented to the graduating senior who best exemplifies the University’s motto, “Ever to Excel”—is passionate about global public health, dentistry, and environmental justice, and pursued opportunities at the intersections of these fields. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences student Jenna Mu, equally passionate about service, is dedicated to the Boston College ideal of “men and women for others.” “Jenna truly exemplifies the Boston College motto ‘Ever to Excel’ in her academic performance and especially in her service to others,” wrote Associate Dean Michael Martin in a nomination letter. “I am immensely honored to receive this award, which would not have been possible without the incredible people in my life: my family, my friends, and my mentors, who have supported and inspired me to be a woman for others,” Mu said. “My time at BC has been life changing. Through classes, student organizations, service opportunities, research, and quality time with friends, I have reflected critically on who I am as a student, leader, public servant, researcher, and friend. BC has inspired me to become my most authentic self, and the lessons and insights gained are ones that I embrace on a daily basis.” Mu, who completed an independent Global Public Health major, plans to pursue advanced degrees in dental medicine and public policy. Her goal is to reduce health disparities and environmental degradation locally, nationally, and globally. “My major allowed me to pursue my interest in dentistry from multiple lenses, to understand and examine current issues facing the field.” As an Undergraduate Research Fellow at BC’s Global Observatory on Pollution and Health, she “became fascinated with policy, which allows me to fuse classroom concepts with research and statistics to inform tangible policy recommendations that can improve people’s lives.” She also served as a student ambassador for the Global Public Health and the Common Good program, and cites GOPH Director and Professor of Biology Philip Landrigan as “such an influential mentor to me and so many other BC students.” “My time at BC has been life changing. Through classes, student organizations, service opportunities, research, and quality time with friends, I have reflected critically on who I am as a student, leader, public servant, researcher, and friend. BC has inspired me to become my most authentic self, and the lessons and insights gained are ones that I embrace on a daily basis.” 2022 Finnegan Award winner Jenna Mu Among her impressive academic achievements, Mu—who said the GPSP “expanded my horizons, in both a figurative and literal sense”—was elected to the United States Department of Education Presidential Scholars Program. She also won a prestigious Truman Scholarship, which supports undergraduates committed to public service; in the year ahead, she will join the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Rural Health Policy, drafting briefs for the HHS secretary. As an undergraduate, Mu—who served as an Undergraduate Teaching Assistant for courses in BC’s Biology and Chemistry departments—sought out research and internships in health-related public service. As a Harvard School of Dental Medicine research assistant, she collaborated with dentists from Harvard and the University of Rwanda to evaluate strategies for the reduction of dental waste in sub-Saharan Africa, which resulted in two policy briefs. Jenna Mu: “BC is truly committed to educating the whole person.” Her tenure also included a wide range of service activities. On campus, she founded “BC Brushes” to reduce dental waste from residence halls, and co-founded BC Partners in Health Engage—a chapter of the global public health organization Partners in Health)—and calls her involvement “among my most memorable experiences at BC. I developed my leadership philosophy: I believe that the most effective leaders are those who empower others.” Mu also assisted underserved Boston populations as a volunteer at both Haley House and “Bridge Over Troubled Waters,” and was the only undergraduate intern to serve on the Boston Urban Forest Plan Advisory Board. “My interest in service started from an early age,” said Mu, who comes from Omaha, Nebraska. “When my parents, who both work in the healthcare field, would talk about their daily experiences, I was fascinated by how they served others and transformed lives. My older brother Jesse attended BC and spoke of how he was empowered to blend his interests in computer science and service. It inspired me to blend my interests in dentistry and environmental justice with service. “BC is truly committed to educating the whole person,” Mu added. “Through rigorous coursework, a variety of student organizations, and a plethora of service opportunities, students are able to learn about themselves intellectually, ethically, and socially, as well as reflect on how they can most effectively be people for others.” What will Mu miss most about BC? “The people. The BC community is passionate, caring, and service oriented. I am beyond grateful for the opportunity to attend BC and meet mentors who have changed my life and friends whom I will love for life.” In the letter informing her that she had won the award, Vice Provost for Undergraduate Academic Affairs Akua Sarr wrote of Mu: “Your distinguished academic achievement, strong record of service, and your commitment to excellence offer powerful examples for all of us at “the Heights.” Meet the finalists for the 2022 Finnegan Award. Rosanne Pellegrini | University Communications | May 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College