Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content IAE Sexual Harassment/Title IX Sexual Harassment/Title IX Sexual Harassment Website What To Do If You're Sexually Assaulted Sexual Harassment Reporting Options Sexual Harassment Policies, Prevention and Resources Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures 1.17 Animals 3.1 Nondiscrimination, Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity 3.2 Needs of Persons with Disabilities 3.3 Title IX Sexual Harassment Brochures and Forms Educational Programs Faculty Recruitment ☰ Office of Institutional Access and Equity SMU IAE Home Office of Institutional Access and Equity (IAE) IAE Mission The Office of Institutional Access and Equity supports the University's mission to promote an environment emphasizing individual dignity and worth by maintaining policies, procedures, and programs that prohibit discrimination and foster access and equity within the University community. The Office is available to all SMU students, faculty, staff, applicants, and visitors to the University who have questions, concerns, or complaints regarding discrimination on a protected basis that includes race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, veteran status, sexual orientation and gender identity and expression. The Office of Institutional Access and Equity can be reached at 214-768-3601 or accessequity@smu.edu. IAE is located in Perkins Administration Building, Room 204. Summary of Responsibilities: The Office of Institutional Access and Equity works collaboratively with schools and departments across campus to help promote an environment that is free from discrimination and harassment. Responsibilities of the office include: Addressing concerns and complaints of discrimination on a protected basis from students, faculty, staff, applicants and visitors Annually updating and maintaining the University’s Affirmative Action Plan Working closely with the Office of the Provost to administer the SMU Model for Faculty Search and Recruitment Providing employee reasonable accommodations on the basis of a disability Conducting training on nondiscrimination policies and procedures including the Workplace Discrimination Issues for Manager’s Workshop Overseeing the administration of the University’s nondiscrimination policies and procedures Sexual Harassment and Title IX For questions or concerns regarding Title IX and sexual violence, please contact Samantha Thomas, the Title IX Coordinator in IAE. To file a complaint of Title IX sexual harassment including sexual assault, please complete the Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Form. The form can be submitted to IAE at accessequity@smu.edu or in Perkins Administration Building, Room 204. To make a third-party report of Title IX sexual harassment, please complete the Title IX Sexual Harassment Third-Party Report Form. Click here to access the SMU CEO Summary Data Report per the Texas Education Code, Section 51.253(c). ADA/504 For questions or concerns regarding disability issues, please contact Denise Gauthier, the ADA/504 Coordinator in IAE. For more information about accessibility at SMU, please visit the Resources and Campus Accessibility web page. Event Accessibility Statement University departments are responsible for providing reasonable accommodations for guests attending their events. IAE is available to provide guidance and assistance to departments as needed. IAE recommends that hosts of SMU events place the following statement on their event advertising: “Any person who requires a reasonable accommodation on the basis of a disability in order to participate in this program should contact the [department name] at [department phone number and/or email] at least one week prior to the event to arrange for the accommodation.” Web Accessibility SMU has introduced the Web Accessibility Initiative to make the SMU website accessible to all. A university-wide Web Accessibility Policy is now in place "to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and enhance the University's mission." Dedman College has added web accessibility resources to its Faculty Resource page. To report website barriers based on accessibility, email web-accessibility@SMU.edu. The initiative is in progress and we look forward to bringing you more information and resources as they come available. Statement of Nondiscrimination Southern Methodist University (SMU) will not discriminate in any employment practice, education program, education activity, or admissions on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, or veteran status. SMU’s commitment to equal opportunity includes nondiscrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity and expression. The Executive Director for Access and Equity/Title IX Coordinator is designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies, including the prohibition of sex discrimination under Title IX1. The Executive Director/Title IX Coordinator may be reached at the Perkins Administration Building, Room 204, 6425 Boaz Lane, Dallas, TX 75205, 214-768-3601, accessequity@smu.edu. Inquiries regarding the application of Title IX may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Education. 1 Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. §§ 1681-1688. IAE Home Sexual Harassment Website What To Do If You're Sexually Assaulted Policies and Procedures Brochures and Forms Educational Programs Faculty Search and Recruitment Emergency Procedures Contact Us Office Staff Related Links Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share