Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Outdoor Lab Summer Employment Events & Services Forward Arrow Events & Services Weddings Food Services Team Building Our Venues Back Arrow Back Vacations, Lodging & Amenities Camps & Programs Forward Arrow Camps & Programs Outdoor Lab Day Camp Camp Odyssey Jaycee Camp Hope Camp Sertoma Camp Lions Den Camp Sunshine Applications, Dates, Rates & Forms Support Our Camps Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close The Clemson University Outdoor Lab The Clemson Outdoor Lab provides meeting facilities, business team adventures, camps, weddings and venue services that are found in few other environments. With eight distinct venues offered, and several lodging accommodations, the Outdoor Lab is sure to be just what you're looking for in your next event. Whether it’s a work conference, a wedding, family reunion, team building, meeting, or any celebration, the Outdoor Lab is the place for you. Summer Employment Events & Services show submenu for Events & Services Weddings Food Services Team Building Our Venues Vacations, Lodging & Amenities Camps & Programs show submenu for Camps & Programs Outdoor Lab Day Camp Camp Odyssey Jaycee Camp Hope Camp Sertoma Camp Lions Den Camp Sunshine Applications, Dates, Rates & Forms Support Our Camps Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Current: Outdoor Lab Located a mere five miles from campus, the Clemson University Outdoor Lab offers unique experiences and impeccable scenery. The Outdoor Lab, placed on a beautiful peninsula within Lake Hartwell, provides meeting and programming possibilities that are found in few other environments. With eight distinct venues offered, and several lodging accommodations, the Outdoor Lab is sure to be just what you're looking for in your next event. Whether it’s a work conference, family reunion, team building, meeting, celebration of any sort, or even a wedding, the Outdoor Lab is the place for you. To find out more about what we offer explore our Event Services page. The Outdoor Lab is also home to several summer and weekend camps. Our programs are accredited by the American Camp Association ® and are designed to offer campers opportunities they won't get other places. Our amazing staff care for and lead campers in a variety of activities which include overnight camping, archery, canoeing, swimming, arts & crafts, drama, sailing, nature and more. Why Hold Events At The Outdoor Lab? About the Clemson's Outdoor Lab The Clemson University Outdoor Lab is a beautiful hideaway featuring the scenic views of Lake Hartwell. We host a variety of events, some of which include conferences, meetings, retreats, weddings, receptions, family reunions, cookouts, and celebrations. While visiting, guests can choose to take a pontoon boat ride or canoe trip out on Lake Hartwell, explore our nature trails, take a hayride, and so much more. Our facility provides a high ropes course and group initiatives that foster excellent team building. Add our superior food services and distinguished lodging in our cabins and suites to create an all-inclusive event. Our exceptional staff is here to serve you from mid-August through early June. Our summer camps are offered in June and July. Our Mission The mission of the Clemson University Outdoor Lab is to provide superior customer service by creating social, recreational and educational opportunities for the university community and our guests. Our Vision To be an exceptional camp and retreat center with a personal touch. Our Core Values Our core values at the Clemson Outdoor Lab Retreat Center include customer-driven service, integrity, honesty, sincerity, stewardship and making a positive difference in the lives of others. Our People Leslie Conrad Title: Director Phone: 864-656-9538 Email: conrad@clemson.edu About: Leslie directs all areas of the Outdoor Lab from conference and retreat center to summer camps and everything in between. She desires to provide all guests of the Outdoor Lab with wonderful memories of their time spent here. Janay Whitesel Title: Reservations Coordinator Phone: 864-656-9540 Email: jkw@clemson.edu About: Janay organizes reservations for all events and lodging at the Retreat Center at the Lab, and is also the Registrar for Camp Lions Den and Camp Odyssey. From New York, she traded the cold for the South and has spent most of her life in SC. Amanda Whitman Title: Business Manager Phone: 864-656-9541 Email: awhitma@clemson.edu About: Amanda handles all financials and HR items at the Outdoor Lab. She would much rather be outside than inside, especially if she can find a place to hang her hammock and read. Kevin Fowler Title: Trades Specialist Phone: 864-656-9545 Email: kf@clemson.edu About: As a Trades Specialist, Kevin is quite literally the "jack of all trades," dealing with much of the preparation, cleanup, and maintenance that the Lab requires. David Milner Title: Trades Specialist Phone: 864-656-9545 Email: dmilner@clemson.edu About: At the Lab, David is part of the Properties and Facilities team; he takes care of all of the maintenance, landscaping, and cleaning needs of the grounds, and his favorite spot at the Lab is Beaver Dam Trail. Norman McGee Title: Assistant Academic Program Director Phone: 864-646-7502 Email: mcgeen@clemson.edu About: Norman is the Program Advisor and Special Programs director. He enjoys spending time outdoors whenever he has the chance. Katie & Matt Dobson Title: Camp Sunshine Weekend Directors Phone: 864-646-7502 About: Katie & Matt have been involved in the Outdoor Lab camps for many years, meeting each other here! They plan & lead our weekend camps and also help in many other ways. They have two daughters, Lilly & Rowan, who are growing up to be great camp helpers, too! Contact, Reservations & Rates For all inquiries about the Outdoor Lab services and reservation information, please contact us in any of the following ways. Mailing Address Outdoor Lab Clemson University Clemson, SC 29634-0737 (p) (864) 646-7502 (f) (864) 646-3620 Camps & Programs: For more information about any of our camps or programs, please email the Camps & Programs Coordinator. Reservation Services: For more information, availability or to make reservations, please email our Reservations Coordinator or call (864) 646-7502 Facility Rates Equipment/Activities Rates Food Service Options Planning Guide & Terms of Use Lodging Lodging Rates Employment Opportunities Summer Employment with the CUOL Camps! June - July 2022 The Outdoor Lab is home to several residential summer programs. We are accredited by the American Camp Association and are designed to offer campers opportunities they won’t get other places. Our amazing staff care for and lead campers in a variety of activities which include: overnight camping, archery, canoeing, swimming, arts & crafts, drama, sailing, nature, and more! Volunteer and Course Credit Opportunities are available! Contact us for more information, (864) 646-7502 or cuolcamps-L@clemson.edu Camps include: Jaycee Camp Hope (children and adults 7+ who have intellectual or developmental disabilities) Camp Sertoma (children 7-13, who are either underprivileged or have a speech or hearing impairment) Camp Lions Den (children, teens, and young adults who have visual impairments or are blind) Camp Odyssey (children 6-12) Positions Available: Group Counselors Activity Instructors, including: Lifeguards Drama Archery Photography/Videography Canoeing Sailing Gardening Arts & Crafts Nature Apply Now Spring/Fall Employment Throughout the academic year, volunteer and paid positions may be available for the following: Property staff support Food Service Weekend camp staff PRTM 206/207 & PRTM 405 Practicum Opportunities For further information, contact us at cuolcamps-l@clemson.edu or call (864) 646-7502. Camp Alumni We have just completed another amazing summer at CUOL Camps. Several former camp staff came to visit, volunteering their time and energy to help out. We welcome veterans to return and bring their families during the summer. If you want to know more about this opportunity, give us a call or an e-mail. In an effort to keep you updated on camp and each other, please take a minute to let us know what is happening with you! 1) Your Information Full Name: Email Address: Primary Telephone Number: Mailing Address: City | State | Zip: 2) Your Newslegend When were you at camp? (list years, i.e. 1997-98) Tell us what is new with you! Family news, job, special honors/events in your life or use this space to tell us what your time at CUOL Camps has meant to you. Can we post this update on our website? Yes No --- Directions to the Outdoor Lab Physical Address: Outdoor Lab Clemson University 415 Charlie White Trail Pendleton, SC 29670 Google Maps Link From I-85 North or South: Take Exit 19-B (Highway 76/28) towards Clemson. Follow Hwy 76/28 for 7.5 miles. After you pass Tri-County Technical College located on your right, take your first left onto West Queen Street (this is also the turn for the T. Ed Garrison Arena). Follow West Queen Street for 2.5 miles. The Outdoor Lab entrance is on the left. From Highway 123: Turn onto Hwy 76/28 East towards Anderson. Follow Hwy 76/28 for 4 miles. Turn right onto West Queen Street (this is also the turn for the T. Ed Garrison Arena). Follow West Queen Street for 2.5 miles. The Outdoor Lab entrance is on the left. GPS coordinates: N 34 degrees 37.721 minutes W 82 degrees 50.366 minutes Note: GPS systems are unreliable in this area. “ “I have used the outdoor lab many times for everything from an afternoon retreat to an academic conference. It is an amazing place - great facilities, extremely competent and helpful staff, etc. I highly recommend it for all your needs! ” Kelly H. Outdoor Lab Patron Clemson University “ “Awesome Place! We rented the Dove cabin with A/C, 10 beds, one full large bathroom and access to the covered fire pit. You are nestled in the woods so you can hear all the animal sounds and are right on the lake. We had 5 adults & 3 children and it was perfect. I highly recommend this to anyone wanting to rent a cabin in the woods. You don't have to be affiliated with Clemson.” Betty C. Outdoor Lab Patron Read More Outdoor Lab News Clemson Outdoor Lab Copyright © Clemson University Clemson Outdoor Lab | 415 Charlie White Trail, Pendleton, SC 29670 864-646-7502 | Email Us | Camps & Programs Contact intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson