Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date September 2, 2021 2021-09-02 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ In his first “State of the School” address, the dean of the Brown School of Public Health detailed an ambitious plan to learn and grow from the lessons of the COVID-19 pandemic. Photo: David DelPoio PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — At the start of his first “State of the School” address, one year into his tenure as dean of the Brown School of Public Health, Dr. Ashish K. Jha urged the audience to look around and take in the moment — a public health moment if there ever was one. “Here we are: Open tent. Socially distanced. Many of you wearing masks,” Jha said. Multiple effective vaccines against COVID-19 are freely available, yet people are taking health and safety precautions because, he said, the world is still fighting a pandemic that has exposed “weaknesses in our national public health system and the inability of that system to meet the urgent challenges of our time.” Speaking to a Brown public health community of faculty, staff and newly arrived undergraduate and graduate students on Wednesday, Sept. 1, on the University’s Simmons Quad, Jha referred to the pandemic as a lens through which the school and the country as a whole could view lessons learned — and a focal point for charting a path for what needs to happen next. “As a school, we have important and urgent opportunities to confront what COVID has exposed,” Jha said. “Because throughout history, pandemics have opened a window for action that wasn’t open before. How we choose to act is up to us.” Jha detailed how COVID-19 has exposed challenges to community health across the world: systemic racial inequities that resulted in a disproportionate rate of COVID-19 deaths among people of color; failure of public health systems to effectively collect data, perform tests, trace contacts and vaccinate populations; deadly and widespread effects of science denial; and the dangerous efficiency of social media to amplify and disseminate misinformation, with real-world negative health consequences. “We are now at a point — today, in 2021 — where if we wanted, we could prevent nearly every death in the world from COVID,” Jha said. “We have the tools, but not the will. That’s the moment we’re in.” The dean noted that the COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated that the most critical insights into public health issues often come from teams of people willing to work across academic and professional boundaries. For example, he said, building, testing, producing and deploying billions of vaccines in a short time period required unprecedented collaboration among scientists, private industry and government leaders. “So maybe the most salient lesson of this pandemic is also the most obvious: That at the end of the day, the hardest and most important problems are solved when people from different backgrounds, different disciplines and different lived experiences come together and work together,” Jha said. This is what makes Brown University special, he said. “Our structure, our size and, most importantly, our culture actually nurtures and rewards multi-disciplinary collaborations.” Commitment to education, equity and opportunity Jha, who became dean of the School of Public Health in September 2020, detailed the ways in which SPH students, faculty and staff are working to address pressing public health challenges. He also shared new plans for the future. As part an effort to expand the reach of the school’s education and training to ultimately improve global public health, Jha said that SPH would launch an online master of public health program in Fall 2022. “This program will give people around the world access to our school, access to our faculty, and to their knowledge and wisdom,” Jha said. “It is a commitment to education, of course, but it is also a commitment to equity. To expanding opportunity.” As another example of the school’s work to expand diversity among public health professionals, Jha cited the Health Equity Scholars program. Launched in the 2020-21 academic year and about to welcome its first full cohort of 12 scholars, the goal is to prepare MPH students from historically Black colleges and universities to address health disparities and become transformative leaders in public health research and careers. “If you want to address systemic racism as a public health problem, you’ve got to change the face of public health leadership in America,” Jha said. “These scholars represent that change. They are a structural intervention into the heart of America’s public health systems.” Jha noted that expanding representation among scholars from historically underrepresented groups extends to SPH faculty and students, too, as part of the University’s overall Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan. Over the past 12 months, the school grew its ranks of tenure-track faculty from underrepresented groups by 60%, and applications to SPH programs from prospective students of color increased by 150%. “If we are going to solve the big public health problems of our time, it’s very clear we need a diverse team of scholars, teachers and practitioners,” he said. “Of course we have more work to do, but this is progress… Increasingly, we are the becoming the place where people from all walks of life can join us, invest in their public health education and become part of the movement to make health better.” Among other plans for the coming year, Jha said that SPH will launch a pandemic preparedness center; train public health leaders to combat misinformation; bring in faculty to lead work on the intersection of climate and health; make the school a leader in integrating data into key public health decisions; further strengthen the Hassenfeld Institute for Child Health Innovation with the goal of eliminating disparities in health outcomes for children in Rhode Island; and work more intentionally to become a global public health school by launching new programs, recruiting new faculty and building ties with institutions like the World Health Organization and the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. Transforming the field will not be easy, Jha said. “The rules of public health have changed over the past 18 months,” he said. “But if we meet the challenges of this moment, I am 110% confident we are going to find ourselves in a better place… There is no place better prepared to meet this moment than Brown. To prepare for the public health crises we face, and those to come, by preparing our students and by preparing ourselves. This is a moment. But this is our movement.” Tags School of Public Health Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ Bookmark this Page