By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Veterans In this Section Requirements Meet with Us Operation Veteran Promise Notable Veteran Alumni Contact Veterans and Military-Connected Students Syracuse University is consistently top-ranked in the Best Private Colleges for Veterans list. Syracuse University students and staff at the 2019 Student Veterans of America National Conference (Photo Credit: Rob Rivera NPPA) One of the top reasons military-connected students choose Syracuse is academic breadth. You’ll select from among 200 majors and 100 minors within 13 schools and colleges —including online programs —knowing that no matter what school you choose, you’ll find other students with ties to the Armed Forces. Thank you for your service to our nation! Begin your application In addition to our military application, Syracuse University also accepts the Common Application. Using Your Benefits Syracuse University participates in all veterans’ education programs and is a Yellow Ribbon school. There is currently no limit on the number of students eligible to receive the Yellow Ribbon benefit at Syracuse University. Most 100% Yellow Ribbon-eligible veterans are able to complete their education at Syracuse without any out-of-pocket costs for tuition or fees. If you do not have enough remaining eligibility to complete your degree or need additional grant options for your dependents, Syracuse has financial aid available to help you. Veterans eligible for the 100% Yellow Ribbon Program or Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment Benefits also receive an annual $3,000 grant from Syracuse University to apply toward on-campus housing. Veteran and Military Requirements If you are currently serving on active-duty, National Guard, or Reserve, or if you are a veteran of the United States Armed Forces, please see the requirements for veteran and military students. Meet with a Representative Conveniently learn more about Syracuse University. Veteran and military-specific admissions representatives travel to events, bases, and community colleges throughout the country to meet with prospective students. Notable Veteran Alumni Syracuse University has long provided educational opportunities for veterans, not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because of the perspective and experience service members bring to campus. Contact Office of Transfer and Veteran Admissions Office of Admissions 315-443-3611 rwb@syr.edu Featured Stories Leading the Charge An Army ROTC cadet looks to a future of making an impact in the military. Expanding Architectural Possibilities A U.S. Army veteran brings his unique background to architecture to create moving, impactful spaces. Related Pages Office of Veteran and Military Affairs The Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) serves as Syracuse University’s single point of entry for all veteran and military related programs and initiatives. Outcomes and Placement Rates Syracuse prepares students with a distinctive education that can be applied across careers. Additional Veteran and Military Resources The Office of Veteran Success (OVS) is dedicated to providing the services you need as you pursue your education. Videos Gateway for America's Veterans Why is Syracuse the Best Place for Veterans? Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy