By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Visit and Tour FAQ More from this Section Virtual Sample Classes Orange Experience Graduate Events Personal Interviews In Your Area Open Houses Virtual Tour Campus Visits Visit and Tour FAQ Visiting a campus is the best way to get a feel for a school and thousands of prospective students visit Syracuse throughout the year. Make the most of your visit by attending an information program, taking a campus tour, or meeting with someone in your college of interest. What are the deadlines for applying? When is the Office of Admissions open? Can I make an appointment to speak with an admissions representative? Can I stay in a residence hall when I visit campus? Are Open Houses offered during the fall and spring? Will I be able to tour a residence hall? What is included on a campus tour? Where is the Admissions parking lot? Where are some good places to eat? Where can I spend the night when I visit? How close is the airport/train and bus station? Can I talk with current students during my visit? Can I meet with someone regarding my specific academic area of interest? When is the best time to visit campus? What are the deadlines for applying? Link Find all of the application deadlines for individual programs and enrollment options. When is the Office of Admissions open? Link Academic Year Monday–Friday 8:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Summer Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Can I make an appointment to speak with an admissions representative? Link No need to make an appointment. Admissions staff is available to answer your questions during regular business hours in the Office of Admissions. Can I stay in a residence hall when I visit campus? Link You are welcome to tour a residence hall as one of our Orange Preview events. However, overnight programs are not available. Are Open Houses offered during the fall and spring? Link Orange Previews are offered during the fall, winter and spring. If you attend, plan to spend four to five hours on campus exploring all that Syracuse University has to offer. You can meet with admissions representatives, visit your college of interest to hear from faculty and current students, enjoy lunch in one of our food courts or cafes, take a walking tour of campus and visit a residence hall. Register for an Open House. Will I be able to tour a residence hall? Link Yes, residence hall rooms are included as part of the campus tour. What is included on a campus tour? Link Campus tours are led by our U100 student ambassadors and include various stops in academic buildings, along with facts about Syracuse University's history and traditions. Please wear comfortable walking shoes. If anyone in your party needs special transportation or other accommodations, we're happy to help, but please let us know ahead of time. Where is the Admissions parking lot? Link Parking will vary depending on whether you are visiting on a Saturday, weekday or for an Orange Preview. Find out more about where to park when you visit campus. Where are some good places to eat? Link Marshall Street is located just a few steps from campus and provides a variety of quick service options; also, you might enjoy eating in a campus dining hall. Overnight visitors may want to visit Armory Square or other areas downtown for dinner; please see our staff for recommendations. Where can I spend the night when I visit? Link There are a variety of hotels and motels both on campus and nearby. View more information about accommodations. How close is the airport/train and bus station? Link Syracuse is served by most major airlines, Amtrak and Greyhound Bus. Hancock International Airport and the Regional Transportation Center are only a few miles from campus and are served by taxis. Can I talk with current students during my visit? Link Yes, you will have the opportunity to speak with current students during your visit. All campus tours are led by our U100 student ambassadors and you'll often find students participating in many of the information programs. Can I meet with someone regarding my specific academic area of interest? Link Yes, we encourage students to visit their college of interest when visiting Syracuse. Students often make arrangements to meet with a college representative or professor to learn more about their program of interest, tour facilities, or even sit in on a class. Several of our colleges also offer daily information sessions specific to their programs. When you call to register for a campus tour or information program, we will be happy to assist you with making an appointment at one of the individual colleges. You may also contact your college of interest directly to schedule an appointment. When is the best time to visit campus? Link The best time to visit campus is when classes are in session—that way you can see the campus in action. However, we understand that this may not be possible for you and your family. Many students visit during the summer and our office is also open most days during winter break. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy