Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar International Relations Search form SearchSearch International Relations Home About Curriculum News People Advising Courses Research Careers Extracurricular Events Contact International Relations at Penn Welcome to the International Relations Program at the University of Pennsylvania! In the School of Arts and Sciences, the IR major places a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary skills. Its courses are drawn from a variety of departments at Penn. Please browse our website to learn more about the Program. Student Groups The IR community is supported in part by its student groups, the International Relations Undergraduate Student Society (IRUSA) and Epilson Chapter of Sigma Iota Rho, Honor Society for International Studies. Advising Student advising, the IR Program's hallmark, will continue unabated throughout these difficult times. To book a Zoom appointment with an IR advisor, please use our online calendar: https://pennirprogram.timetap.com/ ‹ › News and Announcements Declaring the IR Major January 26, 2022 If you are a sophomore, the deadline to declare a major is February 15, 2022. To declare the IR major, or to have any questions answered, please set up an appointment with either Mark Castillo or Tomoharu Nishino at htps://pennirprogram.timetap.com/ Spring 22 Course List Available October 29, 2021 https://ir.sas.upenn.edu/sites/default/files/22%20Spring%20Course%20List... Fall 21 Course List Available March 22, 2021 IR's approved course list for the fall '21 semester is ready and available for download behind this link: https://upenn.box.com/s/s2h8gyfdxr1i48bxw3e4dc3lqvcbkwdl Spring 21 Course List Available November 16, 2020 Now posted! A list of spring '21 courses that are accepted for the IR major.To see it, click here: https://ir.sas.upenn.edu/advising/course-lists Networking Our alumni group on LinkedIn is comprised of over 900 IR majors. If you are an alum who is interested in joining, please click here to access the group page. The IR Program serves as headquarters for Sigma Iota Rho, Honor Society for International Studies, and is home to the Society's Epsilon Chapter. Click here to access SIR's national site. A significant component of the IR Program's social and intellectual community, all majors are members of the International Relations Undergraduate Student Association upon admittance to the Program. Learn more about the IR Program’s student community by checking out IRUSA’s Facebook page. International Relations 635 Williams Hall 255 S. 36th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305 Phone: 215.898.0452 Archives Donate facebook LinkedIn Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania