Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Discover Baylor University through The College Tour Featured now as part of Season 2 on Amazon Prime! Baylor University is proud to be part of The College Tour — a one-of-a-kind Amazon Prime TV production available on a variety of streaming channels. If you’re not able to make it to campus – or want a second look – get the insider’s view of Baylor from a diverse group of actual students, an inspirational faculty member, and Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Through this virtual tour, we’ll introduce you to life at our nationally ranked Christian research university that is steeped in tradition and filled with opportunities that will lay a foundation for your bright future. Welcome to Baylor University! Watch the Segments Steeped in Tradition From the Baylor Line and Homecoming to Diadeloso and Dr Pepper Hour, Trey will give you an overview of the traditions that make the Baylor experience truly unique. The Classroom and Beyond Hear from Dr. Jonathan Tran, associate professor of religion, about how faculty invest in students at Baylor, creating an academic experience that propels students to excellence. Destination Waco Get an insider’s view of Baylor’s hometown from Lindsey, and learn why Waco is the city we love and one of the top tourist destinations in the country. All About the Bears Go behind-the-scenes of the Bear Habitat with Aidan where Baylor’s live bear mascots — Judge Joy and Judge Lady — greet visitors and students daily. Big Time Athletics Catch a glimpse of what it’s like to cheer on the Bears on a national stage and learn from Adan about how to get involved with club sports on campus. Outdoor Adventures Mike shows you all the ways you can stay active outdoors on campus and in our area. From trail running and hiking, to biking and watersports, there is always something fun to do. Undergraduate Research Learn from McKenna about the academic rigor, faculty mentorship and opportunities for research that are preparing her for the future, and see Baylor’s state-of-the-art science facility. Grounded in Faith Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., shares how a University grounded in its Christian Mission provides world-class academics, big-time sports, a fun and active student life and more. Life as a Student Discover experiences beyond the classroom as Gabby showcases some of the many student organizations and activities that connect you with friends and create a vibrant campus life. Wellbeing Hear from Jack about how Baylor’s care for the whole person — physically, emotionally, and spiritually — supports Baylor students and helps them thrive. Apply Now Go Baylor Visit and Connect About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories