Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply Transfer Congratulations on your admission to SMU! Congratulations on your admission to SMU! Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Welcome to SMU! Along with the faculty and staff, the SMU Admission Office is excited to welcome you to our next class of world changers. Your academic pursuits have led you here, and we can't wait to see what you will accomplish throughout your career on the Hilltop and beyond. Below you will find your next steps as an admitted transfer student. Step 1: Review our New Student Checklist Please download and print our complete New Student Checklist to ensure you are on track. Step 2: Activate your Student Account and Email Activate your my.SMU account using the SMU ID that is emailed typically 2-3 days after receiving your decision. Then set up your SMU email account. Step 3: Review your Transfer Evaluation Report You will receive an email with instructions on how to access your report within my.SMU 3-4 days after your admission decision. Once you have downloaded your Transfer Evaluation Report, please review this video tutorial to understand what is included in your report and how your credits are transferring. Step 4: Financial Aid Your SMU education is an investment that will pay dividends for a lifetime. Partner with us to make it possible. Three out of four undergraduates receive financial aid in the form of a merit-based award, grant, or need-based assistance. Fill out the Application for Financial Aid (FAFSA/CSS Profile) to explore further merit-based opportunities for which you may be eligible. Once completed, check your SMU email address regularly for information about your financial aid package. SMU's financial aid advisors can help you and your family determine the best way to finance your future. Step 5: Visit Campus Visit campus in person at a Transfer Information Session or Virtual Information Session. Information about additional admitted student events will be emailed. Step 6: Accept Your Offer and Reserve your Place To reserve your place at SMU, pay your nonrefundable $650 Orientation, Housing, and Matriculation deposit at smu.edu/deposit. *Students under 20 will need to pay an additional $100 Housing Deposit. (You will need the email address and password you used to view your SMU admission decision.) RESERVE MY PLACE Step 7: Get Connected Join the SMU Transfer 2022 Instagram Group. This closed group will allow you to connect with other newly admitted transfer students. * Please note the first and last name used on your application to SMU will need to be confirmed via Instagram message before you are admitted to the group. You can also follow the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube. Step 8: Submit Statement(s) of Good Standing and Final College Transcript(s) Transfer students need to submit a Statement of Good Standing Form for each college/university they have previously attended. This document needs to be completed by the Dean of Students or other college official who has access to disciplinary and academic records. Please use a separate form for each institution. Step 9: Submit Health History Before registering for classes, all SMU students must complete and submit the Health History Form. Please click here for details and instructions on what is required. Please note that Texas state law requires all students under the age of 22 to have received the meningitis immunization within the preceding five years, or a booster shot is needed. Step 10: Prepare for Orientation Orientation at SMU is a three-step process. Mustang StartUp is our virtual orientation experience that includes our Student Experience Modules, Pre-Advising Canvas Course, and Academic Advising and Registration! Stampede is our extended orientation process that occurs the first few days before the start of the semester, and First Five is our first five weeks of programming to help ensure a smooth transition to SMU. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search