Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Photo: Lee Pellegrini A Gallery-Worthy Gift Peter Lynch ’65 has donated more than $20 million in art from his private collection to the McMullen Museum of Art at BC. By Jack Dunn Summer 2022 print mail The famed investor Peter Lynch has gifted twenty-seven paintings and three drawings, worth in excess of $20 million, to Boston College’s McMullen Museum of Art. The works, from the private collection of Lynch ’65 and his late wife, Carolyn, are by renowned artists including Pablo Picasso, Winslow Homer, John Singer Sargent, Mary Cassatt, and Childe Hassam. “My hope is that this artwork, all of which my wife, Carolyn, and I collected during our fifty years together, will help students to develop a deeper understanding of art and its importance as a form of expression,” said Lynch, the vice chairman of Fidelity Management and Research Company and a BC trustee associate who also received an honorary degree from the University in 1995. “All students definitely can learn from this collection, which includes a diversity of styles of painting, many of which depict the natural beauty of our country from its most celebrated painters.” The donation includes an additional $5 million grant to support the ongoing curation and exhibition of what will be called the Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch Collection, making the total gift one of the largest in University history. “This is a transformational gift,” said Nancy Netzer, the inaugural Robert L. and Judith T. Winston Director of the McMullen Museum, “allowing expansion of our role as a vital educational resource offered free of charge not only to the Boston College community but also to all students and the public, wherever they may be.” Netzer, a BC professor of art history, said the museum would work in partnership with University faculty and students and with scholars from around the world to initiate new research on the artwork and share new insights and contemporary interpretations with its audiences. “Carolyn and Peter Lynch’s generosity,” she said, “and their focused, discerning collecting over many decades have brightened the future of the McMullen Museum’s offerings to New England and beyond.” Artwork Donated by Peter Lynch '65 Martin Johnson Heade Orchid and Hummingbirds Near a Mountain Lake, c. 1875-90 Oil on canvas Pablo Picasso Head Pencil on paper John Singer Sargent Olive Trees, Corfu, 1909 Oil on canvas Albert Bierstadt Near the South Pass of the Rocky Mountains, 1861 Oil on panel Diego Rivera Family, 1934 Ink on Paper Mary Cassatt Mother and Child Watercolor on paper More Stories Making Waves in Cancer Research Swim Across America, a nonprofit founded by a BC alum, is the subject of a documentary series. BC Basketball Gets a New Facility The Hoag Basketball Pavilion will help position the teams for success. A One-Man Cast of Thousands An actor who’s appeared in countless hit movies and TV shows, P.J. Byrne’s star is on the rise. A Social History of BC Clough Millennium Professor Emeritus of History James O’Toole discusses his new book about Boston College. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College