Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Simone Leighty of the University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law Wins the 2020 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition June 8, 2020 Simone Leighty of the University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law Wins the 2020 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition Simone Leighty of the University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law makes her opening statement during the final round of Top Gun XI. WACO - Simone Leighty of the University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law was declared the winner of “Top Gun XI,” Baylor Law’s eleventh anniversary edition of the Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition. The 2020 edition of Top Gun was the first mock trial tournament ever to be held live and completely online, making this already unique tournament unprecedented. Students competed from courtrooms, classrooms, and living rooms across the country via Zoom. Leighty emerged victorious after convincing an all-star panel of experienced trial attorneys and sitting judges that her performance deserved being named “Top Gun” after the intense final round on Sunday, May 31, 2020. After narrowly beating out runner-up Aishling Fitzpatrick of Fordham University’s School of Law, Leighty earned bragging rights as ‘Top Gun’ and took home the grand prize of $10,000, sponsored by long-term Top Gun partner, Naman Howell Smith & Lee PLLC. Honorable J. Rodney Gilstrap, the Chief District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas shares instructions with the judges of the final round of the Top Gun 2020 competition. “When my name was called, I was speechless; It felt as though the last eleven years of competing in Mock Trial had led me to that very moment. I’m humbled and grateful to have earned such a prestigious title,” stated Leighty after hearing she had been named the 2020 Top Gun. She added, “I’m thankful to have worked with an extremely talented and supportive team. I’m honored to be representing McGeorge School of Law in receiving this recognition.” Simone’s victory at Top Gun XI concludes her long career as mock trial advocate and ushers in what will no doubt be wonderful career as a prosecutor. “I can’t thank Baylor enough for the opportunity, Top Gun is the gold standard of mock trial competitions, in real life and over Zoom,” stated Simone’s coach, Jason Schaff of Flesher Schaff & Schroeder, who added, “Simone has been a part of the Pacific McGeorge trial advocacy family since she won our first-year competition. She brought tremendous talent to our school and then polished those skills over the next three years.” Celebrating its eleventh year, Baylor Law’s Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition, by design is already one of the most unique competitions in the country. Unlike traditional mock trial competitions, participants cannot prepare for the case prior to the start of the event. Competitors were given access to the case files a mere 24 hours before the first round of the competition began. With only one day to review the facts of the case and prepare for trial, competitors needed to quickly assimilate depositions, records, photographs, and other materials. Volunteer witnesses were provided, but competitors only had a short period of time to prepare them to take the stand – and it all must happen within the limitations of virtual meeting technology. However, this the 2020 edition of Top Gun was made even more challenging by the technology constraints of a livestreamed, virtual event – something that had never been tried before in any mock trial competition. "We started Top Gun in 2010 to be an exceptional competition that uniquely challenges the most successful mock trial competitors in the country," said Gerald Powell, Master Teacher and The Abner V. McCall Professor of Evidence at Baylor Law. "This year it was especially important to us to offer the country’s best student advocates a chance to compete against the most talented of their peers and learn the most effective way to advocate for their clients in a completely virtual environment – a concept lawyers and courts across the country are also in the process of figuring out," continued Powell. “Trying cases and holding hearings online is something completely new, and we’re all trying to figure out the best ways to advocate for our clients in this new world. So, we knew that students, professors, and even practicing attorneys from across the country would be watching Top Gun this year to see what works and what doesn’t,” said Robert Little, the Director of Advocacy Programs at Baylor Law. “During the tournament and since it concluded, we’ve heard from a lot of people around the country, and the feedback was overwhelmingly positive. So, we think our success has also served to assure the law school advocacy community that online tournaments will work, which is great because it means our students will get chances to learn and compete even if they can’t travel to tournaments in person in the fall,” Little continued. “Of course, we are so grateful to our friends at Naman, Howell Smith & Lee who once again made this competition possible and for awarding the best advocate with a $10,000 prize,” said Little. The presiding judges in the semi-final round of the competition were Magistrate Judge Christine A. Nowak of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas and Judge Tom Nowak, 366th Judicial District Court in Collin County, Texas. The presiding judge in the final round was the Honorable J. Rodney Gilstrap, the Chief District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Watch the Livestream of Each Round Watch the 2020 Introduction Video View the Complete Case File The Case File: A Student Dies on the Field - Who’s to Blame? In this year’s fictitious civil case, Jordan Street, a bereaved father, filed a wrongful death case against soccer coach Reese Taylor in the death of Rory Street, Waco High’s former star forward for the varsity soccer team. Baylor Law's Dean Brad Toben 'testifies' in the final round On September 7, 2018, the soccer team at Waco High ran a full-scale scrimmage under the direction of their coach, Reese Taylor. The team practiced for hours in the triple-digit Texas heat. During the scrimmage, Rory failed to complete passes to other players, receive passes from other players, or be in the proper position on certain plays. In addition, Rory missed a wide-open goal scoring opportunity with an errant shot at goal. As a result, Coach Taylor sent Rory to run “Burma Road.” Running “Burma Road” requires a student to run thirty yards, dribble a ball for another thirty yards, score a goal on an open net, and then “bear crawl” back to the starting point, which entails crawling on all fours for sixty yards. Rory ran “Burma Road” at least twice in the 105-degree heat. Coach Taylor considered Rory’s running of “Burma Road” as “dogging it or goofing off,” so Coach Taylor ordered the entire rest of the team to line up on the field ten yards in front of Rory. Coach Taylor then instructed the players that they were going to do slide tackling drills, where Rory would dribble the ball towards them and each player would have to perform a slide tackle to try to take the ball from Rory. Slide tackles involve a lot of contact and often result in the player that has the ball being taken to the ground. Coach Taylor would blow the whistle, Rory would begin dribbling the ball, and the other player would then run at Rory and slide at his/her legs to try and take the ball. After the fifteenth slide tackle, Rory didn’t get up off of the ground. Instead, he/she lay there and began convulsing. Rory died before any medical personnel were able to arrive on the scene. Upon examination of the deceased’s body, 60 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of cocaine was found in Rory Street’s system. The Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s failure to recognize and remedy the symptoms of heat exhaustion or heat stroke resulted in the death of Rory Street. The Defendant contends that Rory’s cocaine use is what caused Rory’s death. As the host, Baylor Law does not compete. Top Gun XI Champion and Recognized Advocates Champion Simone Leighty, University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law Finalist Aishling Fitzpatrick, Fordham University School of Law Semifinalists Deeksha Kohli, UCLA School of Law Imokhai Okolo, University of Akron School of Law Professionalism Award Winner Eric Love and Second Chair Lauren Doig of Temple University Beasley School of Law, who competed admirably amidst social unrest occurring just outside, and fire alarms blaring inside, their courtroom. Top Gun XI Final Round Jurors (Competition Judges) The “jurors” for each round of Top Gun are practicing trial lawyers and justices. During Top Gun they act as competition judges rating the performance of the competitors on multiple factors. The Jurors for the final round of Top Gun XI were: • Honorable Lora Livingston, Judge of the 261st District Court, Travis County, Tx, which sits in Austin, Texas • Marilyn Brown, Partner, Jackson Walker LLP in Austin, Texas • Mark Mann, Partner, MT2 Law Group (Mann l Tindel l Thompson) in Henderson, Texas • Jordan Mayfield, Partner, Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC in Waco, Texas • Lyn Robbins, Partner, Robbins Travis, PLLC in Southlake, Texas • Jennifer Rustay, former Partner, Hagans, Montgomery, Rustay P.C. in Houston, Texas • Katie Sweeten, Trial Attorney in the Counterterrorism Section of the National Security Division of the Justice Department in Washington, D.C. The Top Gun XI National Mock Trial Competitors American University Washington College of Law – Austin Wallick Campbell University Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law – Kevin Littlejohn II Drexel University Thomas R. Kline School of Law – William Booth Fordham University School of Law – Aishling Fitzpatrick Loyola University Chicago School of Law – Rebecca Garcia LMU Loyola Law School Los Angeles – Jordan Avey Samford University Cumberland School of Law – Dylan Scilabro Stetson University College of Law – Sara Papantonio Syracuse University College of Law – Adam Leydig Temple University Beasley School of Law – Eric Love UCLA School of Law – Deeksha Kohli University of Akron School of Law – Imokhai Okolo University of Denver Sturm College of Law – Phillip Meinkoth University of Michigan Law School – Olivia Dworkin</p> University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law – Simone Leighty University of South Carolina School of Law – Carson Sadro MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor University School of Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Accredited by the American Bar Association and a member of the Association of American Law Schools, Baylor Law has more than 7,600 living alumni and a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. The Law School boasts among its notable alumni two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranks Baylor Law’s trial advocacy program as among the best in the nation at No. 2, while the Law School is ranked in the Top 50 of the 2021 edition of “Best Graduate Schools.” The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the “Best School for Practical Training,” and in the top 15 “Best Law School Facilities” in the country. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award’s inception in 1984. Learn more at baylor.edu/law ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 18,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School