Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Memorandum To: From: CC: Date: Subject: Deans and Administrators Hiring Review Committee Michael Galyean, Provost and Senior Vice President Grace Hernandez, Chief of Staff and Associate Vice President for Administration Noel Sloan, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President for Administration and Finance Lawrence Schovanec President March 27, 2020 Hiring Review Committee for Faculty and Staff Positions In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and implementation of the Emergency Remote Work Status Operational Phases, the university has established a Hiring Review Committee (HRC) to assist the university in managing costs related to the operating budget during this time. This process is effective immediately and will be re-evaluated in August 2020. Exempted from this directive are: Positions in which a bona fide offer has been extended to a candidate as of March 26, 2020. Colleges and departments may move forward with these hires. Positions that have a direct impact on public safety. This is defined to include Commissioned Campus Police Officers and Campus Public Safety Officers. Searches that were already underway prior to going to Phase IV of the Operational Phases and have been certified by the Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Searches where virtual interviews have been scheduled or are currently underway. Graduate teaching and research assistants, Graduate part-time instructors, and undergraduate and graduate student hourly workers. Any faculty hire that would be classified as a diverse hire should also be discussed with the Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. The diversity pool will continue to be available for diverse hires. Included with this Memorandum are FAQs to assist in answering some common questions related to implementing the Hiring Review Committee process. Any waivers from this directive must be obtained on a case-by-case basis. We appreciate your understanding and attention to this matter. Please direct any inquiries to the Hiring Review Committee at hrc@ttu.edu. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What is the process to have a position reviewed by the Hiring Review Committee? Departments should complete a Hiring Review Justification Form and submit to the Hiring Review Committee at hrc@ttu.edu. The HRC will meet on a weekly basis and provide a response to the College/Department with a copy to Human Resources within 24 hours of meeting. If the position is denied and the College or Department disagrees with the decision, a request may be submitted for an online meeting with the HRC. 2. What criteria will be used when considering whether a vacant position should be filled? When considering whether a vacant position should be filled, the following criteria will be used: Is the position critical to the academic mission of the college/department? Does the position contribute directly to the needs of our students? Are the duties associated with the position necessary to keep the essential operations of the university running? Can the duties of this position be assigned to another employee? 3. Will we be required to reduce the number of our positions? Deans and Vice Presidents/Provosts are encouraged to develop a process to evaluate and prioritize vacant positions in their Colleges and divisions before submitting requests to the HRC. It is the intent that the overall recruitment of positions will be reduced. 4. What about positions that are open for recruitment? If an offer was extended prior to March 26, 2020, continue with finalizing the hire. Positions that are posted in Kenexa will be reviewed by the HRC. If the position is approved to proceed, you will be notified of such by the HRC. If the search has not yet started, the Justification Form must be completed and submitted to the HRC. 5. What will happen with the funding on vacant positions? The Budget Office will transfer all institutional funding for current vacant positions and those that become vacant before August 31, 2020, from current FOPs to central FOPs. 6 Can supplemental compensation be paid to individuals who must assume additional duties due to the suspended recruitment process? Supplemental compensation may be paid to individuals who must assume additional duties due to the suspended recruitment process. 7 Can new positions be created? Creation of new positions should be given the same level of scrutiny as the recruitment of a vacant position. If it is determined that the position is critical based on needs of the operation of the College or Department, the request should be submitted to the HRC. 8 Can positions be reclassified? If there is a salary increase associated with a reclassification, it must be submitted to the HRC for review. Otherwise, reclassifications may proceed with approval of a Dean or VP. 9 May salary increases be given to existing staff? Proposed salary increases must be submitted to the HRC for review. Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 29, 2020 11:40 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index