Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena 2019 Sic 'em for Safety September is National Preparedness Month, and it serves as an opportune time to share information regarding safety and security with new and returning students, faculty and staff on campus. Baylor University’s Department of Public Safety launched “Sic ‘em for Safety,” a safety awareness campaign aimed at providing the Baylor community with resources and information related to personal safety. During the month, Baylor DPS will be sharing information about the University’s extensive notification system in the event of an emergency, the role of the global preparedness team to help keep students, faculty and staff safe abroad on mission and educational trips, and Baylor’s robust camera surveillance and technical security system. As part of the safety awareness campaign, Baylor DPS has released an active attack training video. The “Avoid. Deny. Defend.” training video educates students, faculty and staff on how to respond in the event of an active shooter or attack situation. Sic ‘em for Safety will culminate with the annual National Night Out event on Tuesday, Oct. 1, on Fountain Mall on the Baylor campus. 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Stories and Information Baylor’s Department of Public Safety Launches Safety Awareness Campaign for September Baylor University's Department of Public Safety will kick off a monthlong awareness campaign in conjunction with National Preparedness Month, a national campaign to promote family and community disaster and emergency planning now and throughout the year. Active Shooter Training: Introduction Baylor’s Department of Public Safety continually assesses the University’s safety procedures to make sure we are implementing the latest best practices in public safety. One of the department’s more recent initiatives is the production of a training video, which demonstrates how to respond to keep yourself safe in the event of a campus or public active attack. While the content is sensitive, it contains potentially life-saving information should you ever find yourself in an active attack situation. Our prayer is that we should never have to deploy the skills and lessons outlined in the video, but if we must, you want to ensure that you are prepared and confident in your response. President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., and Mark Childers, associate vice president of Public Safety and Security, share the importance of viewing the “Avoid. Deny. Defend.” active attack training video. Avoid. Deny. Defend. Active Attack Training Video The “Avoid. Deny. Defend.” Active Attack Training Video is sensitive in nature. The purpose of the video is not to alarm but to make sure the Baylor community is prepared in the event of an active shooter or active attack situation on campus or any other public place. Behind-the-Scenes: How Baylor's Department of Public Safety Keeps Bears Safe Abroad The world is a place begging to be explored, especially by Baylor University students who complete coursework abroad or impact communities through global missions. At Baylor, there are no shortages of opportunities for students to travel, study and serve abroad on six continents. But how does the University keep students safe while abroad? That’s where Jared Bickenbach, assistant director of emergency management and global preparedness at Baylor, steps in. Baylor Uses Multiple Communications Systems to Alert Campus during Emergencies If a significant emergency or threat occurs on or near campus, Baylor University’s Department of Public Safety and its emergency management team use multi-tiered Baylor Alert systems – from outdoor and indoor loudspeakers to text and email messages – to communicate emergency information and procedures to the campus community. Baylor Connections: Mark G. Childers, Associate Vice President for Public Safety and Security for Baylor University's Department of Public Safety Mark Childers came to Baylor in 2014 after 18 years in the United States Secret Service. In his role as Associate Vice President for Public Safety and Security, he oversees the Baylor Department of Public Safety, comprised of four divisions including the Baylor Police Department. In this Baylor Connections, he examines steps to keep the Baylor community safe and shares more about “Sic ‘em for Safety” month events in September. 'If You See Something, Say Something’: Keeping Baylor’s Campus Safe "If You See Something, Say Something®" campaign was launched in July 2010 by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Justice to encourage citizens to report suspicious activity. Since its launch, Baylor University has adopted the principles of the campaign to create a safer campus for students, staff and faculty. Getting Technical: Baylor’s Department of Public Safety Uses Technology to Enhance Campus Safety Baylor University’s Department of Public Safety has implemented many technical safety enhancements over the past five years that have brought best practices in technical security to campus. One of Baylor DPS’ most visible and impactful technical enhancements has been the camera surveillance system known as the “virtual fence,” which consists of a network of surveillance cameras extending around the perimeter of the Baylor campus. Baylor University Police Department to Host National Night Out Event to Strengthen Bonds within the Campus Community The Baylor University Police Department (BUPD) will host National Night Out, #BUNightOut, for the Baylor residential community at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 1, on Fountain Mall. Dorm Room Burn and ‘Firefighter Challenge’ Added to National Night Out Activities How long does it take for a dorm room to be engulfed in flames? “Minutes,” said Mike Marascia, fire safety & emergency management specialist in Baylor University’s Department of Public Safety. Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena