Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>Support>Canvas Canvas Support Canvas support is available 24/7 by phone, live chat, or email through the Help menu within Canvas after you have logged in. If you are unable to login, please contact the Baylor ITS Help Desk at 254-710-HELP or helpdesk@baylor.edu for assistance. Instructor Guide The Canvas Instructor Guide is the online documentation site for instructors, instructional designers, and TAs. These guides will help you learn the ins and outs of Canvas like a pro. Student Guide The Canvas Student Guide is the online documentation site for students using Canvas. The lessons are continually updated online. Instructor Orientation Video Need to quickly get up and running with Canvas? This video will get you started with an overview of Canvas, how to build and manage a course, and how to create and manage course content. Student Orientation Video Get up and running in under 30 minutes with this short orientation video. Learn how to use Canvas, set your notification preferences, use the Canvas Student app, navigate the dashboard, and access and submit assignments. On-Demand Video Guides View self-paced Video Guides that are designed to familiarize users with the basic need-to-know tools and all of the advanced features of Canvas using short, easy-to-understand, videos. Canvas FAQs This page of Frequently Asked Questions answers many basic queries faculty and students may have about Canvas. More in-depth answers are provided in the Canvas Guides. Suggesting Improvements Have a great idea that would improve the Canvas user experience? Suggesting improvements is the easiest and most effective way to influence how Instructure prioritizes and develops changes to Canvas. Mobile Apps Canvas supports apps for mobile devices using the Android and iOS operating systems for both Students and Teachers. Apps are available to download through the App Store or Google Play Store. LTI Integrations LTI Integrations are plug-ins that allow third-party programs to work directly within Canvas (e.g. Respondus LockDown Browser, Zoom and Box. Canvas Release Notes Canvas release notes maintain a current list of features and other customer-impacting changes that will be included in an upcoming Canvas release. Updates are available on the third Saturday of every month. Canvas Access Guidelines In accordance with Baylor’s Technology Systems Usage Policy, course content and academic records in Canvas are presumed to be private and confidential. These guidelines have been created to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and security of course records in Canvas. Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Publisher Integrations Rich Content Editor Tools Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login