Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics People Research & Innovation News Contact Bioengineering Graduate Program The Clemson University Bioengineering department was established in 1963 – and was among the first in the U.S. to offer a master’s of bioengineering. Clemson Bioengineering is widely recognized for our research expertise in biomaterials and biotechnologies. Our bioengineering programs have produced more than 1,990 alumni. Clemson bioengineering has ongoing clinical partnerships with Prisma Health Systems and The Medical University of South Carolina to support our bioengineering graduate programs and research. We offer bioengineering graduate programs across three campuses, with degree programs designed to prepare graduates for a variety of careers in bioengineering. Master of Science in Bioengineering (M.S.) The Master of Science in Bioengineering (M.S.) is a 30 credit-hour thesis program designed to prepare students to conduct research and/or pursue a doctoral degree in bioengineering. The degree can be completed in as little as 16 months, with at least one semester in residence at Clemson University's main campus. For more information about admissions requirements, curriculum, costs, and graduate student life in bioengineering click here. Master of Science in Medical Device Reprocessing (M.S.) The Master of Science in Medical Device Reprocessing degree is open to graduates holding a bachelor’s degree in STEM disciplines. Designed by industry experts, the yearlong, 30 credit hour program emphasizes optimizing and validating biomedical technologies to support safe reuse of medical devices and healthcare products. Integrating fundamental principles of bioengineering, industrial engineering, medical device design and quality science, the curriculum is eleven graduate-level courses and an immersion/training experience in research or industry. Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) in Biomedical Engineering The Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering (BME) degree is a 30 credit-hour, non-thesis program designed for students who are pursuing a career in the medical technology industry. The degree can be completed in 1-year and is offered across three campus locations in South Carolina – Clemson, Greenville, and Charleston. For more information about admissions requirements, curriculum, and costs for the M.Eng. program click here. Ph.D. in Bioengineering The Ph.D. in Bioengineering program is a 60 credit-hour degree program comprised of a core curriculum and doctoral research. Applicants are encouraged to apply directly from a baccalaureate degree. Applicants who have already completed an M.S. degree may apply up to 24 credit-hours towards the Ph.D. For more information about the research conducted by Clemson bioengineering faculty and graduate students, curriculum, and costs click here. Bioengineering vs. Biomedical Engineering Clemson Bioengineering offers graduate programs in both bioengineering and biomedical engineering. Though these two terms may seem similar – bioengineering and biomedical engineering represent different fields and applications of engineering to biology and medicine. The field of bioengineering applies engineering principles to general biology, medical practices, pharmaceuticals, natural resources, food science, and agriculture. Biomedical engineering can be understood as a specialization of bioengineering and focuses more explicitly on medical and human health applications. For more information about our bioengineering graduate programs or to discuss the differences between our bioengineering and biomedical engineering programs contact us. Academics B.S. Program B.S. to M.S. Program Graduate Program Application Process Research Areas Resources Master of Science in Bioengineering Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering Master of Science in Medical Device Reprocessing Frequently Asked Quesitons Graduate Certificate Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate Research TIGE – The Citadel and Clemson University Pre-College Opportunities Study Abroad Student Departmental Awards Career Resources Departmental Forms Related Links Course Listings BIOE Graduate Handbook Copyright © Clemson University Department of Bioengineering | 301 Rhodes Research Center, Clemson, SC 29634-0905 (864) 656-3051 | Email Us