<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Hunter Goble MBA 2022 Home Region Indianapolis, IN Undergrad Education DePauw University Previous Experience Eli Lilly & Company HBS Activities Health Care Club, VCPE Club, CPD Student Advisors, Activate Program “Once I spent time with the students here, I realized they were regular people with ambitions similar to my own.” Initially, being in business “was not the plan” for Hunter Goble. In high school, Hunter was an avid debater, and thought his calling would be in “law, government, and politics.” Hunter began a pre-law track at DePauw, and successfully interned with Senator Lugar, then the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “It was an incredible experience,” says Hunter. “Being in DC is like being in Hollywood, but with people doing important work shaping the daily life of the American people.” Yet Hunter grew frustrated with his inability to wield influence. “When you’re at the bottom of the totem pole, it’s hard to make a significant impact; there’s a long slog to accumulate influence. Meanwhile, you’re not getting paid, and future compensation is not very attractive. That’s when I started thinking about business. The private sector would mean an opportunity to learn more transferable skills, gain more upward mobility, and have more organizational impact.” After an internship with Eli Lilly, Hunter joined the company upon graduation. “I got hired into the marketing rotational program: two six-month rotations, one for a U.S. function, the other for a global function. I loved the company – they’re a mission-driven organization with work that’s easy for me to be passionate about.” “Activating” entrepreneurial ambitions With a liberal arts degree under his belt, Hunter turned to the MBA “because I needed technical business skills to move forward.” Drawn by HBS’ reputation, he visited three times. “Once I spent time with the students here, I realized that they weren’t as different from me as I thought; they were regular people with ambitions similar to my own. I was also attracted to a bigger school. I had never lived outside Indiana before, and I was ready for a more diverse set of experiences and influences.” With a long-term goal to become an executive in a life sciences company, Hunter is already beginning to realize his ambitions on campus through his involvement in Activate, a joint Harvard/MIT life sciences incubator that connects MBA students with scientists in Harvard and MIT’s ecosystem. Through a self-matching process that Hunter describes as “speed dating,” he found two scientists from Boston’s Children’s Hospital developing “a novel drug delivery platform that increases the absorption of biologic therapies. They liked my commercial experience at Eli Lilly, and I liked that I could understand what they were doing! I know there will be a market for what they’re trying to do.” Hunter will intern at Huron, a life sciences strategy practice based in New York City. But he plans on continuing what he started with his Activate colleagues. “I am in the process of founding a company, including building the business strategy, articulating a development plan and courting investors,” Hunter says. “I’ll continue this work part time (as all of us are) over the summer, answering questions that require funding and a strong business foundation.” Home Region Indianapolis, IN Undergrad Education DePauw University Previous Experience Eli Lilly & Company HBS Activities Health Care Club, VCPE Club, CPD Student Advisors, Activate Program ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College