Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Student Resources Student Life Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni News and Events Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Tuition & Aid Cost All tuition and financial aid for Dual Degree students will be figured at Brown rates for the duration of the program, and students enrolled in the program must pay no fewer than ten semesters of Brown tuition. If a student leaves the program and continues at Brown, Brown rates will apply; if a student leaves the program and continues at RISD, RISD rates will apply. All payments and financial aid inquiries should be directed to Brown. Financial Aid US Citizens and Permanent Residents Brown has a need-blind admission policy for all US citizens and permanent residents. This policy also applies to first-year, first-time undocumented and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) students. Need-blind admission simply means that your ability to pay for your education will not be a factor in the admission decision. International Applicants International applicants are admitted to Brown on a need-aware basis. Applicants must apply for and receive scholarship at the time of admission to be considered for financial aid at any point during their 5 years as a Dual Degree student. Additional information on this policy can be found on Brown's First Year Applicants website. International applicants who apply for, and receive, University Scholarship at the time of admission will continue to have 100% of their demonstrated need met. The Application Process Applicants to the Dual Degree program must submit financial aid applications to both Brown and RISD, and follow the guidelines provided on each institution’s website. Given that students will be initially admitted through procedures in place at both institutions, financial aid eligibility will be determined with respect to formulae operating at both. Should a student be rejected as a Dual Degree student, or choose to matriculate at only one of the two institutions, he or she will receive the financial aid package offered by that institution. Financial aid for students admitted into the Dual Degree program will be calculated according to the Brown formula. Financial aid is renewable for all five undergraduate years, assuming eligibility continues. Students must reapply each year for financial aid. Renewal forms and procedures are distributed at the start of the spring term. Need-Based Financial Aid Financial aid at Brown is a partnership that draws on the combined resources of the student, his or her family, federal and state governments, and the University. Brown believes that the primary responsibility to pay for college lies, to the extent possible, with the family. Eligibility for aid from the University, therefore, is based on demonstrated financial need. Brown, as a member of the Ivy League, does not offer aid based on academic achievement, athletic ability, or any other form of merit. Demonstrated financial need is determined based on two primary factors: the Cost of Attendance and the Family Contribution. The Cost of Attendance is a combination of direct charges (tuition, fees, room & board), and indirect expenses (books, supplies, and personal expenses). The Family Contribution is determined through an analysis of the information provided on the family’s financial aid application. Demonstrated financial need is calculated by subtracting the Family Contribution from the overall Cost of Attendance. For more information, visit the Financial Aid Basics section of Brown's Financial Aid website. The Brown Promise Brown does not package loans up-front in its financial aid awards. Through an initiative called The Brown Promise, the University has replaced all packaged loans in all financial aid packages for undergraduates. Initial annual financial aid package include only scholarships that do not have to be repaid and a standard on-campus work component. Book / Course Materials Support Program (BCMS) Eligibility is based on a student's financial need, as determined by Brown University. Notification of BCMS eligibility will be available in the student's financial aid award letter. Students can also contact the Office of Financial Aid directly for eligibility questions. For eligible students, the Book/Course Materials Support Program will cover the cost of required textbooks and course materials for Brown courses at the Campus Bookstore. For RISD courses, students will receive a debit card to assist with purchasing materials outside of the Campus Bookstore. Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit RISD Admissions Brown Admissions Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top