Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton undergraduate Jazz Chang dies Jamie Saxon, Office of Communications May 17, 2022, 2:23 p.m. Jazz Chang, 21, a member of the Class of 2023, died on Friday, May 13, in Princeton. Chang was from Somerset, New Jersey, and attended Bishop George Ahr High School (now known as St. Thomas Aquinas High School) in Edison, New Jersey. At Princeton, Chang was a computer science concentrator. An engaged member of the University community, Chang participated in the Conversation Partner Program with international graduate students, was an undergraduate fellow with the James Madison Program, and tutored the course “Computer Science: An Interdisciplinary Approach.” Chang also enjoyed running, Brazilian jiu jitsu and Ultimate Frisbee. Surviving family members include parents Mai Lin and Stephen Chang and brothers Jonathan Chang and Justin Lin. The University has extended condolences to the family, and on Saturday, May 14, hosted an opportunity for the University community to gather and reflect via Zoom. A funeral service will be held at 2 p.m. Thursday, May 19, at the Princeton University Chapel and is warmly open to all. It will be livestreamed on the Office of Religious Life YouTube channel. Gifts in Chang's memory may be made by check payable to the “Trustees of Princeton University,” with a note in the memo line “Jazz Chang ’23 Memorial Fund.” Mail to Princeton University Alumni and Donor Records, Helen Hardy, P.O. Box 5357, Princeton, NJ 08543-5357. Resources and support are available to all University students. Students can contact campus Counseling and Psychological Services at 609-258-3141, the Office of Religious Life and residential college staff. Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice