HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Well-being CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Well-being According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), “wellness is being in good physical and mental health. Because mental health and physical health are linked, problems in one area can impact the other.” For this reason, it’s important to take care of both your mental and physical health. Find balance – The Eight Dimensions of Wellness Did you know that there are Eight Dimensions of Wellness? Listed below are all eight and ways you can be well on Clemson’s campus! Keep these eight dimensions of wellness in mind as you make everyday choices, and try to improve any that you may be lacking or weak in. Find balance in your life! Emotional Wellness Emotional Wellness: having a positive attitude, high self-esteem, a strong sense of self and the ability to recognize and share a wide range of feelings with others in a constructive way. Maintain a positive outlook. Build a strong support system. Check out the TAO program through CAPS: Therapy Assistance Online, or TAO, includes over 150 brief, effective, educational sessions covering over 50 common topics and skills related to mental health, wellness and substance use issues. TAO includes interactive sessions, mindfulness exercises and practice tools all aimed at helping you achieve your goals. Environmental Wellness Environmental Wellness: being aware of the interactions between the environment, community and ourselves. Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. Take a “leave no trace” hike. Financial Wellness Financial Wellness: understanding the importance of sustaining ourselves financially for the short and long term. Use a money management app. Plan your weekly expenses. Happy spending – How to budget for a better you Breaking budget?: 6 steps to smart spending Intellectual Wellness Intellectual Wellness: being open to new ideas, thinking critically and seeking out new challenges. Join a Creative Inquiry team. Create a study group. Visit the Academic Sucess Center. Occupational Wellness Occupational Wellness: seeking for and having a career that is interesting, enjoyable, and meaningful and contributes to the larger society. Attend the Career Fair. Seek jobs and internships. Physical Wellness Physical Wellness: taking care of your body for optimal health and functioning. Sign up for classes at Fike. Kayak on Lake Hartwell. Social Wellness Social Wellness: the ability to build personal connections with others, deal with conflict and to be a part of a positive social network. Join an organization or club. Volunteer/serve. Building Social Connections Spiritual Wellness Spiritual Wellness: finding meaning in life events, demonstrating individual purpose and having the ability to be compassionate towards others. Attend a yoga session at Fike. Spend time in meditation. On-Campus Resources Academic Success Center Campus Recreation Center for Career and Professional Development Clemson Sustainability Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Student Clubs and Organizations Clemson University Campus Recreation, The Wellness Zone. (n.d.). Retrieved from clemson.edu/campus-life/campus-recreation/fitness/wellness-zone.html. SAMHSA, The Eight Dimensions of Wellness. (2015, July 2). Retrieved from http://www.samhsa.gov/wellness-initiative/eight-dimensions-wellness. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster