Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Students About Us People Research News/Events MS Online Program Learn at your own pace Design your future and accelerate your career with our new online Master's of Science in Automotive Engineering program! Our program blends intense technical study and creation of strong engineering science-based skills into a world-class curriculum that was developed with input from global industry leaders so you can gain the skills and experience employers want. With the new opportunity of completing the MS degree online, the options for advancement are now open to even more prospective students interested in furthering their education! Earn the same degree as the in-person program while taking fully online courses! The asynchronous delivery of content means no geographic restrictions, and you can take the classes from anywhere with an internet connection. Most importantly, you can earn your degree without quitting your job and pausing your career! COURSES OFFERED Curriculum Structure: External Internship Thesis Option Core Courses AUE 8700 Automotive Business Concepts AUE 8810 Automotive Systems Technical Electives 9 Technical Electives 7 Technical Electives Internship OR Thesis External Internship (2 semesters of INT 8010, zero credits) Write and defend MS Thesis (minimum 6 credits of AUE 8910) Minimum Total Credits to MS Degree 33 33 *The Deep Orange program is restricted to in-person MS students only. The external internships requirement can be waived if the student is currently employed. For additional information related to TOEFL or IELTS, please consult the Graduate School Website. How to Apply: Applications for Fall 2022 are now being accepted. The priority deadline is January 15, 2022. The overall deadline for Fall 2022 admission is April 30, 2022. Application requirements will be two letters of recommendation, unofficial transcripts, IELTS or TOEFL scores for international students, GRE test scores* and a resume. APPLY NOW Candidates are strongly encouraged to have at least one of their references or letter writers be a supervisor or employer, if previously or currently employed. GRE requirements can be waived for those with at least two years of work experience or have extenuating circumstances preventing them from taking the test. *We have currently waived the GRE for Fall 2022. Academic Programs M.S. Curriculum Ph.D. Curriculum Certificate Program Course Descriptions MS Online Contact Us Copyright © Clemson University Department of Automotive Engineering | 4 Research Drive, Greenville, S.C. 29607 (864) 283-7220 | Email Us