Powercat pause chevron double-chevron play chat-purple briefcase-purple home laptop-purple computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Graduate School Search Search Your success story begins here Your success story begins here Apply Now Request Info Apply Now Request Info Choose From 165+ Programs Which program type interests you?Graduate certificateMaster's degreeDoctoral degreeSelect Explore All Programs Explore K-State Campus Tours Support success Give to Graduate Education Make progress Student Forms Get ready Graduation and Commencement Find your niche Graduate study gives you the opportunity to explore questions or issues important to you Connect with us! As you consider K-State for graduate studies, there are a variety of ways for you to connect with Graduate School leadership and staff, as well as with graduate programs and current graduate students. Learn more https://www.k-state.edu/grad/admissions/explore/connect.html Y purple medium-basic Learn more 70+ programs online 1,000+ graduate degrees awarded each year 97% job placement for master's graduates Professional development To help students build skills and enhance their resumes, the Graduate School hosts a variety of workshops and forums for professional development. Learn more Ask an ambassador We understand prospective students have a lot of questions about where they may pursue an advanced degree, and they might not always want to ask a recruiter. That's why our ambassador program helps connect prospective students with current students. Get the perspective of someone who's currently in Graduate School and find out more about what life at K-State is really like. Meet our ambassadors /grad/admissions/ambassadors/index.html Y purple medium-basic Meet our ambassadors Support the Graduate School Alumni and community members have the opportunity to help transform graduate education and research at Kansas State University. Your commitment and support are essential to enhancing the scholarly experiences for our graduate students. We hope you will consider supporting these efforts by contributing to scholarship, fellowship, and professional development programs. Make a contribution /grad/about/support/index.html Y purple medium-basic Make a contribution COVID-19 InformationStay up-to-date on K-State's response to the COVID-19 pandemic EventsBrowse upcoming events at the Graduate School. NewsRead the latest news from K-State. How to Apply Request Info Visit Graduate School 113-119 Eisenhower Hall 1013 Mid-Campus Dr., Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6191 | 800-651-1816 | 785-532-2983 fax | grad@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 3/1/22