Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Graduate Certificate Learn the documentary practices, ethnographic methods and visual studies used to examine people and culture with the Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Graduate Certificate in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Understand the diverse media tools used in film, and incorporate cross-cultural research, cultural aesthetics and research ethics in your work. This 12-credit graduate certificate is designed for Temple students who are passionately curious about the world around them and want to explore, understand and incorporate its diversity into their artistic and scholarly projects. You’ll study new media in documentary contexts, such as mobile media; the political landscapes that shape how images are made, distributed and used worldwide; the relationships between artistic, humanistic and scientific visual research methods; and the use of visual media in indigenous, diaspora and non-Western communities. You’ll take courses in the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts, the College of Liberal Arts, and the Klein College of Media and Communication, bridging arts, humanities and social sciences. You’ll also work closely with world-class faculty to both understand and interact with the world around you, developing theoretical and applicable skills and knowledge relevant for a wide array of career tracks. This graduate certificate is only open to students enrolled in the MFA and PhD programs at Temple. Students complete the coursework on a part-time basis over three years. Classes & Curriculum To earn the certificate, students must complete the following required and elective courses. Advanced Documentary/Fiction Workshop Anthropology of Mass Media Approaches in the Anthropology of Visual Communication Documentary Arts and Visual Research Fieldwork in Ethnography History of Photography Videography Learn more about the course requirements for the certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Anthropology PhD* Photography MFA** Related Graduate Certificates Arts in Community Graduate Certificate** *College of Liberal Arts **Tyler School of Art Careers With a certificate in Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research comes great opportunity to pursue careers in film and media. Some of the careers available to students who earn this certificate include camera operator, director of photography, documentary sound designer, ethnographic research interviewer, film researcher, producer and writer. Career Services Temple University’s location in Philadelphia provides students with affordable access to a vibrant and active arts, film production and media scene, and it is in close proximity to New York City. Philadelphia has 19 TV stations and more than 60 movie houses. In addition, the city hosts multiple film festivals, and several feature films are shot here. You will find multiple institutions offering opportunities or assistance in showcasing your work or advancing your career, including Greater Philadelphia Cultural Alliance Job Bank, Greater Philadelphia Film Office, International House, Pennsylvania Film Office, Philadelphia Film Society, Philadelphia Independent Film & Video Association, and Scribe Video Center. Learn more about Philadelphia’s active film and media scene. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Roderick Coover, professor in the Film and Media Arts Department, is the advisor and director of the Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-3859 Email: rcoover@temple.edu Program Contact Roderick Coover, professor in the Film and Media Arts Department, is the program contact for the Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-3859 Email: rcoover@temple.edu Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-DAER-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info