Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Office of Research Strategy and Development Providing catalytic & strategic support for the Harvard Chan School's research in order to advance its capacity to create a healthier world. Office of Research Strategy and Development Menu Search for: Welcome About Us Mission Staff Weekly Funding Announcements Current Limited Submission Opportunities Understanding Limited Submission Opportunities Archives Internal Funding Dean’s Fund for Scientific Advancement Acceleration Award Activation Award Incubation Award Pedagogy Award Previous DFSA Awardees DFSA Awardee Abstracts Dean’s Emergency Response Fund Previous Awardees of the Dean’s Emergency Research Response Fund Taplin Equipment Grant Fund Faculty Programs HOME Grant Concierge Program COVID-19 Resources Faculty NIH Grant Proposal Writing Course PI Eligibility Policy Accessing Research Resources Catalyst Consultation Services HSPH Open Access Policy NIH Public Access Policy Proposal Support External Review and Editing Services Identify Research Funding Funding Search Engines Post-Doc Tool Kit Proposal Development Timelines Research Computing Core Facilities & Shared Resources Foundation and Industry Sponsors Strategic Initiatives Background & Process Harvard Chan School Diversity Supplement Matching Initiative ORSD’s Proposal Toolkit Contact Us Welcome to the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Office of Research Strategy and Development (ORSD). Our School of Public Health (SPH) has a large and comprehensive research portfolio, spanning the behavioral, population and biological sciences. With research being conducted in nine academic departments and multiple school-wide research centers, our faculty receive funding from a wide range of federal and non-federal sources. The Office of Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) was created to provide catalytic & strategic support for the School’s research by: Supporting researchers in growing and diversifying research funding Increasing competitiveness for extramural research support Developing and implementing research policy to protect and enhance resources Optimizing administrative support for research Catalyzing emerging and inter-departmental research ORSD pursues these strategic aims by coordinating research development resources across the School: Our office is committed to advancing the School’s capacity to create a healthier world through the very best research development supports we can offer. Have a New Research/Project idea or Donor Opportunity? Complete the OER/ORSD Intake Questionnaire here. This website is designed to help you understand how to leverage the system of research development resources that are in place to help you achieve your research goals. We hope that you find it useful and welcome your questions and feedback. Summer Online RDM Mini-Workshops are back! We are gearing up for the 2023 NIH Data Management & Sharing Policy with data experts providing their insights and services to help you write and implement a successful DMP. These are free, open sessions featuring short presentations and provide an opportunity for discussion with the research data community. Join us Wednesdays at 12:00pm throughout the summer. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website