FAQs - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 FAQs FAQs Exposure & Diagnosis Prevention, Cleaning & Testing Vaccine Temporary Remote Work Expand All Collapse All Exposure & Diagnosis FAQs What should I do if I have had close contact with a person who tested positive for COVID-19? Follow the protocol described in Potential Exposure to Coronavirus. What do I do if I have tested positive for COVID-19? Please visit this site and follow the instructions. What do I do if I am diagnosed with Covid-19? If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, do not come to campus, even if you are symptom-free. Follow the guidance in Diagnosis Protocols. Will I be notified if someone close to me has tested positive for COVID-19 and has potentially exposed me to the virus? Once the “Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis” form has been submitted, cases identified as infectious while on campus are routed to UH’s Contact Tracing team. The UH contact tracer will initiate a case investigation by conducting a phone interview in order to identify any UH close contacts. Close contacts include those individuals who have been within 6 feet of an infected person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period during the individual’s infectious period. UH close contacts will be notified of their potential exposure via email as rapidly as possible. I was exposed to someone who has tested positive COVID-19 and have started my self-quarantine. I went to get tested and received a negative test result. May I return to campus? Please follow the instructions on the Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation for when the self-quarantine will end and what is required before the UH community member is allowed to return to work/class/activities on campus. When can I return to campus if I have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been instructed to self-quarantine? See Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation for when the self-quarantine/isolation will end and what is required before the UH community member is allowed to return to work/class/activities on campus. Will I be told the identity of an employee, co-worker or student who is diagnosed with COVID-19? No. UH close contacts that have been identified in the contact tracing investigation will be notified of their potential exposure via email as rapidly as possible; however, the identity of the person diagnosed with COVID-19 will not be disclosed in order to maintain confidentiality. I had COVID-19 and completed isolation. Do I have to quarantine or get tested if I have had close contact with a person that has tested positive for COVID-19 shortly after I completed isolation? Someone who tested positive for COVID-19 with a viral test within the previous 90 days and has subsequently recovered and remains without COVID-19 symptoms does not need to quarantine. However, close contacts with prior COVID-19 infection in the previous 90 days should: Wear a mask indoors in public for 10 days after exposure. Monitor for COVID-19 symptoms until 10 days after you last had close contact with someone with COVID-19 and isolate immediately if symptoms develop. Consult with a healthcare professional for testing recommendations if new symptoms develop. Prevention, Cleaning & Testing FAQs Am I required to wear a face covering on campus? No. Face coverings are no longer required on campus but the University of Houston continues to encourage the wearing of face coverings, especially for individuals who are not fully vaccinated. What are the campus cleaning procedures for UH buildings? UH facilities are maintained using aggressive sanitization and hygiene protocols. This includes increased custodial cleaning and the availability of hand sanitizer dispensers at all entrances, common areas and elevators. The University has increased the frequency that restrooms and common areas are cleaned and disinfected. Students living in on-campus housing are responsible for cleaning their personal living spaces. Faculty, staff and students can also help by cleaning work areas, especially highly touched surfaces and shared equipment. Always use cleaning products as recommended on manufacturer labels, including wearing disposable gloves where directed. UH adheres to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for cleaning and disinfecting when a person diagnosed or tested positive for COVID-19 has been on campus. More information on the university’s cleaning response to a positive case can be found on Cleaning After a Positive Case. What type of COVID-19 test is being administered at UH? Curative Kiosk: The Curative testing kiosk in front of the UH Student Center offers PCR testing. Results are expected within 24-48 hours of the test being received at the lab. UH Student Health Center: The UH Student Health Center offers the SARS CoV-2 RT-PCR test. A sample is gathered by nasal swab. Learn more about getting COVID-19 testing on campus. Does UH require mandatory COVID-19 testing for students or employees? No. UH does not require mandatory testing. Routine COVID-19 testing is encouraged for individuals who are not vaccinated. Vaccine FAQs Is the University offering COVID-19 vaccines? For the latest information on vaccine availability and eligibility, please visit the UH COVID-19 Vaccine page. Does the University require proof of vaccination as a condition of employment or enrollment or can a supervisor request proof of vaccination? No, the vaccine will not be required by the university under any circumstance and will not be expected as part of the process of returning to work, nor will it be a condition of employment. You may be invited to voluntarily share proof of vaccination as part of an incentive program. I lost my vaccine card. How do I get a copy of it? If you lost your vaccine card, your first step is to contact your vaccination provider, such as the pharmacy, hospital or a local government office. The Student Health Center does not maintain a copy of vaccination obtained through the mass vaccination clinics that were held on campus. Use the following contact information if you received your COVID-19 vaccination from one of the mass vaccination clinics and need a copy of your COVID-19 Vaccination Record. WALGREENS (Moderna or Pfizer): Contact your local area Walgreens Pharmacy or call 1-800-WALGREENS (1-800-925-4733). HEB (Johnson & Johnson): Contact your local area HEB Pharmacy or call 1-800-811-8620. MEMORIAL HERMANN (Pfizer): Contact Memorial Hermann at 833-772-2864. Can the University recommend the COVID-19 vaccine? Yes, the university can and does recommend and encourage individuals to strongly consider getting the vaccine. Will I know if my co-workers or students are vaccinated? Can I or should I ask? You will only know if they tell you directly. You should not ask for personal health information from co-workers or students, nor should you share another person’s health information or vaccination status, even if it was voluntarily disclosed to you. If I get the COVID-19 vaccine, do I need to be tested or quarantine if I am exposed to someone with COVID-19? If you are NOT up to date with COVID-19 vaccination and you have remained asymptomatic since the current COVID-19 exposure you do not need to quarantine. However, in such an event, CDC guidance recommends that you: Wear a mask around others for 10 days. Test on day 5, if possible. If you develop symptoms get a test and stay home. Can I require (or invite) only vaccinated individuals to attend in-person meetings? No, UH employees cannot limit in-person meetings with colleagues, students, etc. to those who are vaccinated, and you should not ask for personal health information from co-workers or students. Can I get time off work to get the COVID-19 vaccine? UH employees should use sick leave for time off from work to get the vaccine as well as if you do not feel well enough to return to work after receiving the vaccine or if you experience symptoms of COVID-19. Employee Workplace & Sick Leave FAQs These FAQs apply to University of Houston faculty and staff employees (employees) who are temporarily unable to be in the workplace due solely to a COVID-19 related reason. What is the UH policy on temporary remote work when an employee is unable to be in the workplace due to quarantine requirements or illness related to COVID-19? As of August 2, 2021, all University employees are expected to be fully on campus unless they have received a workplace accommodation approved by the Office of Equal Opportunity Services (EOS), they have been diagnosed with COVID-19, or are required to quarantine because of a potential COVID-19 exposure. Our guiding principles are the values and core mission of the University, including the goals of our strategic plan. Our core mission is to transform lives, and we do so by providing an immersive learning experience to students. Many core positions within the University necessitate a return to campus to facilitate that invaluable immersive environment. Nonetheless, temporary remote work may be available depending on your job function. For information regarding staff temporary remote work guidelines due to a solely COVID-19 related reason, visit the UH Human Resources website. What if I’m too afraid to come to work when required by my supervisor? It is normal for employees to feel a little nervous or anxious about returning to the workplace. However, the presence and contributions of employees are critical to the University’s mission and regular business operations must resume. Employees should ensure that they are informed of and familiar with University’s COVID-19 Protocols, as well as the safety precautions implemented in their specific work area and adhere to those protocols and precautions. I am not feeling well and might be sick, but I do not know if I have COVID-19, can I work from home? No. If you are not well enough to come to work or are exhibiting symptoms, then you should take Sick Leave. If I need to stay at home due to a potential exposure to COVID-19, do I need to take sick/vacation leave or can I work from home? Employees who need to stay home due to a potential exposure may take sick leave or contact their supervisors to request temporary remote work. If an employee is not sick or exhibiting symptoms but is required to quarantine under the University’s COVID-19 Protocol, the employee, with written supervisor approval, may work from home (generally for a period up to 5 days). You and your supervisor should consider the nature of your work based on your unit’s mission and related work activities to determine if temporary remote work is appropriate during the period of your quarantine per the University’s Completion of Self-Quarantine and Isolation Protocol. At the end of your quarantine period, you must submit a request to return to campus form in compliance with the University’s COVID-19 Protocol. My child’s school is open, but I’m concerned about safety because of COVID-19. Can I use Sick Leave? No. Sick leave is to be used for sickness, injury, pregnancy and confinement, or to care for an immediate family member who is actually ill. However, you can request vacation or other leave. Employees should contact their supervisor and consult the HR page to assess leave options. Will an employee have to take sick/vacation leave in order to stay at home due to pandemic-related events, such as quarantine or caring for a child or family member even when the employee is not sick? Possibly. Employees who must care for an immediate family member due to a COVID-19 related reason, including school or daycare closures, may be allowed to work remotely for the period of the family member’s isolation/quarantine or closure. Employees should contact their supervisor and Human Resources to discuss possible options. You and your supervisor should determine the nature of your work based on your unit’s mission and related work activities in considering if temporary remote work is appropriate. If temporary remote work is a possibility, then the employee should submit a request for remote work. The immediate supervisor must review the request with the department head to determine the employee’s eligibility and evaluate department issues/needs that may be impacted by temporary remote work scheduling. It is within the discretion of the immediate supervisor and next level leader to deny the employee’s remote work request in its entirety. Please note sick leave and other leave options may be available to care for sick family members. Employees should contact their supervisor and Human Resources to discuss possible options. What steps should an employee take to request temporary remote work when they are unable to be in the workplace due to quarantine requirements or illness related to COVID-19? Employees who are not seeking a workplace accommodation through EOS should contact their immediate direct supervisor to request temporary remote work. You and your supervisor should consider the nature of your work based on your unit’s mission and related work activities to determine if temporary remote work is appropriate. For information regarding staff temporary remote work guidelines due to a solely COVID-19 related reason, visit the UH Human Resources website. What factors should a supervisor consider to determine if temporary remote work should be approved? As of August 2, 2021, all University employees are expected to be fully on campus. If the employee needs to stay at home due to a COVID-19 diagnoses or requirement to quarantine and is requesting approval to work remotely, the supervisor should then determine: Whether the employee’s temporary remote working supports and furthers the University’s mission. Whether the position can be appropriately conducted remotely without diminishing the quality of the work or disrupting the productivity of an office. Whether the employee has a demonstrated ability to work remotely with minimal supervision. Whether the employee has a thorough knowledge and understanding of the job tasks and operations for which they are responsible. Whether the employee’s temporary remote working environment is conducive to allowing the employee to fulfill their full-time University job duties and responsibilities while working remotely. What information should/can a supervisor ask of an employee in order to make the decision? If an employee states that they have a medical condition that prevents them from being on campus, then the supervisor should direct them to SAM 02.E.09 - Reasonable Workplace Accommodations for Employees with Disabilities and advise them that they can file a Request for Workplace Accommodation Form with EOS. Once a determination has been reached regarding the request, the Workplace Accommodation Response form will be completed and signed by the requesting employee, the requesting employee’s supervisor, and the ADA Coordinator. If an employee states that they have been diagnosed with COVID-19, then the supervisor should direct them to the UH Reporting Diagnosis Form and instruct them to stay home. If the employee is asymptomatic then the supervisor may ask the employee questions to determine if the temporary remote working environment is appropriate in order to allow the employee to fulfill their full-time University job duties and responsibilities while working remotely. If temporary remote work is not approved, then the employee will be required to take sick leave or other available leave. If an employee states that they have had potential exposure, then the supervisor should direct them to the UH Reporting Potential Exposure Form and instruct them to comply with University’s COVID-19 Protocols. If the asymptomatic employee is required to quarantine, then the employee may request leave, or may request temporary remote work. The supervisor may ask the employee questions to determine if the temporary remote working environment is appropriate given the nature of the work based on your unit’s mission and related work activities. The supervisor may also ask questions to determine if the employee can fulfill their University job duties while working remotely. If temporary remote work is not approved, the employee will be required to take sick leave or other available leave. COVID-19 Report Forms Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies