Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News Columbia Scientists Awarded $3.97M to Study Link Between Alzheimer’s and Periodontitis October 25, 2021 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Panos N. Papapanou, DDS, PhD A new research grant from the National Institute of Aging/National Institutes of Health, titled “A Longitudinal Study of Periodontal Infections and Alzheimer’s Disease: The WHICAP Ancillary Study of Oral Health,” was awarded to researchers from Columbia University. The five-year, $3.97 million grant is jointly led by James M. Noble, MD, MS, an associate professor and neurologist at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, and Panos N. Papapanou, DDS, PhD, professor of dental medicine, chair of the Section of Oral, Diagnostic and Rehabilitation Sciences, and director of the Division of Periodontics at the College of Dental Medicine. James M. Noble, MD, MS The upcoming work builds upon an earlier project funded by the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, led by the same principal investigators, that studied participants from the Washington Heights-Inwood Columbia Aging Project (WHICAP). WHICAP, now in its fourth decade, is led by Richard Mayeux, MD, MSc, chair of Columbia’s Department of Neurology. It is a longitudinal study of cognitive aging that has serially assessed more than 5,000 people with respect to medical, social, and health behavior histories, medical exams, neuropsychological testing, and multi-modal biomarkers (including MRIs and plasma indicators of Alzheimer’s disease). In an ancillary oral health study from 2013 to 2016 spearheaded by Noble and Papapanou, researchers conducted whole-mouth clinical exams, assessed periodontal bacterial plaques using next-generation sequencing, and determined the level of serum antibodies to oral bacteria for 1,130 WHICAP participants. In the newly funded project, the investigators will invite back the oral health study participants for a follow-up examination, reassess their oral status and levels of oral bacteria, and determine the association between periodontitis severity and progression, biomarkers of systemic inflammation and cognitive decline, and incidence of dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. “It is one of these precious opportunities one can have as faculty member at CDM,” said Papapanou, “to be able to collaborate with an interdisciplinary team of accomplished scientists across our medical center to tackle an extremely interesting research question: whether periodontal infection/inflammation is etiologically associated with cognitive decline and Alzheimer’s disease.” The team of investigators involved in this project also includes Philip De Jager, MD, PhD, the Weil-Granat Professor of Neurology; Anne-Catrin Uhlemann, MD, associate professor of medicine; Adam Brickman, PhD, professor of neuropsychology; Yian Gu, MD, PhD, MS, assistant professor of neurological sciences, and Bin Cheng, PhD, professor of biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center. Related Information Meet Our Team Panos N. Papapanou, DDS Chair, Section of Oral, Diagnostic and Rehabilitation Sciences Director, Division of Periodontics Columbia University College of Dental Medicine Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top