The Ohio State University Give to Ohio State Give today Contact us | View My Account Search for a page and/or fund Go! Home Why give How to give Give online Find your fund online now! Give by mail Prefer to give by sending a check? Give by phone Please call us at 1-614-292-2141 Ways to give Matching gifts Ohio State crowdfunding Personal fundraising Estate and Gift planning Endowments Faculty and staff giving Overview We Inspire FAQs Foundation Relations Support your passion Animals Arts Athletics Community Environment Faculty and Staff Global Initiatives Health and Medicine Students University Priorities Support a college or campus Colleges College of Arts & Sciences Fisher College of Business College of Dentistry College of Education and Human Ecology College of Engineering College of Food, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences John Glenn College of Public Affairs Graduate School Moritz College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Optometry College of Pharmacy College of Public Health College of Social Work College of Veterinary Medicine Campuses Agricultural Technical Institute Lima Mansfield Marion Newark Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center Donor communities President's Club Mission, Vision and Impact Benefits of Recognition Speaker Series FAQs Year-end Giving Information Contact Us Neil Legacy Society Oval Society Buckeye Club Women & Philanthropy About Renew your membership Events Current Members Grants Apply for a grant Past Recipients Scholarships Celebrating the difference women make together Parents Advancement Council A letter from the Parents Advancement Council co-chairs Current members Parents Fund Foundation Board Directors About leadership Committees Board engagement About the Foundation Foundation Policies Philanthropic Honors Contact us Make a gift Frequency: Monthly One-time Select a gift amount: $75 $100 $250 $500 $1000 $10 $25 $50 $100 $250 Enter custom amount: $ The Ohio State University Foundation Scarlet & Gray Advantage: Debt-Free Degree Ohio State will empower students to control their own financial futures by earning a bachelor’s degree, debt-free. With a matching program like no other, Buckeyes will have an opportunity to create a new pathway for themselves. Learn about this unique scholarship endeavor Monthly giving goes further You can support life-changing scholarships, programs, research, patient care and more all year long. It’s safe, secure, easy — and it does a lot. Plus, once you enroll, you never have to think about it again. Monthly giving provides dependable support with less administrative costs, and a dedicated personal contact is always available to assist you with your questions or updates. So support what you're passionate about at Ohio State all year long, and set up a monthly gift today. Make a monthly gift $10 a month provides 30 meals a year for a student in need. Give Today $50 a month covers the cost of clippers our veterinary students use to prepare shelter animals for surgery. Give Today $100 a month keeps research into advanced cancer treatments moving forward at our Comprehensive Cancer Center. Give Today Minority Scholarships, Recruitment Support and Academic Enrichment (ODI) Provides support for minority students. This fund is housed in the Office of Diversity and Inclusion (ODI). GIVE TODAY The James Fund for Life Supports annual priorities of The James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute. GIVE TODAY Chadwick Arboretum & Learning Gardens Annual Fund Supports the arboretum's mission of providing an extensive and diverse plant collection for education, research, and enjoyment GIVE TODAY The Ohio State University College of Nursing Scholarship Fund Established March 2, 2001, with gifts from the College of Nursing Alumni Society and friends of the College of Nursing; used to provide… GIVE TODAY Support your passion Animals Arts Athletics Community Environment Faculty and Staff Global Initiatives Health and Medicine Students University Priorities Profound differences in the Ohio State community Lichtenstein chairs open doors to modern American art SUPPORT: Arts Strength in numbers The members of Women & Philanthropy pool their resources to create maximum impact in the lives of Ohio State researchers and students. SUPPORT: Community Be a champion for students. When you invest in people, you invest in the belief that together, we can change lives and move communities forward. Learn how Connect with us: Interact with Ohio State on Facebook Interact with Ohio State on Twitter Interact with Ohio State on Instagram Interact with Ohio State on LinkedIn Interact with Ohio State on YouTube Give today Mobile App © 2022 | The Ohio State University Foundation | University Square North | 14 E. 15th Ave. | Columbus, Ohio 43201 | 614-292-2141 Contact: Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, please contact University Advancement | Web Services status | Privacy policy | Nondiscrimination notice