COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! About Us Section Menu Home About Us Consumer Information Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Policies International Students Scholarships Types of Aid Overview Welcome to the Wichita State University Office of Financial Aid. Our office provides numerous options for assistance in the form of scholarships, grants, loans and work opportunities to qualified students. Wichita State awards more than $100 million annually in aid to more than 70 percent of the student body. Our team also administers all WSU general scholarships and coordinates the delivery of most academic department and off-campus scholarship funds. Our Mission The mission of Wichita State University’s Office of Financial Aid is to provide access to education through financial aid resources and expertise. Our Vision Investing in today's student to facilitate success in tomorrow's world. Our Core Values In the WSU Office of Financial Aid, we value: Student-focused service Collaboration Accountability Integrity Efficiency Accessibility Our Code of Conduct In compliance with federal law and to promote confidence in the operation of our office, Wichita State University and the Office of Financial Aid have adopted the following principles to provide guidance to officers, employees and agents of the university relative to the administration of financial aid resources. The Office of Financial Aid will adhere to the Student Loan Code of Conduct approved by the Kansas Board of Regents (see Appendix K of the Board of Regents Policy Manual) in October of 2007. The Office of Financial Aid prohibits all individuals who have responsibilities with regard to the administration of financial aid resources from soliciting or accepting any gift, gratuity, favor, discount, entertainment, hospitality, or other items of value from entities involved in making, holding, consolidating or processing student loans. The Office of Financial Aid prohibits all individuals who have responsibilities with regard to the administration of financial aid resources from accepting any fee, payment or other financial benefit as compensation for any type of consulting or other service contract with a lender or on behalf of a lender relating to education loans. The Office of Financial aid will exercise care and due diligence in selecting lenders for a lender list (in the event that a list is created and utilized). The Office of Financial Aid will enter into no revenue-sharing agreement with any lender. The Office of Financial Aid will make available the criteria and process used to select lenders for a lender list (in the event that a lender list is utilized) and will disclose any business relationships with lenders. The Office of Financial Aid will process loans for all lenders of choice, and will advise students and parent borrowers that they have the right and ability to select a lender of their choice independent of any lender list developed and maintained by the Office of Financial Aid. The Office of Financial Aid will not assign a lender to a first-time borrower or delay certification of a loan because of a borrower’s choice of lender (or guarantor). The Office of Financial Aid will provide no funds for private loans, including opportunity pool loan, (in exchange for a specified number of federal loans, specified federal loan volume, or a preferred lender arrangement for federal loans). In order to prevent a potential conflict of interest or the perception of a conflict of interest, the Office of Financial Aid requires all individuals with responsibilities with regard to the administration of financial aid resources to advise supervision about any request for service on an advisory board, commission or group established by a lender, guarantor, or group of lenders or guarantors prior to the acceptance of any such position. The Office of Financial Aid will provide comprehensive financial aid counseling for students, prospective students, families and the community. The Office of Financial Aid will continuously strive to provide the highest quality service to its constituents and it will continuously evaluate its services to students and families. The Office of Financial Aid will also conduct regular reviews and audits to provide assurance as to compliance with this Code of Conduct. The Office of Financial Aid has adopted the NASFAA Statement of Ethical Principles and Code of Conduct. Home Hours & Contact Info Schedule an Appointment Staff Directory Student Employment Survey: How are we doing? Contact Us Office of Financial Aid 203 Jardine Hall 1845 Fairmount St., Box 24 Wichita, KS 67260-0024 316-978-3430 855-978-1787 Fax: 316-978-3396 facebook twitter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©