Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us Recruiters and Corporations Recruiters Hire Our Talent Post A Job Hiring Options Interview With Us Connect With Our Students Attend an Event Host an Event Support Programming Meet Our Talent Accounting Consulting Marketing and Consumer Products Energy Financial Services Technology Supply Chain and Operations All Industries Policies and Guidelines Recruiting Statistics Salary Statistics Student Demographics School Rankings Corporate and Foundation Partners Strategic Partnerships and Engagements The Texas McCombs Difference McCombs Dean's Corporate Advisory Council Corporate and Foundations Relations Office Events Meet Our Team Why McCombs Recruiters and CorporationsMeet Our Team Meet the Team We welcome you to connect with our recruiting and corporate teams to build a strategic partnership focused on recruiting, engagement and/or investment opportunities that align to your corporate goals. Email Us Business Development & Relationship Management Connect with us for initial recruiting discussion, recruiting strategy, and recruiting partnership support. Meet the Team Recruiting Operations Connect with us for posting a job, scheduling interviews, and hosting an information session, office hours, or educational recruiting event. Meet the Team Employer & Alumni Engagement Connect with us for, large networking recruiting events, just-in-time recruiting events, and alumni educational events -I.e., panels, industry educational events. Meet the Team Corporate & Foundation Relations Connect with us for strategic partnership opportunities across McCombs, leverage campus resources, and building an organizational presence at McCombs. Meet the Team Stefani Sereboff, Senior Managing Director, McCombs Employer and Corporate Ecosystem “Our Texas McCombs Employer and Corporate Ecosystem team is here to support all your recruiting and corporate and foundation goals. We take pride in developing strategic partnerships with our employer partners to provide recruiting, engagement, and branding opportunities with our talented students. We are ready to listen to your goals and build a plan together for success. We encourage you to contact us to learn more, as we look forward to partnering with you.” We welcome your partnership and engagement. To contact us to get started, please email us. PLAN YOUR CAMPUS VISIT Directions to Ford Career Center Interview Suites Directions to Ford Career Center Interview Suites The Ford Career Center hosts interviews for our BBA, MPA and MS students and employers. See the tabs titled “Rowling Hall Interview Center” if you’re conducting interviews for MBA students. LOCATION: The Ford Career Center (FCC) is located at 2110 Speedway, inside the main McCombs School of Business building (GSB). Enter the building through the 21st St. entrance near the “family statue” and take the elevator to the 4th floor. The FCC will be directly in front of you when you exit the elevator. McCombs School of Business (CBA/GSB Building): 2110 Speedway Suggested Taxi/Rideshare Drop-off Location: 150 E 21st St. FCC Room Number: GSB 4.114 FCC Front Desk Phone: 512-232-3770 Directions to Rowling Hall Interview Center Directions to Rowling Hall Interview Center The Rowling Hall Interview Center hosts interviews for our MBA students and employers. See the tabs titled “Ford Career Center Interview Suites” if you’re conducting interviews for business undergrads (BBAs) or students from our other master programs (MPA and MS programs). LOCATION: The Rowling Hall Interview Center (RHIC) is located on the 5th floor of Robert B. Rowling Hall (RRH) at the northeast corner of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. and Guadalupe St. To get to the Interview Center from the main entrance of Rowling Hall, you will take the main elevators up to Level 5. The RHIC will be located immediately to your left once exiting the elevators on the 5th floor. Robert B. Rowling Hall: 300 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Suggested Taxi/Rideshare Drop-off Location: 300 W. 20th St. RHIC Room Number: RRH 5.310 RHIC Front Desk Phone: 512-471-9019 Operating Hours: 8:00 a.m. – 5:30 p.m. Parking Options for Ford Career Center Parking Options for Ford Career Center The below campus garages are the ones most conveniently located to McCombs: Brazos Garage (BRG) 201 E. MLK Jr. Blvd. Austin, Texas 78712 Directions to McCombs from Brazos Garage: Follow the pedestrian walkway two blocks north of the BRG, and you’ll find McCombs on the northwest corner of Speedway and 21st Street. Enter the building through the 21st St. entrance near the “family statue.” AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center 1900 University Avenue Austin, Texas 78705 *Self-Park or Valet parking available Directions to McCombs from AT&T Center Garage: Go one block north on University Ave. and take a right on W 21st St. McCombs will be half a block on the left, on the northwest corner of Speedway and 21st St. Enter the building through the 21st St. entrance near the “family statue.” For additional information on planning your visit, please contact Recruiting Operations at 512-232-3770 or email RecruitmentServices@mccombs.utexas.edu. Parking Options for Rowling Hall Parking Options for Rowling Hall The below campus garages are the ones most conveniently located to Rowling Hall: Rowling Hall Parking Garage 300 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd (entrance is off 20th street) Austin, Texas 78712 *Self-Park or Valet parking available Directions to RRH from the Rowling Hall Garage: Take the parking garage elevators to the 1st floor of Rowling Hall. Exit the elevator in Rowling Hall to the left. From there you will take the main elevators or stairs in Rowling Hall (located in the center of the building) to the level corresponding with the first number of your room location. AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center 1900 University Avenue Austin, Texas 78705 *Self-Park or Valet parking available Directions to RRH from AT&T Center Garage: Take the conference side elevator to Level M2, and walk out the back door to your right as you exit the elevator—you will walk straight across a plaza into the front entrance of Rowling Hall. Accommodations Near McCombs / Rowling Hall Accommodations Near McCombs / Rowling Hall AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center 1900 University Avenue (southern edge of The University of Texas at Austin campus) Phone Number: 512-404-1900 The AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center is a four star facility featuring 276 guest rooms and 21 suites onsite. This hotel offers inspiring views of the university's Tower, the State Capitol, and a serene central courtyard. Room technologies and guest amenities make your stay for either business or pleasure equally enjoyable. Online Reservations: To book a room and access the University recruiter preferred rate, enter "McCOMBSC" under the "Rate Access/Corporate Code" section on the Conference Center's site. Blackout dates apply. Dining Options Near McCombs AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center 1900 University Avenue (southern edge of The University of Texas at Austin campus) The Carillon, American Fine Dining, Phone: 512-404-3655, Hours: please check their website, Reservations are recommended. Gabriel's Café, American Casual, Phone: 512-404-3654, Hours: Mon.-Fri., 4pm-11pm; Sat. & Sun., 11am-11pm. One Twenty 5 Café, Coffee, pastries, snacks, Phone: 512-404-3661, Hours: Daily, 6:30am-2pm. Other Accommodations in Austin There are many reasonably priced hotels and motels in Austin. Special UT rates (usually lower than corporate rates) are often available upon request. Reservations are strongly recommended. Accommodation information, as well as information about Austin, may be found through the Austin Convention and Visitors Bureau. Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin