Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Who We Are Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Shaped by centuries of Jesuit education around the globe, our culture embraces the changing times while staying true to core values – engaging your intellect, helping you grow ethically and spiritually, exchanging ideas freely and building a more just world. 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide One of the ways that we embody our Jesuit heritage is by making a home for all faith traditions. Whether you’re religious, nonreligious or searching for a spiritual home, we accompany you on your journey and help you lead a life of deeper meaning, belonging and purpose. Learn About Campus Ministry Play Youtube Video The Jesuit Experience Students often ask about the theology component at Georgetown and what it means to attend a Jesuit university. Ethan (C’21) reflects on how Georgetown’s Jesuit identity has informed his experience on campus. Spirituality at Georgetown 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Life-Changing Service Service and community engagement are a way of life here. Choose among the more than 100 university-sponsored service programs and opportunities and help address some of the most pressing issues facing local, national and international communities. From alternative break programs to a class that works to exonerate the wrongfully accused, you’ll join a united community of people for others. Service Opportunities A Testimonial “When I first started at Georgetown, one of the Jesuit professors came to speak to my class. He said, ‘Here at Georgetown, we don’t teach you what to think, we just teach you how to think.’ To me, this so perfectly sums up my education here on the Hilltop, and it makes me so grateful to be here doing exactly what I am doing right now.” Anna’s Story Building a More Just World Jesuit Values in Action Prison Reform Course Helps Four Convicted of Murder Prove Innocence University Joins Amicus Brief Challenging New Immigration ‘Unlawful Presence’ Policy Georgetown signs onto an amicus brief with 64 other universities and one university system board supporting a legal challenge to a recent immigration policy change on the calculation of “unlawful… Global Health Major Excels In Leadership, Research and the Boxing Ring Hana Burkly (NHS’19, G’20), who runs a student-run, not-for-profit organization that recruits university students to teach English in underserved schools around the world, is also a boxer. The Spirit of Georgetown 1 of 9 Next Slide Prvious Slide 1 of 9 Next Slide Previous Slide The Spirit of Georgetown Cura Personalis Cura personalis encourages care and individualized attention to the needs of each person, distinct respect for his or her circumstances and concerns and an appropriate appreciation for his or her particular gifts and insights. Spirit of Georgetown People for Others Coined by Rev. Pedro Arrupe, S.J., “people for others” challenges the alumni of Jesuit schools and universities to be engaged in the struggle for justice to protect the needs of the most vulnerable. Spirit of Georgetown Community in Diversity As a Catholic and Jesuit university, we welcome and sustain rich diversity among our students, faculty and staff. Spirit of Georgetown Contemplation in Action Contemplation is a critical dimension of the spiritual life, and it is reflected in Georgetown’s commitment to prayer, worship and retreats. Spirit of Georgetown Educating the Whole Person St. Ignatius believed that God could be discovered in every human endeavor, in every facet of learning and experience and in every field of study. Our Values Faith and Justice The Jesuits made a significant institutional commitment to “the service of faith and the promotion of justice,” an obligation to address the social realities of poverty, oppression and injustice. Spirit of Georgetown Interreligious Understanding Reflecting themes from the Second Vatican Council, the 34th General Congregation of the Society of Jesus made a significant commitment to ecumenical and interreligious engagement and understanding. Spirit of Georgetown Academic Excellence Academic excellence describes the great importance that Jesuits have placed on the life of the mind as a means for uncovering truth and discovering meaning. Spirit of Georgetown Ad Majorem Dei Gloriam This motto identifies the religious purpose of all Jesuit endeavors. It is not simply doing good that Jesuits propose, but rather doing what will better or more effectively reveal God’s active presence in our work and in our world. Spirit of Georgetown Previous Slide Next Slide Meet the Jesuits From the beginnings of the Society of Jesus – education, ministry and outreach to the marginalized have been at the core of the Jesuit mission. But who exactly are the Jesuits? How do they fit into the Catholic Church? What is their history? How does their tradition continue on campus today? Find answers to these questions and more. Who are the Jesuits? Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog