Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Service Learning and Volunteerism About Us Student Programs Faculty & Staff Community How to Serve AmeriCorps Volunteer Odyssey Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Service on Saturday Days of Service What is Engaged Scholarship? Contact CSLV Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Center for Service Learning and Volunteerism How to Serve How to Serve **SPECIAL NOTE: Given the unprecedented events in the past few months, we understand that you may want to support your community during this time. Please remember, too, that community partners are facing a great deal of change and uncertainty, and we must be patient and responsive to their needs. Check out the University of Memphis Landing Page on Volunteer Odyssey, as well as the Volunteer Odyssey calendar for weekly updates related to in-person and virtual volunteer opportunities.** Students who volunteer gain valuable skills, make new friends, and are more marketable to employers -- and the UofM has lots of ways for you to volunteer! Whether you’re looking for a onetime event or an ongoing opportunity, you have many options for getting involved on campus and in your community. Follow the steps below to begin finding your perfect volunteer opportunity! Step 1 Join the University of Memphis group on Volunteer Odyssey! Click the following link, which will take you to our landing page: University of Memphis Landing Page Step 2 Then click log-in by using the “Sign in via U. Memphis” feature which allows you to log-in using your Memphis information. You will then be added to the University of Memphis group! Step 3 Narrow your search for volunteer opportunities by navigating the volunteer calendar to search for causes or dates that work with your schedule! You can visit this link for the full calendar of opportunities in the city of Memphis. One-click registration makes it easy to sign-up! Step 4 Go Volunteer! Meet new people, have fun, and make a difference! Step 5 After you volunteer, be sure to rate and reflect on your experience on VolunteerCompass. If you have volunteered with an organization that is not on the VolunteerCompass platform, be sure to manually log your experience by clicking your name in the top right hand corner, and “Add Impact.” Once you arrive to that screen, click “Cant Find It?” and manually enter the information about where you served and what your experience was! Additional Resources More of a visual learner? We've got you covered with some step-by-step one pagers and an instructional video: How to find volunteer opportunities. How to find volunteer opportunities for a small group (fewer than 15 people) How to find volunteer opportunities for a large group (more than 15 people) <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> VolunteerCompass is made possible through funding by The University of Memphis Green Fee Fund and Student Activity Fee. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/19/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.