COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Chemistry, Master's Master'sChemistry All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry The Master of Science (MS) in chemistry from Wichita State will prepare you for career advancement in chemistry-related fields. You'll develop the knowledge and skills needed for success in leadership and management positions—while building a strong research foundation. Learn how Chemistry is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU American Chemical Society (ACS) members whip up ice cream in a flash—with the help of liquid nitrogen. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission into the program requires: A baccalaureate degree in chemistry A minimum GPA of 3.0 (both overall and in chemistry) Two letters of recommendation from individuals familiar with the applicant's academic background A one-page typed statement of goals and research interests Submission of test scores from the general GRE exam For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student researchers turn attention to cancer cells As a chemistry student, you have the opportunity to work with faculty who are on the cutting edge of research. Moriah Beck, assistant professor of chemistry at Wichita State, focuses much of her research on how cancer spreads. In her lab, which includes nine undergraduate and graduate students, she researches the human protein called palladin, a key regulator of our cells' most abundant protein actin. Curriculum The degree typically requires two or three years of advanced study and laboratory research for a total of 30 credit hours, including the presentation of a thesis based on original research. Areas of study include biochemistry and analytical, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry. View the curriculum Careers A master's degree in chemistry from Wichita State opens doors with employers in many fields—from chemical manufacturing and health care to government work and research—and is excellent preparation for a future Ph.D. program. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Biological Sciences (Master's) Earth, Environmental and Physical Sciences (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©