COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. Larisa Genin Section Menu Barton School Home Office of the Dean About the Barton School Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Centers, Institutes and Labs Faculty/Staff Resources Current Student Resources Events Contact Us Directory Faculty In the News Virtual Information Sessions Alumni Council Honor Roll Leadership Team Woolsey Hall The Dean's Honor Roll Honor Roll Spring 2022 Honor Roll Spring 2021 Honor Roll Summer 2021 Dr. Larisa Genin Dean and Professor W. Frank Barton School Of Business (316) 978-3200 larisa.genin@wichita.edu Overview Dr. Larisa V. Genin is the Dean of the W. Frank Barton School of Business and Professor at Wichita State University (WSU). Prior to joining WSU in June 2019, Dr. Genin served as a tenured faculty, Interim Dean, and Associate Dean in the School of Economics and Business Administration at Saint Mary’s College of California responsible for strategic planning, AACSB accreditation, faculty and undergraduate programs. She has over twenty years of combined teaching and administrative experience. During Genin’s tenure as Associate Dean, undergraduate enrollments increased by more than 100% and positive post-graduation outcomes to over 90%; internships pursued doubled; retention and graduation rates increased to over 80%; new academic programs and interdisciplinary concentrations launched; student experience strengthened via the launch of the “Career Gateway” (personal and professional development program to prepare graduates for the pursuit of meaningful career paths). With a student-centered mindset, Dean Genin is committed to supporting faculty, staff, and stakeholders in ways that empower, energize, develop, and advance them. She is excited to be joining the University at such a pivotal time in its history and looks forward to ensuring the construction of a new building (Woolsey Hall) to house the W. Frank Barton School of Business. An active member of the business community in the San Francisco Bay Area (prior to relocating to Wichita, Kansas), she looks forward to forging strategic partnerships and building relationships within her new community. Dr. Genin was selected as 1 of 29 participants to pursue ACE (American Council on Education) one-year fellowship during 2014-2015 academic year (premier professional development program preparing the next generation of higher education leaders). 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©