Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Fall 2021 Important Student Information Simmons About Simmons Fall 2021 Important Student Information 2021 Covid-19 Operations Plan The 2021 Covid-19 Operations Plan for the University has been released. More information is available on the Mustang Strong blog. Fall 2021 Information Starting in summer 2021, a phased re-opening will occur on campus with the goal of students meeting fully in-person starting in the fall. A chart (published April 29, 2021) details this timeline below. Fall 2020 Information Simmons Graduate Students Simmons School Fall 2020 Graduate Student Town Hall - PowerPoint Simmons School Fall 2020 Masters Student Town Hall - Audio Recording Simmons School Fall 2020 Doctoral Student Town Hall - Audio Recording Health and Safety What are the expectations for on-campus attendance? SMU requires all students to complete training on safety and sign a Pledge to keep the SMU community safe. The training addresses health screening, face coverings, and social distancing expectations on campus. If you work in a Lab on campus, please check with your Supervisor for COVID-19 operating procedures. Course Formats What are the options for courses in the fall? SMU courses are being offered in two formats this fall: Virtual / Remote / Online or SMUFlex. Virtual courses are fully online with synchronous and asynchronous learning components. You may be expected to participate online during part of your assigned class time so please check with your instructor. SMUFlex courses are designed to offer flexibility in attending on campus or online. You will be asked to select your preferred mode of attendance by August 7th so instructors can plan for their fall classes and ensure social distancing in the classrooms. All courses will meet online after the Thanksgiving holidays. Attendance Is the attendance policy different for fall SMUFlex courses? No. All students are expected to attend all classes in the SMUFlex mode they select in August (online or on campus). If you are ill and cannot attend class on campus, please notify your instructor as soon as possible via Canvas email communication. You may ask the instructor to attend online while you are waiting to determine if you will need to change your attendance mode longer term due to illness. If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, please notify your instructor and work with them on plans to complete assignments. Longer term, you will need to contact Associate Dean Tony Petrosino to request a change of attendance mode to ensure that we can accommodate all students in the available classrooms and plan for appropriate interactions between students on campus and online. SMUFlex On-Campus Classroom Limits What happens if more students plan to attend on campus than can safely fit in the available classroom? SMU is implementing a Red/Blue option for SMUFlex courses with more students than can fit safely in the classroom. Students will be assigned to a Red or Blue group and attend approximately half of the class sessions on campus and half online, alternating with the other group. SMUFlex students who attend online will follow that mode throughout the semester. SMUFlex Recordings Will SMUFlex courses be recorded? Yes, instructors will record their Zoom sessions and provide links to videos within 24 hours after the end of each class session. Some instructors may choose not to record portions of the class where sensitive or personal topics are discussed, but all tested or graded instruction should be recorded. SMUFlex Exams How will exams, tests and quizzes be handled for SMUFlex courses? All exams and tests will be conducted online for SMUFlex courses. You may be required to install and use Lockdown Browser for exams so please check with your instructor. Grading Policy Is the grading policy the same as last semester? No. SMU is following our standard grading policy for all fall courses. You are expected to participate in all class sessions and submit assignments on time according to the syllabus. Please contact your instructor if you become ill with COVID-19 to work out an adjusted assignment schedule if needed. Testing and Contact Tracing What testing and contact tracing procedures are available at SMU? Testing is available at the SMU Health Center. It is prioritized for people with symptoms and generally available in 24-48 hours. Please contact the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center for details. SMU is implementing Contact Tracing protocols outlined by Johns Hopkins that include tracing for "close contact" defined as being in contact for more than 15 minutes less than 6 feet away from another person. SMU expects people who test positive to remain in isolation for 10 days with online access to your courses. Please follow the SMU Reporting protocol for symptoms, exposure and positive cases. Simmons Undergraduate Students Visit Mustang Strong Student Information to learn about SMU’s innovative approaches to delivering instruction this Fall 2020. Watch President Turner’s and Provost Laboa’s Virtual Town Hall for Parents and Students about Fall 2020 safety, health precautions, and academics. Simmons Telehealth Counseling Services It’s important for all of us in the Simmons community to take care of ourselves during this time, so the School is offering special support resources through its M.S. in Counseling program. Community members can receive free telehealth counseling services via zoom at the Center for Family Counseling by calling 214-768-6789. Students can reach-out to SMU’s Counseling Services for assistance in locating virtual or community-based counseling services. Crisis services for students are available 24/7 by calling 214-768-2277 and selecting the ‘speaking with a crisis counselor option’ for assistance. Additional assistance with referrals or other services for students can be obtained by calling 214-768-2277 and selecting the option to speak with a clinical case manager. About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving UG Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter