Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Ways to give Planned giving Request information Request information Close Menu Home Planned giving Bequest language Gift options Gifts generating income Gifts with immediate impact Gifts for the future Other gift options Henry Suzzallo Society Current Newsletter Past Henry Suzzallo Society Newsletters Virtual Henry Suzzallo Society Reception Planned giving resource library Gift calculator Request information Planned giving staff Office for Planned Giving Phone: 206-685-1001, toll free: 800-284-3679 Email: giftinfo@uw.edu Web: uw.edu/giving/planned-giving With your commitment, your legacy, you create a world of good at the University of Washington. Join other Husky supporters by making a gift to the University of Washington to benefit students, programs and faculty whose passion for achievement never rests. Making a gift to the University of Washington in your will or trust is easier than you may think, and can provide you with benefits including: You can make a meaningful gift to the University. You can support the area(s) you care about most. You can alter your plans at any time during your lifetime. Contact the Office for Planned Giving Please contact me with information about including UW in my estate plan. I have already included the UW in my will or estate plan. If the UW is already in your will or estate plan, please let us know. We would like to be able to express our gratitude. My name is: I can be reached via: Phone Email Spam verification (required) Which of these is a color: hand, yellow, rock? Please leave this field empty. Δ Home Planned giving Bequest language Gift options Gifts generating income Gifts with immediate impact Gifts for the future Other gift options Henry Suzzallo Society Current Newsletter Past Henry Suzzallo Society Newsletters Virtual Henry Suzzallo Society Reception Planned giving resource library Gift calculator Request information Planned giving staff Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA