Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Policies & Training Racial Profiling Statement Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Policies & Training Campus Carry Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Statement In Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Statement on Racial Profiling The University of Houston Police Department supports the 77th Texas Legislature's mandate prohibiting racial profiling in Texas. Our police officers work under a departmental policy that is consistent with all state and federal laws. The policy includes provisions for citizens to contact us if they have a conflict with one of our officers. UHPD realizes that there will be disagreements, from time to time, with individuals that come in contact with our officers. We realize that confusion, different perceptions or possibly the timeliness of information may produce different accounts of the same incident. These disagreements between citizens and officers need to be addressed. We trust that the vast majority of contacts between citizens and officers are conducted in a positive, professional manner. The relationship between the community and our officers is based on confidence and trust. We cannot be effective without both the community and our officers working together to achieve this goal. Citizens feeling that they have a legitimate concern may make a formal complaint to UHPD at any time by contacting any member of this department for information on the complaint process. Additional information about this process may be obtained by calling us at (713) 743-3333 or visit our UHPD complaint process page for more information. We are very proud of the relationship UHPD shares with the community we serve. Our long-standing goal is to provide our citizens with a safe community where all may live, work and study without the fear of crime. Your Role Staying Safe Preventing Crime Community Services Security Escort Crime Prevention Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies