Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search MS Environmental Engineering General Information 30 credit hours of GT coursework are needed to fulfill the GT MS Environmental Engineering (MSENVE) degree requirements, with 18 hours in major required and 12 hours approved electives. More info Curriculum NON-THESIS OPTION Specialization Requirement 18 credits Approved Electives 12 credits Total required credits 30 credits Note: Only the non-thesis option is available at GT-Shenzhen. Please refer to Graduate Handbook for detailed degree requirements. Key Degree Requirements Minimum of 30 semester hours of course work, none of which was used to satisfy requirements for a previous degree, are required. The student’s faculty advisor and the Associate Chair for Graduate Programs must approve the program of study. Certain groups have specific course requirements, so students are advised to speak with their advisor to ensure degree requirements are satisfied. At least 21 of 30 course credit hours must be at 6000 level or higher. Courses at the 1000 or 2000 level cannot be counted toward any graduate degree, and 3000 level courses are allowed only under special circumstances. Other than thesis hours, only three of the 30 hours counted toward the degree may be taken on a Pass/Fail basis, with the approval of the advisor and Associate Chair for Graduate Programs. Courses with grades of “D”, “F”, “U” “V” or “W” may NOT be listed on the final Program of Study. For complete master’s degree program requirements, refer to the Graduate Handbook. GT-Shenzhen MS Environmental Engineering Program Director Academics Diploma Admissions Professional Development Option (PDO) Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology