Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Craig C. Hill Craig C. Hill Craig C. Hill became the 11th dean of Perkins School of Theology on July 1, 2016. A New Testament scholar, Dean Hill previously served on the faculty of Duke Divinity School, where he was executive director of the Doctor of Ministry and Master of Christian Practice programs. He was also a research professor of theological pedagogy. Prior to his tenure at Duke, he held numerous positions over the course of 15 years at Wesley Theological Seminary in Washington, D.C. They included professor of New Testament, executive director of academic outreach, director of the Wesley Ministry Network, co-director of the dual degree program with The American University and director of the Master of Theological Studies degree program. In addition, he holds an extensive list of global academic appointments including visiting professor in Russia and South Korea and served as a visiting fellow at the University of Cambridge and a Henry R. Luce Fellow at Yale Divinity School. Dean Hill was appointed as the first non-Anglican chaplain at Christ Church College, University of Oxford. Additional pastoral experience includes director of Christian Education at First United Methodist Church, Meriden, Conn.; as associate pastor at First United Methodist Church, Peoria, Ill.; and as associate pastor at Woodside United Methodist Church, Springfield, Ill. Dean Hill is the author of numerous scholarly articles. His most recent book, Servant of All: Status, Ambition, and the Way of Jesus, was published in 2016. His previous books include In God’s Time: The Bible and the Future and Hellenists and Hebrews: Reappraising Division within the Earliest Church. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Religion from Illinois Wesleyan University, a Master of Divinity from Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary in Evanston, Ill., and a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Oxford (Christ Church College). Dean Hill and his wife, Robin, are the parents of two adult children: Arthur and Victoria. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"