Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Enrollment Services Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Housing Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Tuition and Fees Course Fees Dining Withdrawal/Cancellation Info GradGuard Tuition Refund Plan Additional Charges Cost Estimate Calculator Payment Due Dates Loans Loans Family Assistance Loan Summer Studies Loan Financial Aid Parent Information Payments Payments Make A Payment (SMUpay) Payment Methods Returned Checks Payment Plan Options FAQs Cost of Attendance Payment Plan Options Refunds FAQs FAQs Videos ☰ Bursar Payments Home Make a Payment with SMUpay Payments Must be Received by the Payment Due Date, in Order to Avoid Late Payment Penalty Fees. SMUpay Options: Payments can be made securely online through your my.SMU Student Dashboard or Authorized Payer account using a variety of options shown below. If you are a parent/guardian who would like to become authorized by your student to make payments on his or her behalf, your student must first set you up as an authorized payer by following the instructions found here. eCheck (Personal Checking or Savings): No service fee is charged for this option. You will need to provide your bank’s routing number and your checking or savings account number. If you have questions regarding the correct numbers to use, please contact your financial institution. Keep in mind that some banks use different routing numbers for ACH transactions and wire transfers. The routing number you need to use for payment through an eCheck is the ACH routing number, which is typically found at the bottom of your check and is the left-most number, followed by your account number, and then by the number of the check. Do NOT use any numbers on your debit card. Credit Card (American Express, Discover, MasterCard and VISA): A non-refundable service fee of 2.75% (will increase to 2.85%, effective June 1, 2022) is added to the total payment as a separate transaction. This is a fee charged to you by our payment processor; SMU does not receive this additional fee. IMPORTANT: VISA may only be used for payments made to the Student Account (Tuition/fees, room/board, parking permit, mandatory health insurance) and payment plans. A different payment profile that does not use VISA can be used for payments made to the Miscellaneous Account. International Wire Payment: SMU has partnered with Flywire and Western Union to provide our international students with easy and secure methods to send international payments through your my.SMU portal or Authorized Payer account. Domestic Wire Payment: Through SMU’s partnership with Western Union, you can make domestic wire payments through your my.SMU portal or Authorized Payer account. IMPORTANT: Make sure to turn off pop-up blocker on your web browser, as not doing so may impede the functionality of SMUpay. SMUpay requires Microsoft Internet Explorer 8 or newer, Mozilla Firefox 17 or newer or Google Chrome 24 or newer with JavaScript, Cookies and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) enabled. Make a Payment: Students Login to my.SMU. Select the Financials tab. Select SMUpay from the drop-down menu. Select the account you are paying on the View & Pay Accounts page. Faculty/Staff Login to my.SMU. Select Employee Self Service. Click on the Financial Account tile. Select a term and click on an amount. Click on SMUpay. Select the account you are paying on the View & Pay Accounts page. Parents/Authorized Payers Returning users: Click here to be directed to SMUpay Students must add you as an Authorized Payer on their account to allow you to view bills/statements, view unbilled activity and make a payment. When students add an Authorized Payer, the added payer will receive an email which will contain a User ID and a URL required to activate the Authorized Payer. Students: Click here for instructions to Add Authorized Payer. Forget Login or Password? Click here for instructions. Non-checking Account Requirements Requirements for non-checking accounts: For SAVINGS account routing numbers, contact your financial institution. Deposit slips may not include the correct routing number. Not all payments from BROKERAGE/INVESTMENT accounts can be made online. Please check with your account representative. Checks written from credit card accounts, commonly called CONVENIENCE or CREDIT ADVANCE CHECKS, may not allow electronic transactions. Contact your financial institution to determine whether ACH transactions are allowed. Returned Checks If a check or electronic check payment posted to your student account is unable to be processed by the bank because of insufficient funds, closed account, invalid account number, or other applicable reason(s), the returned check payment amount, plus a $30 returned check fee, will be charged back to your student account. You will receive an e-mail notice regarding the returned check. A returned check hold will be placed on your student account and remain until a new payment and the $30 returned check fee is submitted. The $30 returned check fee is assessed for each return, regardless of the amount of each returned check. If an account indicates a history of returned checks, the university reserves the right to suspend a student’s check payment privileges. Credit Card Chargebacks If a credit or debit card transaction results in a chargeback, a $30 chargeback fee will be assessed to your student account. Payments Home Payment Methods Returned Checks Payment Plan Options FAQs Cost of Attendance Pay Now Students Parents Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share