Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Defending the Planet: A Columbia Law Podcast News From Columbia Law Story Archive Defending the Planet: A Columbia Law Podcast Can lawyers save the planet? Professor Michael B. Gerrard and leading experts go beyond the headlines and political ping-ponging to discuss combating the climate crisis using one of the most important and effective tools at our disposal: the law. Listen to the full series: Find all episodes below, and subscribe on Apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. About this Story Category Research and Scholarship Areas of Study Environment and Energy Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Social Justice and Human Rights Topics Podcast Defending the Planet Published June 02, 2021 Share Introducing Defending the Planet Host Michael B. Gerrard introduces the series with environmental journalist Andrew C. Revkin and environmental and climate justice advocate Shannon R. Marcoux ’21. Listen and learn more Episode 1: The Biden Reset Professor Jedediah S. Purdy and Catherine McCabe ’77, former commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, explore whether President Biden can overcome partisan divide and implement lasting environmental policies. Listen and Learn More Episode 2: The Power of States Former Montana Gov. Steve Bullock ’94 and Professor Jessica Bulman-Pozen discuss how states take action on climate change with or without federal leadership. Listen and Learn More Episode 3: Back in the Paris Pact Two negotiators of the Paris Agreement, Sue Biniaz ’83 and Laurence Tubiana, discuss the United States’ potential as a leader of international cooperation. Listen and Learn More Episode 4: Climate Change in the Courts Michael Burger ’03, executive director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, and Peter Lehner ’84 of Earthjustice and a lecturer in law at Columbia Law discuss new developments in climate-related litigation. Listen and Learn More Episode 5: The Climate Refugee Crisis University Professor Michael W. Doyle and Ama Francis, non-resident fellow at the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, discuss how existing human rights law and international cooperation can protect people fleeing the destructive forces of climate change. Listen and Learn More Episode 6: Environmental Justice Profesor Olatunde C.A. Johnson and environmental and community lawyer Ruth Santiago ’83 J.D., ’10 LL.M. discuss policies and legal strategies to create a healthier and safer world for all people. Listen and Learn More About the Host Michael B. Gerrard, Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice, is the founder and faculty director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law. He writes and teaches courses on environmental law, climate change law, and energy regulation. Before joining the Columbia Law School faculty in 2009 he practiced environmental law full-time in New York for 30 years. Gerrard has written or edited more than a dozen books on environmental law. About the Series Defending the Planet is brought to you by Columbia Law School and is produced by the Office of Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs. Special thanks to the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law. Learn more about our previous podcast: Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post Pandemic Economy. More Podcasts From Columbia Law Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post-Pandemic Economy In Columbia Law School’s new podcast, hosted by Professor Eric Talley, hear from leading experts as they chart a course for economic recovery in the wake of the pandemic and suggest new ways of approaching law, policy, and governance. Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: The Rise—and Results—of Shareholder Activism News Beyond Unprecedented: Meme Stock Mania Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.