Columbia University in the City of New York Office of the University Registrar Related Services for Students Student Service Center ID Center Student Financial Services CUMC Registration & Financial Services Finance CourseWorks Environmental Stewardship Dining Event Management Faculty House Health Housing Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Print Transportation Profile: Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez Law School Selects Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez for Campbell Award Profile: Linda Fried School of Public Health Dean, Linda Fried, Awarded Kober Medal for Study of Healthy Aging Search form Search News Forms About Us Academic Calendar Master Course Schedule and Calendar Wait Lists Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period Registration and Enrollment Registration Dates Registering for Classes and Appointment Times Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty Cross-Registration Dropping Courses Withdrawal Registration Holds Advising School Bulletins Auditing Programs Registrar Classrooms Exams Grades Graduation and Diplomas Transcripts and Certifications Faculty and Staff Personal Information Policies and Regulations Registrar Forms Text Resize -A +A Quick LinksAcademic CalendarMaster Course Schedule and CalendarWait ListsPost-Change of Program Add/Drop PeriodRegistration and Enrollment - Registration Dates - Registering for Classes and Appointment Times - Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty - Cross-Registration -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Barnard College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Jewish Theological Seminary -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Teachers College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Union Theological Seminary - Dropping Courses - Withdrawal -- Refund Rate for Withdrawals - Registration Holds - Advising - School Bulletins - Auditing ProgramsRegistrar Classrooms - Classroom Scheduling -- Classroom Descriptions - Registrar-Managed Classrooms - Building Codes - Protocol for Classroom RelocationExams - Final Exam SchedulesGrades - Grading System - Grade Options - Grade Point AverageGraduation and Diplomas - Diploma Replacement - Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use InternationallyTranscripts and Certifications - Transcripts - Certifications - Third Party Ordering - Release of Academic Information for Deceased Students - Information for ParentsFaculty and Staff - Class Rosters - Departmental Access - Academic Advising ResourcesPersonal Information - Name Changes -- Preferred Name FAQ - NameCoach - Withhold or Reverse Withholding... - Solomon AmendmentPolicies and Regulations - Privacy Rights (FERPA) -- Parents -- FERPA for Faculty & Staff - Central Administration of Academic Programs - Codes for Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) - Retention of Student Education Records - Standard Transcript NotationsRegistrar Forms - Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) - Academic Certification Request - Application for Degree or Certificate - Request for Transcript - Application for Replacement of Diploma - Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information - Name Change Affidavit Home > Registration and Enrollment > Information and Instructions for Faculty Information and Instructions for Faculty Wait List The Wait List feature is available to faculty (and students) using Student Services Online (SSOL). Wait Lists are used by instructors and departments to manage enrollment in courses. Some instructors or departments require students to join a Wait List before the cap is reached. In these cases, the instructor or department will manage entry to the course over the registration period. Please check departmental websites for additional information about Wait List management. On the day an instructor admits a student from a Wait List, the student will see a status of "Approved" in SSOL. The student will then be automatically enrolled overnight. The Wait List tool will close on Friday evening at the end of the Change of Program period in the fall and spring semesters. Auto-fill Wait List: Allows students to enroll into a course as seats become available, and students can see their position number on Auto-fill Wait Lists in SSOL. Self-managed Wait Lists: Allows instructors to manually add students to a course, and students will not see a position number in SSOL. Instructors and departments can set a course to self-managed in SSOL. This SSOL setting will allow students to add the course until the cap is reached. After the cap is reached, the Wait List will then be self-managed. If the instructor or department wants to set up a self-managed Wait List that prevents students from freely adding the course before the cap is reached, please contact your department administrator and ask that the course be blocked to adds on SSOL. We have developed the following reference documents: Wait List Overview (pdf) A one-page overview of the benefits and functions of the new Wait List. Wait List Faculty Quick Guide (pdf) A Quick Guide that shows the brief, step-by-step process for using the available Wait List options. The Wait List feature for course registration in SSOL went live for participating schools on the first day of classes of Fall 2013, Tuesday, September 3. Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period The Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period tool provides an electronic mechanism for students to add/drop courses after the Change of Program period by electronically routing requests to the course instructor and, where appropriate, the student’s advisor, using SSOL (https://ssol.columbia.edu). The tool allows the student to add a course in SSOL following online approval from the instructor and, where necessary, the advisor, as well as electronically manage course drops. Our Faculty Quick Guide (PDF) shows the brief, step-by-step process for using the Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period tool. Change of Grade Tool This feature is currently available to most students at Columbia University and is available to faculty using Student Services Online (SSOL). The Electronic Change of Grade tool provides an electronic mechanism for managing grade changes in SSOL after an initial grade has been submitted, significantly shortening the time required to post grade changes in SIS and display them to students. Our Change of Grade Overview (PDF) shows the brief, step-by-step process for using the electronic Change of Grade tool. Registration Dates Registering for Classes and Appointment Times Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty Cross-Registration Dropping Courses Withdrawal Registration Holds Advising School Bulletins Auditing Programs Registrar Highlights Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Directory of Classes Vergil FERPA and Personal Information Graduation and Diplomas Grades and Exams SSOL Office of the University Registrar | 210 Kent Hall, MC 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 | [email protected]