Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Cedric Ricks | Archives cedric.ricks@uc.edu | 260-415-8554 751 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Legal News Network: Delivering bad news to clients May 25, 2022 Marjorie Aaron, professor of practice and director of the Center for Practice in the UC College of Law, spoke with the Lawyerist Podcast on Legal News Network for a segment about delivering bad news to clients. Local 12 News: Developing an app could help transgender people... May 24, 2022 Vesna Dominika Novak, PhD, associate professor in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, spoke with Local 12 News about her research now available in the Journal of Voice. It shows the results of a 57-question survey of 21 transgender and gender diverse individuals focusing on voice, technology app usage, surgery, training and gender expression and identity. Construction Brothers Podcast: Be a builder, not a broker May 23, 2022 Tim Steigerwald, president of Messer Construction, spoke with the host of Construction Brothers Podcast about improvements in the construction industry and the growing role of co-op. Stegerwald called out UC’s role in co-op, the university is ranked in the top four of schools providing co-op experiences for students nationally. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). WCPO: Next battle over access to abortion will focus on pills May 9, 2022 Jenn Dye, PhD, Theodore M. Berry Director of the Nathaniel R. Jones Center for Race, Gender, and Social Justice, in the UC College of Law, discussed future access to abortion with journalist Mariel Carbone of WCPO-TV in Cincinnati. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. UC student used co-op to make connections, discover what a... April 21, 2022 Now a fourth-year student, Mackenzie Maisel says her decision to attend the University of Cincinnati was in part based on the importance the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning placed on students participating in co-op experiences. WVXU: Transgender and gender diverse people can struggle to... April 18, 2022 Vesna D. Novak, PhD, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science at UC, spoke with 91.7 WVXU for a news broadcast about her latest research on transgender and gender diverse communities. How do I sound? Do you like my voice? April 13, 2022 A study led by University of Cincinnati researcher Vesna Dominika Novak, suggests that transgender and gender diverse people may benefit from better-designed smartphone apps that offer voice and communication training software that help lessen voice-gender incongruence for transgender individuals. Spectrum News: Cincinnati twins celebrate National Siblings Day April 12, 2022 National Siblings Day, April 10, is a great time to honor your brother or sister. UC students Alvin and Kelvin Mantey, identical twins, took time to honor each other and their older siblings and UC alums, Godfrey and Alfred Mantey. The Mantey brothers were featured on Spectrum News showcasing the bonds of brotherhood for National Siblings Day. Cincinnati Media: Greater Cincinnati professionals reflect on... April 8, 2022 UC College of Law Dean Verna Williams visited the downtown studio of Fox 19 to discuss Judge Ketanji Brown’ Jackson's historic confirmation proceedings while UC law student Ashley Nkadi celebrated news of the U.S. Senate approving Brown’s confirmation with an interview with WLWT-Channel 5. WLWT: UC's African-American/Black Male Staff Organization hosts... April 4, 2022 The African American/Black Male Staff Organization hosted a day-long summit Saturday, April 2 to address issues Black men are facing in higher education. Journalists from WLWT Channel 5 made a visit to the summit and spoke with participants for a story. Young, gifted and Black April 4, 2022 A Seat at the Table content series looks to explore the experiences and identities of diverse student populations at UC while shedding light on support, resources and opportunities available at the university. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top