Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Graduate School Skip to Navigation About the Graduate School Participating in a Vibrant Community Brown University's Graduate School offers 51 doctoral programs and 32 master’s programs, including those of the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health, and the School of Professional Studies. Brown has a friendly scale and collaborative culture. With more than 2,600 graduate students and more than 700 full-time faculty members, Brown offers excellent academic training and mentoring within a supportive environment. The University is committed to creating a more diverse and inclusive academic community. Please read about diversity and inclusion at Brown. Distinctive Opportunities Graduate students may choose from a range of development opportunities, including: Open Graduate Education program, providing flexibility for select doctoral students to define their academic journey and earn a secondary master's degree of their choosing. Doctoral certificates as well as Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning certificates. Global Mobility grants and Graduate School travel research funds, supporting graduate student scholarship. Deans' Faculty Fellowship Program, enabling advanced doctoral students to strengthen their teaching portfolios. Interdisciplinary Opportunities for advanced doctoral students, allowing engagement in scholarly life at participating Centers and Institutes. Both the Brown-Wheaton Faculty Fellowships and the Brown-Tougaloo Faculty Fellowships provide advanced teaching opportunities at a liberal arts and a rural college, respectively. Brown Executive Scholars Training Program, preparing advanced master’s students and doctoral candidates for careers in higher education administration. Effective Performance workshops, improving capacity as communicators for research and teaching. Community and Groups Graduate students can get involved in the Graduate Student Council. The Graduate Community Fellows Program offers another avenue to cultivate community as well as leadership, collaboration, and problem solving skills. Through Brown's Swearer Center for Public Service, students can engage in the local community. Student groups include the Samuel M. Nabrit Black Graduate Student Association, Graduate Women in Science and Engineering (GWiSE), the Brown Tango Club, the Brown chapter of SACNAS, which stands for the Society for the Advancement of Chicano and Native Americans in Science and the Chinese Students and Scholars Association. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants