Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Community Education & Training » Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology The University of Cincinnati (“UC”) is committed to ensuring equal access to University programs and activities for all students, faculty, staff, and visitors. The Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion (“OGEI”) supports UC’s dedication to equity and inclusion by educating the campus community on concepts integral to improving campus climate. This list of terminology serves as a resource for those who wish to learn and engage in conversations around gender and sexual diversity (“GSD”). It is important to note that this resource is not an exhaustive list of GSD terminology, and terminology is fluid and constantly evolving. We encourage individuals to become familiar with this list and to continue to educate themselves responsibly on GSD terminology and concepts. In addition to this list, community members may find further educational touchpoints and resources from the following: OGEI Community Education & Training LGBTQ Center Women's Center Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Ally right arrow down arrow A person who openly affirms and advocates for the safety, dignity, and inclusion of those from a marginalized social group. Allyship in this context means advocating for the well-being and rights of people who hold marginalized gender and sexual identities. Binary right arrow down arrow The classification of things into two distinct, opposite, and disconnected categories. In this context, masculine v. feminine, male v. female, gay v. straight, and cisgender v. transgender are examples. A binary mindset is problematic when considering gender and sexual diversity. Cisgender right arrow down arrow A descriptor for a person whose gender identity aligns with the sex they were assigned at birth - sometimes “cis” for short. “Cisgender” is preferred to terms like “biological,” “genetic,” or “real” when referring to gender, as these terms suggest that transgender and non-binary people’s identities are not authentic or legitimate. Cisnormativity right arrow down arrow An (often unconscious) notion or belief that everyone is or should be cisgender and the attitudes and outcomes associated with this assumption. Cisgender Privilege right arrow down arrow Advantages that come with identifying or being perceived as cisgender (e.g., acceptance from family and religious institutions, safety in public spaces, access to competent and respectful healthcare, acceptance in one’s chosen career field). Cissexism right arrow down arrow Behavior, policies, and other actions that grant preferential treatment to cisgender people. A type of sexism that reinforces the idea that being cisgender is somehow better or more “right” than other gender identities and/or makes other genders invisible. Coming Out right arrow down arrow The lifelong process of acknowledging, defining, and sharing one’s gender, sexual orientation, and/or romantic orientation. Coming out may happen multiple times over an individual’s lifetime. Gender right arrow down arrow The categorization of people based on social/cultural constructions of masculinity, femininity, and other gender categories. Gender is usually attributed to social roles and the perceptions of others about how gender should be performed instead of the gender that an individual affirms for themselves. “Woman,” “man,” “boy,” and “girl” are examples of this term. “Gender” is often confused with “sex.” Gender Confirmation right arrow down arrow The process by which people more closely align their outward appearance with their internal knowledge of their gender. This can be a social process (e.g., dressing and using names and pronouns in alignment with one’s gender identity) and/or a medical process (such as hormone therapy or surgery). Gender Expression right arrow down arrow Everything we do that communicates our gender to others: clothing, hairstyles, mannerisms, way of speaking, roles we take in interactions, etc. Gender expression manifests in a number of ways, such as femininity, masculinity, and androgyny. Gender expression can vary for an individual from day to day or in different situations. Gender Identity right arrow down arrow How one sees oneself as a gendered or agender person. Gender identity is how we think about ourselves and define ourselves – it is not defined by how other people perceive our gender. Gender identity may be fluid, depending on an individual’s experience of cultural influences. Common identity labels include cisgender, agender, and transgender. Gender-Inclusive right arrow down arrow A descriptor of practices, language, and spaces that seek to include people of all genders. “Gender-neutral,” “unisex,” and “genderless” are often used to mean “gender-inclusive” as well. Heteronormativity right arrow down arrow An (often unconscious) notion that everyone is or should be heterosexual and the attitudes and outcomes associated with this assumption. Heterosexism right arrow down arrow Behaviors, policies, and other actions that grant preferential treatment to heterosexual people. A type of sexism that reinforces the idea that heterosexuality is somehow better or more “right” than any other sexual orientations and/or makes other orientations invisible. Heterosexual Privilege right arrow down arrow Advantages that come with identifying or being perceived as heterosexual (e.g., acceptance from family and religious institutions, safety in public spaces, access to competent and respectful healthcare, acceptance in one’s chosen career field). Intersex right arrow down arrow An umbrella term for people who exhibit biological and/or anatomical diversity which might include ambiguous genitalia, having traits of both male and female reproductive organs, possessing a chromosomal variance other than XY or XX, having hormone levels that are not considered average, or other biological factors which don’t easily fit into constructed “male” or “female” boxes. LGBTQIA+ right arrow down arrow Initialism that stands for Lesbian. Gay. Bisexual. Queer. Intersex. Asexual. Plus. This initialism may be seen in different forms, sometimes shortened as LBGTQ+, for example. Non-Binary right arrow down arrow Not relating to, composed of, or involving just two things. In a gender/sexual diversity context, identities beyond the binary of man/woman, male/female, masculine/feminine, and gay/straight. Outing right arrow down arrow Exposing someone’s identity(ies) to others. Outing someone can have serious repercussions for that person’s employment, economic stability, personal safety, or familial relationships. Queer right arrow down arrow An umbrella term that describes sexual and gender identities other than heterosexual and cisgender. Also used to express a sexual or gender identity that is fluid, complicated, and/or cannot be defined. Terms like “genderqueer” may be used to disrupt to concept of gender. While often used today, queer has a long history as a slur, so the decision to use this word should be made after determining the context of the situation. QTPOC right arrow down arrow Initialism that stands for queer and transgender people of color. Questioning right arrow down arrow In the context of gender/sexual diversity, being unsure of, exploring, and/or otherwise being in the process of understanding one’s gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual identity, and/or sexual orientation. Romantic Orientation right arrow down arrow The direction of one’s romantic interest toward others, if any. Romantic orientation indicates the sex and/or gender with which a person is likely to have a romantic relationship or fall in love. This does not necessarily have to involve sex. Sex right arrow down arrow The categorization of people based on a collection of physical and/or biological traits and factors, either known or assumed. Sex is usually defined as relating to reproductive organs, genitalia, chromosomes, hormones, and/or secondary sex characteristics. Male, female, and intersex are examples of this term. “Sex” is often confused with “gender.” Sex Assigned at Birth right arrow down arrow The sex categorization imposed, generally by a medical or birthing professional, based on a physical examination of a newborn. Sexual Identity right arrow down arrow How one identifies one's degree of desire for intimate emotional and/or sexual relationships. Asexual and demisexual are examples of this term. “Sexual identity” is often misconstrued to mean “sexual orientation.” Sexual Orientation right arrow down arrow The direction of one's sexual interest toward others, if any. Sexual orientation indicates the sex and/or gender with which a person is likely sexually attracted to or have a sexual relationship. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and pansexual are examples of this term. “Sexual orientation” is often misconstrued to mean “sexual identity.” Transgender right arrow down arrow An umbrella term for someone whose gender identity and/or gender expression does not align with that typically associated with the sex they were assigned at birth. The term transgender is not indicative of gender expression, sexual orientation, hormonal makeup, physical anatomy, or how one is perceived in daily life. Sometimes shortened to trans or trans*. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top