University of Pennsylvania Patient Care Supporting Penn Medicine Home About Us Office of the Dean Office of the EVD/CSO Overview Our Faculty School Leadership School Administration Strategic Plan Employment Opportunities Education Overview MD Program PhD Program MD-PhD and Dual Degree Programs Masters Programs Visiting Students Continuing Medical and Interprofessional Education Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs Graduate Medical Education Other Educational Programs Research Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Inclusion & Diversity Engagement Community Outreach Global Initiatives About Us Our Faculty Mucio Kit Delgado Mucio Kit Delgado, MD, MS Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine Attending Physician, Department of Emergency Medicine, Hospital of the Univeristy of Pennsylvania (clinical care & bedside education) Faculty, Center for Emergency Care and Policy Research, University of Pennsylvania Investigator, Penn Injury Science Center, University of Pennsylvania Senior Fellow, Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania Senior Scholar, Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Pennsylvania Affiliated Faculty, Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics, University of Pennsylvania Associate Fellow, Center for Injury Research and Prevention, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Associate Director, Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics Co-Chair, University of Pennsylvania Health System Opioid Task Force Department: Emergency Medicine Graduate Group Affiliations Epidemiology and Biostatistics Contact information Department of Emergency Medicine 933 Blockley Hall, 423 Guardian Drive Philadelphia, PA 19104 Office: 215-746-8256 Fax: 215-573-2265 Email: kit.delgado@uphs.upenn.edu Links Behavioral Science & Analytics For Injury Reduction (BeSAFIR) lab twitter page Google Scholar Citations Education: B.A. (Public/International Affairs) Princeton University, 2001. M.D. (Doctor of Medicine) Columbia University, 2006. M.S. (Health Services Research) Stanford University School of Medicine, 2012. Permanent link > Perelman School of Medicine > Faculty > Details Description of Research Expertise M. Kit Delgado, MD, MS, is an Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Epidemiology and an attending physician in the Penn Presbyterian Medical Center emergency department, the Level I trauma center for West Philadelphia. He serves as an Associate Director of the Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics (CHIBE) and is the Deputy Director of the Penn Medicine Nudge Unit. He also leads the Behavioral Science & Analytics For Injury Reduction (BeSAFIR) lab, which applies data science and behavioral economics for improving health care and preventing injuries and overdoses. BeSAFIR has three complementary lines of research: 1) Analysis of large health system, state, and national datasets of emergency department encounters to elucidate opportunities to improve emergency and trauma care and to prevent injuries. 2) Development and testing of health system interventions for promoting opioid stewardship for acute pain management and for facilitating the treatment of patients with opioid use disorder in the emergency department. Dr. Delgado is Co-Chair of the University Pennsylvania Health System Opioid Task Force. 3) Development and testing of interventions for preventing motor vehicle crashes from distracted and alcohol-impaired driving by leveraging smartphone technology and insights from behavioral economics. This work includes partnerships with large U.S. auto-insurers. Dr. Delgado's work is funded by the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute. He is a Senior Scholar in the Center Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics (CCEB), a Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics (LDI) Senior Fellow, and a faculty member in the Center for Emergency Care Policy and Research (CECPR), the Penn Injury Science Center (PISC), and the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Center for Injury Research and Prevention (CIRP). He has previously served as a member of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) Committee on Accelerating Progress to Reduce Alcohol-Impaired Driving Fatalities and the Committee on Evidence-based Clinical Practice Guidelines for Prescribing Opioids for Acute Pain. His achievements have been recognized with the Marjorie A. Bowman New Investigator Research Award. He received his M.D. from Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons and his M.S. in Health Services Research from Stanford University. Selected Publications Lee KC, Morgan AU, Chaiyachati KH, Asch DA, Xiong RA, Do D, Kilaru AS, Lam D, Parambath A, Friedman AB, Meisel ZF, Snider CK, Chisholm DL, Kelly S, Hemmons JE, Abdel-Rahman D, Ebert J, Ghosh M, Reilly J, O'Malley CJ, Hahn L, Mannion NM, Huffenberger AM, McGinley S, Balachandran M, Khan N, Shea JA, Mitra N, Delgado MK: Pulse Oximetry for Monitoring Patients with Covid-19 at Home - A Pragmatic, Randomized Trial. New England Journal of Medicine Apr 2022 Notes: doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2201541. Epub ahead of print. Lowenstein M, McFadden R, Abdel-Rahman D, Perrone J, Meisel ZF, O’Donnell N, Wood C, Solomon G, Beidas R, Delgado MK: Redesign of Opioid Use Disorder Screening and Treatment in the ED. NEJM Catalyst: Innovations in Care Delivery 3(1), Dec 2021. Lowenstein M, Perrone J, Xiong RA, Snider CK, O’Donnell N, Hermann D, Rosin R, Dees J, McFadden R, Khatri U, Meisel ZF, Mitra N, Delgado MK: Sustained Implementation of a Multicomponent Strategy to Increase Emergency Department-Initiated Interventions for Opioid Use Disorder. Annals of Emergency Medicine Dec 2021. Delgado MK, Morgan AU, Asch DA, Xiong R, Kilaru AS, Lee KC, Do D, Friedman AB, Meisel ZF, Snider CK, Lam D, Parambath A, Wood C, Wilson CM, Perez M, Chisholm DL, Kelly S, O'Malley CJ, Mannion N, Huffenberger AM, McGinley S, Balachandran M, Khan N, Mitra N, Chaiyachati KH: Comparative Effectiveness of an Automated Text Messaging Service for Monitoring COVID-19 at Home. Annals of Internal Medicine Nov 2021 Notes: doi: 10.7326/M21-2019, Epub ahead of print. Delgado MK, Shofer F, Wetherill R, Curtis B, Hemmons J, Spencer E, Branas C, Wiebe DJ, Kranzler HR.: Accuracy of Consumer‐Marketed Smartphone‐Paired Alcohol Breath Testing Devices: A Laboratory Validation Study. Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research May 2021. Agarwal AK, Lee D, Ali Z, Sennett B, Xiong R, Hemmons J, Spencer E, Abdel-Rahman D, Kleinman R, Lacko H, Horan A, Dooley M, Hume E, Mehta S, Delgado MK.: Patient-Reported Opioid Consumption and Pain Intensity After Common Orthopedic and Urologic Surgical Procedures With Use of an Automated Text Messaging System. JAMA Network Open 4(3): e213243-e213243, March 2021. Kaufman, EJ, Wiebe, DJ , Xiong, RA, Morrison, CN, Seamon, MJ, Delgado, MK: Epidemiologic Trends in Fatal and Nonfatal Firearm Injuries in the US, 2009-2017. JAMA Internal Medicine Online ahead of print., December 2020 Notes: doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2020.6696. Lowenstein M, Hossain E, Yang W, Grande D, Perrone J, Neuman MD, Ashburn M, Delgado MK: Impact of a State Opioid Prescribing Limit and Electronic Medical Record Alert on Opioid Prescriptions: a Difference-in-Differences Analysis. Journal of General Internal Medicine [Epub ahead of print], October 2019. Kilaru AS, Xiong A, Lowenstein M, Meisel ZF, Perrone J, Khatri U, Mitra N, Delgado MK: Incidence of Treatment for Opioid Use Disorder Following Nonfatal Overdose in Commercially Insured Patients. JAMA Network Open 3(5), May 2020 Notes: doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.5852. Delgado, MK, Shofer, FS, Patel, MS, Halpern, SD, Edwards, C, Meisel, ZF, Perrone, J: Association Between Electronic Medical Record Implementation of Default Opioid Prescription Quantities on Prescribing Behavior in Two Emergency Departments. Journal of General Internal Medicine 33(4): 409-411, Apr 2018. back to top Last updated: 05/04/2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Back to Top Contact and Directions Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania 3400 Civic Center Boulevard Building 421, Philadelphia, PA 19104 More Contact Information Maps Social Media Follow Us on Facebook Check out our tweets See our latest posts Quick Links For: Faculty Students Alumni Staff Calendar News A-Z Guide Webmail MY.MED Penn Directory University of Pennsylvania © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Site Design: PMACS Web Team. Home About Us Office of the Dean Office of the EVD/CSO Overview Our Faculty School Leadership School Administration Employment Opportunities Education Overview MD Program PhD Program MD-PhD and Dual Degree Programs Masters Programs Visiting Students Continuing Medical and Interprofessional Education Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs Graduate Medical Education Other Educational Programs Research Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Inclusion & Diversity Engagement Community Outreach Global Initiatives Quick Links Supporting Penn Medicine Patient Care @ Penn Medicine University of Pennslyvania