HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT FAQ CONTACT US Fraternities & Sororities College Panhellenic Association (CPA) The College Panhellenic Association (CPA) governs organizations that are affiliated with the National Panhellenic Conference. Current CPA Sororities Current CPA Sororities Alpha Chi Omega Alpha Delta Pi Alpha Phi Chi Omega Delta Delta Delta Delta Gamma Delta Zeta Gamma Phi Beta Kappa Delta Kappa Kappa Gamma Pi Beta Phi Sigma Kappa Zeta Tau Alpha Council Website: clemsonpanhellenic.com Interfraternity Council (IFC) The Interfraternity Council (IFC) governs organizations that are either affiliated with the North-American Interfraternity Conference or are independent social fraternities. Current IFC Chapters Current IFC Chapters Alpha Gamma Rho Alpha Sigma Phi Alpha Tau Omega Beta Theta Pi Beta Upsilon Chi Chi Phi Chi Psi Delta Chi Farmhouse Kappa Sigma Kappa Alpha Order Phi Delta Theta Phi Gamma Delta Phi Sigma Kappa Pi Kappa Alpha Pi Kappa Phi Psi Upsilon Sigma Alpha Epsilon Sigma Nu Tau Kappa Epsilon Theta Chi Triangle Zeta Beta Tau Council Website: clemson-ifc.com Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) The Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) governs organizations that are historically multicultural and multiethnic fraternities and sororities. Current MGC Sororities and Fraternities Current MGC Sororities and Fraternities Delta Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc. Hermandad de Sigma Iota Alpha, Inc. Lambda Theta Phi Latin Fraternity, Inc. Pi Alpha Phi Fraternity, Inc. Sigma Lambda Gamma Sorority, Inc Council Website: clemsonmgc.org National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) governs organizations that are affiliated with the National Pan-Hellenic Council. These organizations are historically African American organizations. Current NPHC Sororities and Fraternities Current NPHC Sororities and Fraternities Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc. Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc. Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. Council Website: nphcclemson.com FSL Wellness Advocates Mission The Mission of the Clemson Fraternity and Sorority Life Wellness Advocates is to provide an inclusive fraternity and sorority community, where students can reflect and learn about safety and holistic health by providing resources as well as implementation of our year long programming. If your organization would like to request a specific topic or program, please contact greek@clemson.edu. Vision Our vision is to develop an inclusive, healthy, and educated fraternity and sorority community. Members Members Members Grace D'Egidio- Alpha Chi Omega Slater Deane - Chi Phi Joey DeSimone - Kappa Sigma Paige Disher - Alpha Delta Pi Zach Dudas - Beta Theta Pi Diana Frank - Alpha Delta Pi Anna Hicks - Delta Delta Delta Karlie Hill - Kappa Kappa Gamma Kathryn Jones - Delta Delta Delta Samantha Jones - Kappa Kappa Gamma Kate Lalley - Alpha Delta Pi Rocky Mack - Alpha Chi Omega Meredith Reese - Delta Delta Delta Rebecca Rogers - Alpha Delta Pi Elizabeth Taylor - Delta Delta Delta Annie Walker - Alpha Delta Pi Carter Whaley - Alpha Sigma Phi Sophie Wichlac - Alpha Phi Events The FSL Wellness Advocates strive to host monthly events to educate the fraternity and sorority community. Our events include topics regarding academic performance, challenging the fraternity/sorority stereotype, hazing prevention, alcohol awareness, healthy relationships, nutrition/exercising/stress management, sexual assault awareness, and many more. Training All FSL Wellness Advocates go through a 12-hour training to become a peer educator. The training is an eight-module course through NASPA and the BACCHUS Network. This training covers the following topics: Understanding the Power, Roles, and Characteristics of Quality Peer Educators Affecting and Understanding “Change Making” as a Peer Educator Being an Effective Listener as a Peer Educator A Peer Educator’s Role in Responding to Crisis Bystander Intervention as a Peer Education Technique Intrapersonal Applications of Identity as a Peer Educator Putting the “Educator” in Peer Educator Group Development and Moving Forward Contact For more information regarding the FSL Wellness Advocates, please contact Ashley Underwood, amunder@clemson.edu. FSL Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Ambassadors The Clemson FSL DEI Ambassadors is an organization within Fraternity and Sorority Life composed of affiliated students who applied for the role. FSL DEI Ambassadors exist educate the Clemson fraternity and sorority community on topics of diversity, equity, and inclusion and their importance within fraternities and sororities through programming, trainings, and dialogue. All FSL DEI Ambassadors receive 10 hours of training in the beginning of the role. This training covers the following topics: Understanding identity, oppression, and privilege, History of fraternities and sororities, LGBTQAI+ Ally training, and more. For more information regarding the FSL DEI Ambassadors, please contact Makala Nelsen, mnelsen@clemson.edu CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster