Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversitySchool of Dentistry School of Dentistry Admissions D.D.S. Program Prospective Students Application Requirements Academic Requirements Admissions Process Tuition and costs Application for admission to the D.D.S. program may be made through the Associated American Dental Schools Application Service (AADSAS) Other Applicants Pre-Dental Scholars Program Foreign-Trained International Transfer Students Other Resources What's Happening in Admissions DAT Examination Take a Virtual Tour of the Dental School Masters and Certificate Programs Graduate School Application Information (Graduate School) Dental Biomaterials Endodontics Orthodontics Periodontics Prosthodontics Patients New Patients How to become a patient? Emergency Dental Care Walk-in emergency service Community Clinics Community Dental Clinic - South Dental Patient Portal MyDental Portal Existing Patients Contact and treatment information Dental Services We offer a full range of dental services Faculty Practice Clinic More information Insurance and Payments Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Contact Us Directions Marquette University School of Dentistry 1801 West Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee WI 53233 Parking Patient parking is available in Lot S 605 N. 18th St. Students Academic Resources Marquette Email and Calendar D2L - Desire2Learn Login Dental School Resources (SharePoint) Curriculum Academic Calendar Academic Policies and Procedures CoursEval Student Resources Student Services | Servicios Estudiantiles American Student Dental Association (ASDA) Scholarships and Financial Aid Student Research Group (SRG) Other Resources Faculty/Staff Directory All Dental Contacts (A to Z) Marquette IT Help Desk COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Contact Tracing Marquette COVID-19 Student Resources How to prevent COVID-19? FAQs Practice Transitions Post and Search Opportunities Research Research at the dental school Research Home ePublications@Marquette Faculty Research Dissertations and Theses Student Research Group (SRG) Tayebi Research Group About News Current Research Publications Presentations Facilities Members Contact Bedran-Russo Research Group About News Current Research Publications Facilities Members Contact Professionals Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Events Information Continuing Education Continuing Education Information Continuing Education Calendar Patient Referrals Refer patient records to the School of Dentistry How to Refer Patient Radiographs Outside/Faculty Practice Referral for Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) Dental Images View digital dental magazines Practice Transitions Post and Search Opportunities Career Opportunities Apply for open positions Faculty/Staff Dental School Resources Alumni Home Alumni Events Information Continuing Education Information Continuing Education Calendar Most Used Resources COVID-19 Contact Tracing Faculty/Staff Directory All Dental Contacts (A to Z) Information Technology Resources Marquette ITS Help Desk Marquette Email and Calendar CheckMarq Login CoursEval D2L - Desire2Learn Login Dental School Resources (SharePoint) Microsoft Teams Professional Resources ADA ADEA WDA Online Resources Practice Transitions Post and Search Opportunities Dental Images View digital dental magazines Giving Giving to the dental school How can I donate? Endowed Scholarships, Fellowships and Professorships Dental School Dean's Fund Dean's Circle Make a gift Visit the online donation form Meeting the challenges ahead Giving to support the Marquette University School of Dentistry Hands-on learning. Real-world environment. We are a patient- and student-centered dental school. You're in good hands in our clinic! How to become a patient News and Events Welcome! I would like to take this opportunity to welcome you to the Marquette University School of Dentistry website. The School of Dentistry has been a significant provider of oral health care to patients and an excellent clinically based dental education to dental students for more than 100 years. We are committed to providing the best comprehensive oral health care to our patients in a “patient-centered” environment, whether it is at our main clinic site or in any outreach site that our students and faculty provide care. We are also committed to providing our students with an integrated, patient-based dental education that focuses on clinical excellence and reflects current knowledge, research and practice of dentistry. We will continue to build on our strengths and serve the needs of our patients, students and alumni for many years to come. We believe that you will enjoy your visit with us and trust that it will meet all of your needs. William K. Lobb, D.D.S., M.S., M.P.H. Dean, School of Dentistry Learn more about the School of Dentistry 125 years of healing, teaching and serving statewide. Facts & Figures This report provides a snapshot of how the school's annual health care services impact Wisconsin. COVID-19 Contact Tracing Dental School News The School of Dentistry graduated its 10,000th dentist at its 2022 Commencement and hooding ceremony on May 21 (Read more) Dr. Shivam Mehta, Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthodontics in the Department of Developmental Sciences of the Marquette University School of Dentistry, has been invited to present the Graber Lecture at the 2022 Annual Session of the American Association of Orthodontists (AAO) Conference. The Lecture is presented annually at the Annual Session of the American Association of Orthodontists (AAO) Conference. The Graber Lecture is one of the most prestigious lectures in Orthodontics. Dr. Mehta will be presenting his research on Osteogenesis Imperfecta. The title of his presentation is: “How does Alendronate affect orthodontic tooth movement in Osteogenesis Imperfecta: An in-vivo study in a mouse model.” The Graber Lecture will be presented on Saturday, May 21, 2022, from 2:40 - 3:00 PM Eastern Time in Miami Beach, Florida. Dr. Shivam Mehta, Clinical Assistant Professor of Developmental Sciences at the Marquette University School of Dentistry, has obtained research funding from the American Association of Orthodontics Foundation (AAOF) for the Research Project entitled, “Orthodontic Diagnosis with Artificial Intelligence.” The one-year $20,000 award is through the Orthodontic Faculty Development Fellowship Award (OFDFA) program. This continues the Marquette University School of Dentistry’s success at receiving funding from the AAOF. Past Marquette University School of Dentistry fellowship award recipients have included: Dr. Dawei Liu, Dr. Bhoomika Ahuja, and Dr. Ghada Nimeri. Dr. William Lobb, dean of the School of Dentistry, was interviewed by Wisconsin Health News on April 1 about the school serving special needs patients. The School of Dentistry has received a $2 million gift from Delta Dental of Wisconsin Foundation. The gift will support technology enhancements and the establishment of the Delta Dental Advanced Care Clinic, a dedicated area that will strengthen care for individuals with special needs, enhance focused training and create “dental homes" (Read more). More news and events Quick Links VIRTUAL TOUR of the dental school Prospective Students Patients Current Students Faculty/Staff Dental Professionals Practice Transitions: Post and Search Opportunities Research at the Dental School Departments Clinical Services Developmental Sciences General Dental Sciences Surgical Sciences SEARCH Search Dentistry SEE AN ISSUE? If you see an issue with this website, please use the contact form on the contact page PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem DENTISTRY A TO Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W XYZ DENTISTRY ON SOCIAL Special care dentistry Marquette is one of six dental schools around the country with a Special Care Dentistry Association (SCDA) student group. Hands-on learning Every step you take in our four-year program will be guided by faculty and practicing professionals who uphold Marquette's vision. Dental Images Learn more about how the Dental School prepares the next generations of professionals and much more. Location 1801 West Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 (414) 288-6790 Contact the School of Dentistry Campus Map Key Resources Become a patient Patient emergencies Search dentistry Admissions Applying Tuition/costs Contact us DENTISTRY A to Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W XYZ Search dentistry Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©