Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home Who We Are About The Iowa State University Foundation is charged with the rewarding task of fundraising for the university. Together, we work as a team to expertly match our donors’ passions with Iowa State’s needs. The first gift to Iowa State was made in 1899 by alumnus and former professor Edgar Stanton, who donated the original 10 bells of the Campanile. Without this first gift, and all the generous gifts since then, Iowa State’s campus would be completely different. The foundation honors this tradition today by finding new ways to move Iowa State University forward – whether through scholarship support, funding leading-edge facilities, creating new opportunities, or recruiting the best faculty. Join us today in the movement to keep Iowa State moving forward. For more information about the Iowa State University Foundation, learn about our Code of Ethics and our Mission Statement, Vision Statement, Belief Statements and Strategic Plan. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are About Our Culture Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top