Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index College of Media & Communication Menu Search Communication Studies A degree in Communication Studies has never been more valuable and marketable than in the global, networked world of the 21st century. Through a dynamic and diverse curriculum that spans interpersonal, intercultural, and organizational communication as well as rhetoric and public affairs, students develop communication skills aimed at enhancing their personal, professional, and public lives. A Message from the Chair Advising News Faculty Check Us Out Texas Tech's two-time national award winning Parliamentary Debate Team gives students an opportunity build communication skills by matching wits with students from across the country. Give to Communication Studies Debate Team Texas Tech University is home to one of the most successful debate programs in the country. TTU Forensics is one of the oldest programs on campus, and has established a legacy of excellence that mirrors the lofty goals and expectations the University has set for itself. The debate program has produced three national championships in the past decade: Two NPDA National Championships (2008 and 2010) and an NPTE top-speaker (2010). The program has placed numerous teams in top 5 finishes at nationals and is generally regarded as a year-in, year-out powerhouse. Check out the Debate Team. Frequently Asked Questions What can I do with a degree in Communication Studies? The short answer is pretty much anything you want. Our majors are remarkably creative and entrepreneurial and, in fact, many start their own businesses. Because Communication Studies stresses skills that are crucial to virtually all fields—skills such as effective speaking, writing, relationship-building, and critical thinking—our majors are extraordinarily successful at landing jobs across an array of industries, including business, finance, marketing, public relations, broadcasting, health, art, education, nonprofits, and a host of others. So, rather than asking what can you do with a degree in Communication Studies, the more pertinent question is: how will you successfully negotiate the new information landscape of the 21st century without a degree in Communication Studies? Is Communication Studies just about public speaking? No. While effective oral communication skills in public is one important dimension of what we do, a degree in Communication Studies will enhance your communication skills in all aspects of your life: personal, professional, and public. Students learn how to communicate more effectively in romantic, relational, familial, and other interpersonal contexts, as well as how to communicate more effectively in small groups and organizations. We are committed to creating well-rounded individuals who are happy and healthy in all aspects of their lives. A degree in Communication Studies equips you to live well. Does Communication Studies deal with communication disorders? No. We are not a department of communication disorders and we do not offer classes related to speech impairments or difficulties with auditory processing. The personal. The professional. The public. Talk to Someone We'd love to talk to you about our communications studies program! Use the form below to contact our Interim Department Chair Mark Gring. If you see this don't fill out this input box. *Your Name: *Your Email: *Your Message Captcha Verification Submit Reset Contact ContactContact Contact Contact Guns Up!Guns Up! Apply HeartHeart Give Double TDouble T Visit College of Media & Communication Like College of Media & Communication on FacebookLike College of Media & Communication on Facebook Follow College of Media & Communication on twitterFollow College of Media & Communication on twitter Subscribe to College of Media & Communication on YouTubeSubscribe to College of Media & Communication on YouTube Follow College of Media & Communication on InstagramFollow College of Media & Communication on Instagram Connect with College of Media & Communication on LinkedInConnect with College of Media & Communication on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University, Box 43082, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.6500 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 1, 2022 11:05 AM College of Media & Communication New Students College of Media & Communication New Students Back I've been accepted to TTU! College of Media & Communication New Students Back Help me get started Register for orientation Take a virtual tour Prospective Students College of Media & Communication New Students Prospective Students Back Prospective Students Home Apply to TTU Now! Transferring? Learn More Testimonials Parents Learning Communities How to apply College of Media & Communication New Students Back Apply to Undergraduate Apply to Graduate Programs & Majors College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Back Undergraduate Programs College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Undergraduate Programs Back Undergraduate Programs Home Apply Now! Advertising Communication Studies Creative Media Industries Digital Media & Professional Communication Journalism Media Strategies Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management Certificates Minors Graduate Programs College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Graduate Programs Back Graduate Programs Home Apply Now! Ph.D. Program M.A. Programs Graduate Certificates Graduate Faculty Graduate Student Resources Financial Aid College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Financial Aid Back Scholarships M.A. Scholarship & Financial Aid Info Ph.D. Scholarship & Financial Aid Info Students & Faculty College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Back Prospective Students College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Prospective Students Back Prospective Students Home Apply Now! Transferring? Learn More Testimonials Parents Learning Communities Current Students College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Current Students Back Current Students Home Study Abroad Careers & Internships Technology Recommendations Student Organizations Basics of Writing Exam Student Work Gallery Advising College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Advising Back Advising Home Red Raider Orientation Advertising Communication Studies Creative Media Industries Digital Media & Professional Communication Journalism Media Strategies Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management Virtual Schedule Builder Faculty & Staff College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Faculty & Staff Back College Directory Intranet New Technology Request Email Technology Support About College of Media & Communication About Back Our College College of Media & Communication About Our College Back Employment About Our College Departments & Centers Our Building History & Future Our Facilities College Events Strategic Goals Virtual Tour Our People College of Media & Communication About Our People Back Diversity College Directory Faculty & Staff Resources National Advisory Board Dean's Student Ambassadors Publications College of Media & Communication About Publications Back College Publications College News The MC Magazine Contact Us College of Media & Communication About Contact Us Back Contact Us 806.742.6500 comc@ttu.edu Alumni & Giving College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Back Alumni College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Alumni Back Alumni Home Alumni Updates Pioneers of TAB Hall of Fame Outstanding Alumni Wall Tiles Lectureships College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Lectureships Back Morris Lectureship Buesseler Lectureship Giving College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Giving Back Give to the College Ways to Give Scholarships Research College of Media & Communication Research Back Research College of Media & Communication Research Research Back Research Home Research Areas Research Faculty Center for Communication Research College of Media & Communication Research Center for Communication Research Back Center for Communication Research Home Participation Staff Facilities Services Offered Outpost Social Media Lab College of Media & Communication Research Outpost Social Media Lab Back Outpost Social Media Lab Home About Insights Projects Resources HIHIC College of Media & Communication Research HIHIC Back HIHIC Home About Advisory Board Affiliates TTU International Film Series Useful Links Employment Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index