By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions In this Section Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit and Tour Apply Admissions Learn from the world’s finest scholars, researchers and innovators while charting a personalized pathway to your dream career. Establish meaningful relationships and make lifelong connections you’ll cherish. Choose the path that suits your needs. Study part time , full time, online or on campus. Explore a world of options to discover your strengths and pursue your passions Apply Now Undergraduate Link Whether you’re a first-year or transfer student and no matter where you’re from, you’ll find all the information here to get started on your journey. Your next step could be your biggest yet—we’re here to lend a hand. Graduate Link As a graduate student, you’ll work toward breakthroughs alongside faculty who are among the world’s finest researchers and scholars, all while creating lifelong professional relationships and advancing your career. Veterans and Military Link We’re grateful for your service and stand ready to assist you in making the transition from boots to books! Whether you’re looking to take courses part time, full time or online, we’ll help you find the flexibility you need to create the best path to your future. Online Link Academic excellence, flexible options, a vibrant community and a global alumni network help you succeed from your first class to your next job—and well beyond. Whatever your next move, we have the online programs and supportive community to help you succeed. Part Time Link You can do this! Get the degree you want, on a timeline that works for you. Syracuse loves part-time learners and we show it—with flexible formats and a supportive staff to guide you along the way. Find Yourself at Syracuse University Choose the path that suits your needs. Study part time , full time, online or on campus. Flexibility is key, and the support you need is all around you. Cost and Financial Aid What does Syracuse University tuition cost and how do you pay for it? Syracuse University awards nearly $400 million in financial aid each year. If you’re an admitted student with Orange dreams, we’ll do all we can to make your dream a reality, no matter what your circumstances. Visit and Tour Something special happens when you visit our beautiful, historic campus in the heart of New York state. Spend some time with us and feel the Orange vibe. Request Information Can’t find the information you’re looking for? Just ask us! We’re here to help. Apply Do you dream big? We do too, and if you’re ready to embark on a transformative college experience, this is right where you belong. Begin your application today! Also of Interest Link Syracuse Law Admissions Link To study the law is to join the ranks of some of the best minds in history—leaders, idealists, inventors, entrepreneurs, dreamers, agents of change, heroes. This is the tradition you enter at Syracuse Law. Summer at Syracuse Link Summer @ Syracuse isn’t just about traditional classes. There are also programs, institutes, and workshops for a wide range of students with varied interests. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy