COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Accounting, Minor MinorAccounting All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business School of Accountancy A minor in accounting from Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will equip you with basic accounting principles and practices essential for success in a wide range of careers—from banking and finance to entrepreneurship. The minor is a valuable asset to virtually any business or non-business degree. Learn how accounting is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Before you can take courses within the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program State-of-the-art building planned for business school Plans to build a new, state-of-the-art building for the Barton School of Business got a boost with a $10 million donation. Once built, the 136,000-square-foot complex will replace Clinton Hall, constructed in 1970. It will be designed to foster collaboration among students, faculty and partners in the business community, as well as provide students with more internship opportunities. Curriculum The minor in accounting is available to any non-accounting major and consists of 18 credit hours, including nine hours covering the basics of: business software financial accounting managerial accounting In addition, you’ll take nine credit hours of upper-division accounting courses. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives accounting students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers as: accountants and auditors credit analysts financial and tax examiners revenue agents Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Accounting Economics Finance Information Technology and Management Information Systems International Business 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©