Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Psychiatry Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Psychiatry Medication Management @ CAPS CAPS has two psychiatrists on staff that provide medication management, psychiatric assessment, and consultation to students located in RI as an adjunct to ongoing psychotherapy. They work in collaboration with other CAPS staff, and providers in Health Services as part of our broader mental health care network. Finding Care in the Community To find a community psychiatrist, you may look through your insurance network (through Brown Student Insurance or call the number on the back of your insurance card for referrals. There are also advertising portals like Zencare in some major cities and Psychology Today which covers the entire country and beyond. Students studying internationally may also get help accessing local care through International SOS, even if they are studying in their home country. The first step is to register your “trip” with International SOS and then contact them to request a psychiatrist near you. Meeting with a Psychiatrist @ CAPS CAPS has psychiatry as an adjunct to mental health support meetings or formal psychotherapy. This means that if you are struggling with your mental health, you should first schedule a meeting with a non-psychiatric staff member at CAPS. Once that process is established, if you need medication, the provider will make a referral to a CAPS psychiatrist for a medication assessment. Psychiatric Care @ Health Services If you are not interested in mental health support or psychotherapy as part of your care, but just want to explore medication options for mild-moderate depression or anxiety, please contact Health Services to meet with a provider there for a medication evaluation or adjustment. CAPS can also help connect you with psychiatrists in the community if preferred. For Students Currently on Medications If you are already on medications that have not been prescribed by a CAPS psychiatrist, and need them adjusted urgently, contact the person that prescribed them for you for that service. For Students with Off-Campus Counseling If you have a treatment provider off campus and want to meet with a CAPS psychiatrist, you have several options. The first is for your therapist to help you connect with a community psychiatrist that they recommend. Another would be to explore options at Health Services (see above). Another option is for your therapist to fill out our Psychiatrist Request Form to request a meeting with a CAPS psychiatrist. Our psychiatry staff review the requests and look for the best options available to help, and will suggest options to the therapist making the request. Psychiatrist Request Form Please fill out the document linked below. Providers are asked to sign the document before submitting. Email the completed form to [email protected]. Related Files Psychiatrist Request Form Welcome & Information Immediate and After Hours Care Psychiatry Outreach & Community Building Training Program Finding Care Off Campus Additional Resources Print this Page Share this Page Counseling & Psych Services Brown University Box 1960 450 Brook St Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-3476 Fax 401-863-3657 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory What's New? Current Groups Help a Distressed Student Self-Help Library