Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Community Involvement Community Involvement Inspired by what Benjamin Franklin called “an inclination...to serve mankind,” Penn weaves civic awareness and action into campus life. Barbara and Edward Netter Center for Community Partnerships The Netter Center is Penn’s central administrative office for community partnership programs, including academically based community service, direct traditional service, and community development. Office of Government and Community Affairs OGCA manages relationships with government and community leaders, advocates for policies and legislation consistent with the University’s goals, and shapes local engagement initiatives. Recruiting, training, and deploying nurse practitioners to underserved communities across the U.S. $125 million gift from Leonard A. Lauder to transform nursing care. Learn More Community Service Initiatives Community Service at Penn Programs and services that bring campus and community together. Academically Based Community Service Courses, internships, and other academic programs that incorporate community service into the curriculum. Civic House Penn’s community service hub, promoting student citizenship and outreach to the community. Penn Volunteers in Public Service Information for faculty and staff interested in participating in community service through Penn. Upward Bound and Veterans Upward Bound Programs that give precollege students a head start on higher education and veterans an opportunity to earn a college degree. Other Services and Initiatives Community Housing Information and services for prospective and current homeowners and renters. Penn Resources & Facilities Open to the Public A list of campus facilities and activities that are open to all. Community Involvement News ‘Young Quakers’ from West Philadelphia schools will compete in Penn Relays April 27, 2022 35th annual Women of Color at Penn award March 21, 2022 Improving college access for Philadelphia’s Latinx community February 16, 2022 Empowering community engagement through theory and practice January 6, 2022 More Community Involvement News Penn & Philadelphia Philadelphia—a historic city and vibrant cultural center—infuses Penn with the energy of urban life. Students, faculty, and staff enjoy cultural offerings that include museums and galleries, theater, dance, music, historical landmarks, and the cuisine of renowned chefs. To fulfill Penn’s commitment to local engagement—an important part of President Amy Gutmann’s Penn Compact 2022—Penn collaborates with local communities on many bold initiatives. Penn seeks to promote safe neighborhoods, attract and support area businesses, encourage homeownership, and improve public education. The Netter Center for Community Partnerships oversees a powerful array of projects and programs, with multiple initiatives to improve West Philadelphia education, including developing early childhood reading and math skills, raising interest in science, and bridging the digital divide. Other programs include Community Arts Partnership, which place an artist-in-residence in the West Philadelphia schools, supports after-school programs, and fund a Penn-West Philadelphia arts exchange called the Foundation. In the spirit of Penn's commitment to putting knowledge to use, many students, faculty, staff, and alumni contribute time to these initiatives. A broad range of undergraduate and graduate Academically Based Community Service courses combine intellectual learning with active involvement. 1 / 3 Previous Next Science-Fair Switcheroo 2 / 3 Previous Next Young Quaker Community Athletics Initiative 3 / 3 Previous Next BioEYES K-12 Science Education Program Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top