Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Sparking ideas. Igniting change. Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development Initiating real change Through bold research, innovative teaching and empowered community outreach, the nationally ranked Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development is a catalyst for discovery and innovation that transforms social conditions and advances human potential. With academic departments including Teaching and Learning; Dispute Resolution and Counseling; Education Policy and Leadership; Graduate Liberal Studies; and Applied Physiology and Wellness, the Simmons School sparks new perspectives, processes, outcomes and opportunities that produce global impact Also in Simmons School of Education and Human Development SMU Fund for Simmons Scholarships Innovative research West Dallas STEM School The Budd Center Endowment and estate gifts SMU Fund for Simmons Your gift to the SMU Fund for Simmons fuels our most urgent priorities and empowers our highest-impact initiatives. Contributing to the fund is an investment in education, allowing such initiatives as enhanced program and student opportunities, research and faculty grants, technology upgrades, leadership development and community outreach projects. Make a Gift Fuel the future Kindle scholarships Your scholarship support empowers Simmons to attract and compete for the very best and brightest students. Scholarships foster a diverse student population and help eliminate barriers for students wishing to pursue graduate education. Whether you choose to make a current-use gift, establish a named endowment or designate a planned gift, scholarship support is critical to student opportunity and success. Drive innovative research Through ongoing research projects and grant activity, Simmons faculty and graduate students advance and disseminate evidence-based knowledge that fuels improvements in education, leadership and applied physiology. Your contribution to Simmons research empowers the impactful and extensive work being done across the school’s disciplines. This includes exciting activity in our technology and innovation labs that focuses on the applications of augmented, virtual and mixed reality within teaching and learning. Also, initiatives such as the education and community program assessments conducted by the Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) drive positive and sustainable change in individuals, schools and communities. These, and a multitude of other research led by the Simmons School, result in significant journal publications, books and presentations at national and international colloquia and conferences. Support the Budd Center The Budd Center convenes schools, nonprofits and community leaders who aim to address the complex needs of children living in poverty in the under-resourced West Dallas community. Your support of the center drives the activities of The School Zone, a collective of neighborhood social service nonprofits, and fosters collaborative interventions that effectively and meaningfully impact the lives of the students they serve. Empower the West Dallas STEM School Invest with us in one of SMU’s most innovative education collaborations. Through the Simmons School’s partnership with the Toyota USA Foundation, Dallas ISD and the West Dallas community, the West Dallas STEM School sparks change in perceptions, communities and STEM education for the 21st century. Together, we are integrating community and business interests to empower robust postsecondary opportunities and career paths for students in West Dallas, North Texas – and beyond. The West Dallas STEM School The West Dallas STEM School, made possible by the Simmons School’s partnership with Toyota USA Foundation and Dallas ISD, opened in August 2021, energizing education and preparing students for bright futures. Forge a legacy As your current gifts support today’s greatest needs, your endowment or estate commitments energize the future of the Simmons School for generations to come. As an alum, parent or friend of the school, your legacy gifts provide lasting impact in your chosen program and research areas. Create a named, endowed fund in memory or honor of a person or organization with a gift of $100,000 or more. Empower faculty positions, scholarships, fellowships and excellence funds. Together we can align your passions with the Simmons School’s most pressing needs to do the most good. As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we have launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Help us build a brighter future Laura Madden Director of Development Simmons School of Education and Human Development lmadden@smu.edu or 214-768-4844 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search