Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Maps and directions About SMU / Maps and directions / SMU-in-Taos SMU-in-Taos View SMU in Taos in a larger map SMU-in-Taos, our campus at Fort Burgwin in northern New Mexico, offers a unique opportunity to earn academic credit and fulfill academic requirements while studying in a ruggedly beautiful environment far removed from regular campus life. Located in the Carson National Forest of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, Fort Burgwin lies near the juncture of two streams and is home to more than six different life zones supporting varied populations of plants and animals. Fort Burgwin is located south of Taos on Highway 518 between Ranchos de Taos and Penasco. A campus map is available by clicking here. From Taos Travel south on Highway 68, otherwise known as Paseo del Pueblo Sur, until you reach the Highway 518 junction. Turn east on Highway 518 toward Tres Ritos and Mora. Fort Burgwin is approximately eight miles from the 518 turnoff. The main campus will be on the west (right) side of the road. The main fort houses the administrative offices. Use caution if arriving at Fort Burgwin after sunset, as it is difficult to see the signage after dark. From Dallas Fort Burgwin is approximately 700 miles from Dallas. To get there, follow the directions given below. Pay particular attention to the speed limits in the towns between Amarillo and the New Mexico border. Starting at SMU, travel north on Central Expressway (US 75), toward Sherman. Exit onto Westbound LBJ Freeway (I-635), toward DFW Airport. Just north of the airport entrance, I-635 will end, merging you onto Highway 121. Immediately exit right (northwest) onto Highway 114. Stay on 114 until it intersects with US 81/287. Exit north onto 287, toward Decatur/Wichita Falls. Stay on US 287 through Wichita Falls, and head toward Amarillo. US 287 will end east of Amarillo, where it will intersect I-40. Take I-40 West through Amarillo into New Mexico. In Tucumcari, exit north onto Highway 104 toward Las Vegas, New Mexico. (Note: There are no gasoline stations between Tucumcari and Las Vegas on this route.) As you near Las Vegas, Highway 104 becomes NM 65. Stay on NM 65 as it crosses I-25, Commerce Street, and Grand. Turn right (north) onto 7th Street; 7th will turn into NM 518 outside the Las Vegas city limits. Head north on NM 518 toward Mora. Pass through Mora, Angostura, Tres Ritos, and Sipapu. Just past the intersection of NM 518 and NM 75 is US Hill. Fort Burgwin is over the hill, just past mile marker 65. The fort entrance is on the left, marked with low adobe walls. Use caution if arriving at Fort Burgwin after sunset, as it is difficult to see the signage after dark. The fort will be on the right as you enter campus. If you are visiting, please inquire at the main office before touring the campus. If you are a student arriving for check-in, proceed to the Dining Hall. To get to the Dining Hall: At the fork in the gravel road, veer left. Continue on the gravel road, crossing a small wooden bridge. Take the second right. The large adobe structure to the right is the Dining Hall, where check-in is held. Should you have car trouble or need additional assistance, call either the Fort Office, 505-758-8322, or the Dining Hall, 505-758-7180. One additional note: If using an Internet mapping program, Fort Burgwin's physical address does not register as a valid destination. Pot Creek or Talpa will most likely return valid directions. Keep in mind, however, that both are farther north on NM 518 than Fort Burgwin. Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"