COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Computer Science, Master's Master'sComputer Science All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing A Master of Science (MS) in computer science from Wichita State will prepare you for a high-paying, high-demand career—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Computer Science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Engineering students work together to help solve global issues during the "Invent for the Planet" event. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The program is open to bachelor’s degree holders in computer science, computer engineering or a related area. For consideration, you must have a minimum 3.0 GPA (or equivalent score from another country) in your bachelor's degree. Students whose bachelor’s degree is from an institution outside the U.S. are required to submit official scores of the GRE General Test along with the admission application. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students teach entry-level coding to next generation Computer science major Zane Storlie developed a three-unit curriculum teaching Scratch, an entry-level coding program, to elementary school students. Zane taught Scratch to fellow students, and together they're doing their part to fill the coder pipeline in the Wichita area. Curriculum The program combines study of the traditional areas of computer science and modern research trends. Courses are taught by nationally and internationally recognized faculty who are active researchers in the fields they teach. The program consists of at least 30 credit hours and offers three graduating options: thesis, project or coursework. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Computing (Master's) Electrical and Computer Engineering (Master's) Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (Graduate Certificate) Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©