Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Corporate Associates Program The Corporate Associates Program provides access, insight, and the competitive advantage your company needs to excel across the Americas and throughout the world. Home Recruiters & Companies Corporate Associates Program Miami Herbert is dedicated to shaping the corporate community by growing our corporate associates' prosperity. This program creates the pipeline you need to our top-tier students, thought leadership, and innovative programs. Depending on your company’s mission and goals, customizable resources are available to ensure we provide you with a program of value. Partnering with us provides a strong return on investment. For more information on the Corporate Associates Program, contact Orestes Hernandez at OrHernandez@miami.edu or call 305-978-7966. Associate Tiers The corporate community forms a vital part in enabling Miami Herbert to achieve its key initiatives of educating future business leaders and fostering a culture of teaching innovation and research. Becoming a Corporate Partner provides the opportunity for strategic partnership that ensures high level access to intellectual resources, including students, faculty, and research. Platinum Associates ($50,000 per year qualifying level) Annual Resources Brand Visibility Three (3) Social media / LinkedIn posts on company highlights “CAP of the Month” article feature highlighting your company and mission. Corporate logo listed at the top of the Corporate Associates Program plaques alongside Platinum members. Frames are displayed in three of Miami Herbert’s high traffic areas. Corporate logo on the Corporate Associates Program website alongside Platinum members. Events Two (2) Private pre or post Zoom meetings with Dean of Miami Herbert and/or fireside chat Speaker Invitation to annual CAP private networking event Two (2) thought leadership round tables VIP seating and reserved parking at all Distinguished Leaders Lecture Series events. Private meet and greet with the speaker preceding or following two lectures. Reserved parking. (When in-person events resume) Private meeting via zoom with the Dean and two faculty members in the discipline of your choice. Virtual Invitations to three briefings on the latest faculty research. Talent Acquisition Prime location on recruiter interview schedule; preferred access to top tier resumes of both undergraduate and graduate students. Invitation to CAP only event with Graduate Students Focus group led by students for social media strategy. Invitation to participate in Mock Interviews. Gold Associates ($25,000 per year qualifying level) Annual Resources Brand Visibility Two (2) Social media / LinkedIn post on company highlights. “CAP of the Month” article feature highlighting your company and mission. Corporate logo listed at the top of the Corporate Associates Program plaques alongside Gold members. Frames are displayed in three of Miami Herbert’s high traffic areas. Corporate logo on the Corporate Associates Program website alongside Gold members. Events One (1) Private pre- or post-Zoom meetings with Dean of Miami Herbert and/or fireside chat Speaker. Invitation to annual CAP private networking event. One (1) thought leadership round table. VIP seating and reserved parking at all Distinguished Leaders Lecture Series events. Private meet and greet with the speaker preceding or following one lecture. Reserved parking. (When in-person events resume). Invitations to two briefings on the latest faculty research. Talent Acquisition Prime location on recruiter interview schedule, preferred access to top-tier resumes of both undergraduate and graduate students. Invitation to CAP only event with Graduate Students. Focus group led by students for social media strategy. Invitation to participate in Mock Interviews. Silver Associates ($15,000 per year qualifying level) Annual Resources Brand Visibility One (1) Social media / LinkedIn post on company highlights. Corporate logo listed at the top of the Corporate Associates Program plaques alongside Silver members. Frames are displayed in three of Miami Herbert’s high traffic areas. Corporate logo on the Corporate Associates Program website alongside Silver members. Events Invitation to annual CAP private networking event. Invitation to CAP-only event with Graduate Students. Invitation to one briefing on the latest faculty research. Talent Acquisition Preferred location on recruiter interview schedule. Invitation to participate in Mock Interviews. Corporate Members As one of the top private research institutions in the nation, Miami Herbert is uniquely positioned to meet the needs of businesses. Partnering with us provides a strong return on investment. Platinum Associates Gold Associates Silver Associates Corporate Associates Spotlight Florida Blue A Q&A with Florida Blue’s Senior Director of Business Development and External Relations, Doug Bartel MBA’12. Read More Butters Construction & Development Butters Construction & Development is a privately held real estate firm, engaged in the construction, development, investment, property management and leasing of industrial, office, and retail properties. President Malcolm Butters, BBA’82, has been active in South Florida Real Estate for more than 30 years. Read More Related Group Established in 1979, Related Group is Florida’s leading developer of sophisticated metropolitan living and one of the country’s largest real estate conglomerates. Since its inception, the privately held company has built, rehabilitated, and managed more than 90,000 residences. Read More Burson Cohn & Wolfe (BCW) “We Move People. To act, to inspire, to change. We take an analytical approach to obsess over every detail, then add real emotion and creativity to connect with people’s lives and their communities.” This is the mission of Burson Cohn & Wolfe, known as BCW. Read More The Biltmore Hotel Corporate The Biltmore Hotel wasn’t always a hotel. It was built in 1926 by a young developer named George Merrick, also known as the father of Coral Gables. The hotel became a place to host glamorous fashion shows, galas, golf tournaments, and water shows in what was then the largest pool in the world. Learn More MasTec MasTec has been involved in some of the largest and most complex construction projects across North America and the Caribbean for more than 50 years. It is the largest wireless construction contractor in the United States and is at the forefront of implementing revolutionary 5G technology over the next several years. Read More Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Making financial lives better for individuals and organizations through the power of every connection: That is the mission of Bank of America. In 2009, the bank acquired Merrill Lynch, a merger that created a premier financial services franchise. Read More Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits, headquartered in Miami, is a hemispheric distribution powerhouse with over 22,000 employees operating in over 44 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Canada, and the Caribbean. This commitment to community is one reason why the company decided to become the Exclusive Sponsor of Miami Herbert’s Distinguished Leaders Lecture Series. Read More Visit Us Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Contact Us Orestes Hernandez, Philanthropy Officer, Corporate Sponsorships OrHernandez@miami.edu 305-978-7966 Social Media Visit LinkedIn Visit YouTube Visit Instagram Visit Twitter Visit Facebook Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback