Skip to main content Restrict my search to The Honors College Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards About Staff News & Events Publications with Undergraduate Co-Authors Contact Us OURMA Programs Action Research in Communities Program Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Mellon Research Scholars Program Houston Scholars Research for Aspiring Coogs in the Humanities Undergraduate Research Day Honors Thesis Fellowships Calendar of Deadlines Featured Scholarships Scholarship Search Scholar Profiles Research Resources Getting Started in Research Research Positions at UH Featured Research Opportunities Undergraduate Research Travel Fellowship Get Involved with Research COVID-19 Guidance for Undergraduate Researchers Faculty Resources Undergraduate Research Mentor Awards List Your Research Opportunity Poster and Easel Reservation UH Home The Honors College The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards OURMA Programs Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship OURMA Programs Houston Early Research Experience Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Mellon Research Scholars Program Action Research in Communities Program Research for Aspiring Coogs in the Humanities Program Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Program (PURS) The Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship (PURS) program provides undergraduate students with the opportunity to participate in a semester-long research project under the direction of a UH faculty mentor. Recipients will receive a $1,000 scholarship to conduct a one-semester research project with their faculty mentor. All full-time UH faculty members are eligible to participate as faculty sponsors. Apply here for the Fall 2022 PURS Program. Applications are due Monday, April 4 by 11:59pm. Please note that all PURS applicants must include a remote contingency plan as part of their application in the event that COVID-19 restrictions limit their access to campus and/or labs. Remote plans should include a communication plan with their faculty mentor, a proposed timeline and end-product, and discuss how the project may be adjusted if necessary. Campus Partners The programs supported through the Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards would not be possible without the financial support of: The Office of the Provost Division of Research The Honors College Visit our listing of other campus and community partners who have supported the PURS and SURF programs. Who is Eligible? Sophomores, juniors, and seniors from all majors who have at least a 3.0 GPA are eligible to apply. Applicants must have earned at least 30 credits by the beginning of the mentorship period (excluding credit hours earned during high school). Students must enroll in and maintain a minimum of 12 hours in the semester of the award unless they are students graduating that semester. Only University of Houston main campus students are eligible to apply. Students who have completed fewer than 12 hours in residence at UH must submit a transcript from the outside institution to verify the 3.0 GPA. Who is NOT Eligible? Students not attending the University of Houston main campus are ineligible. Previous PURS participants, graduate students and post-baccalaureate students NOT pursuing a second bachelor's degree are ineligible for PURS. Students may not enroll in a Senior Honors Thesis course or an independent study and receive a PURS scholarship in the same semester. How to Apply Students must complete the online PURS application, which requires: Statement of research objectives and goals (not to exceed 500 words) Information on your prior academic and research experience Name of the UH faculty mentor who will be providing a letter of recommendation The statement of research should be: Composed in consultation with the faculty sponsor Written in first person and in your own words — not in your faculty mentor's words Specific in stating the tasks to be accomplished during the semester program; scope and goals of the proposed research should be clearly defined, including the relative importance of the proposed research within its discipline Free of any errors in spelling, grammar or syntax The UH faculty mentor letter of recommendation should: Describe the student's qualifications Identify the area of research, creative or scholarly activities in which the mentor will engage the student Describe the faculty member's role as mentor to the student, including a description of how the proposed research relates to their on-going research Be submitted to Rikki Bettinger, Associate Director of OURMA It is the student's responsibility to inform the faculty mentor of the required letter which is due within the week of the application deadline. Competitive applications generally include: Demonstration of strong student academic record Research proposals in the student's own words that are clear, thorough, within the 500-word limit and free of errors in spelling, grammar and syntax Research proposals with clear, realistic goals that help the student focus and indicate that the project will lead to a substantive research experience for the student Descriptive and informative faculty letter of recommendation (1-2 pages in length), that specifically addresses the prospects for results in the projected time frame, the value of the research project and the ability of the student to undertake the project Please be aware this is a competitive program with finite funding, and the Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards receives many more strong proposals than it is able to fund. For this reason, UH faculty are encouraged to limit their submissions to 1-2 proposals for student projects. The staff of the Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards is unable to share specific information about the assessment of individual applications after the decisions have been made. Working with Human Subjects: If your research proposal includes working with human subjects, then you must receive approval from the University's Institutional Review Board (IRB) prior to initiating your research. Please reference the University's IRB policy before submitting your research proposal. Expectations/Workload Students admitted to the program must perform at least 6-7 hours of research a week/total of 100 hours per semester under guidance of a faculty member. Students are expected to attend the PURS orientation during the first week of the semester and complete three short reflection essays at the start, mid-point and end of the program; PURS students are encouraged to also develop a research poster for Undergraduate Research Day. PURS recipients' names, faculty mentors' names, research descriptions and possibly photos may be included in the annual Undergraduate Research Day booklet and in other online and print promotional materials, such as the office's website, brochure and social media accounts. Please contact Dr. Rikki Bettinger, Associate Director of OURMA, or Dr. Stuart Long, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Research and the Honors College, if you have any questions or if you require additional information. M.D. Anderson Library 4333 University Drive, Rm 212 Houston, TX 77204-2001 713.743.9010 voice 713.743.9015 fax 1.888.827.0366 (toll-free) honors@uh.edu Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Bookstore Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency Libraries President Social Media Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct Homeland Security TRAIL State of Texas ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies