Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Prospective Students Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact What's Local? About The UofM UofM Academics UofM Admissions Financial Aid Majors, Minors, and Concentrations Campus Life Scholarships Tuition Visiting The UofM Additional Resources Why Memphis? Virtual Tour Memphis Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus. Home What's Local? UofM Prospective Students What's Local? More Than Music and BBQ (but okay, the music and BBQ are cool.) Memphis' character is steeped in a rich history of diversity, creativity and commerce. From food to music to business, few cities can match Memphis' influence on modern culture. That desire to innovate has led to a recent renaissance of sorts. A rapidly growing tech-startup scene, an explosion of local food options, breweries, indie arts and film, and a wave of urban revitalization have swept up Memphians young and old, creating a can-do, will-do spirit where you genuinely feel like anything's possible. It's always been a great city, but now more than ever, Memphis is a city on the verge of greatness. Greenspace Bike, run or walk miles of greenlines, trails, parks and urban bike lanes in one of the nation's greenest cities. Sports Memphians live and breathe Tigers and NBA Grizzlies hoops, but Tiger fooball and baseball, along with AAA Redbirds baseball round out a full year's worth of sports. Museums The National Civil Rights Museum (history), Stax and Sun Studio (music), The Brooks and The Dixon (fine art), and The Pink Palace (eclectic weirdness) are just a few local faves. Music Find live music seven nights a week, including free Levitt Shell concerts and shows a Hi-Tone Cafe, Minglewood Hall, FedExForum and dozes of venues small and large. Food Festivals The Memphis in May World BBQ Championship is only the start. Local food fests celebrate everything from wings to crawfish to burgers and more. Nightlife Hit up weekend hotspots on the Highland Strip, Cooper-Young, Overton Square, Downtown, Broad Avenue, South Main Arts District and more. Festivals Local staples include Indie Memphis (film), Gonerfest (music), Cooper-Young Fest (everything), Memphis in May/Beale Street Music Festival and numerous local arts, music and cultural events. Touristy (but fun) Tour your new hometown starting with Beale Street, Graceland, Memphis Rock 'n' Soul Museum and the world's only Bass Pro Shops store in a pyramid. Looking for things to do in Memphis? Check out Choose 901 and the I Love Memphis! Blog for suggestions on the best places to eat, upcoming events, and the ultimate guides to Memphis! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.