Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor University Celebrates First Cohort of Trailblazer Scholars Baylor University's first cohort of Trailblazer Scholars pose with President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. (Matthew Minard, Baylor Marketing & Communications) Tweet Sept. 9, 2021 Media Contact: Eric Eckert, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-710-1964 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (Sept. 9, 2021) – Baylor University on Wednesday welcomed the inaugural cohort of 25 Trailblazer Scholars during a reception in the Barfield Drawing Room. The Trailblazer Scholars Program is a scholarship program designed to recognize the importance of fostering diversity and mutual respect at Baylor University. The program emerged as part of Baylor’s commitment to listen, learn and take actionable steps regarding racial healing and justice in America. The inaugural Gilbert-Walker cohort of Trailblazer Scholars is named after Baylor’s first Black graduates Rev. Robert Gilbert, BA '67, and Mrs. Barbara Walker, BA '67. “It was a pleasure to meet and recognize this remarkable group of students who represent both incoming first-year students and upper-level students who are committed to advancing racial equality, diversity and a sense of belonging on our campus,” said President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. “I’m thankful to the many Baylor alumni, friends and parents who have committed to giving to this program. I am grateful to the faculty and staff who prepared and planned for these students, our future leaders who will drive critically important conversations about how we as a Christian community foster diversity and practice mutual respect.” The University launched the program in July 2020 with an initial investment of $5 million in scholarship support. Since then, parents, alumni and friends have given an additional $2.2 million to support this important University priority. Students in the Trailblazer Scholars Program participate in leadership and service opportunities through Baylor’s Department of Multicultural Affairs and through other groups and programs on the University’s campus. Scholarship funds are awarded annually and are renewable to students who maintain a 2.5 GPA and are actively committed to conversations and initiatives advancing racial conciliation on Baylor’s campus and throughout the nation. Students in the inaugural Gilbert-Walker cohort are: Anu Agbi, junior, Houston, Texas, majoring in Neuroscience with a minor in Leadership Erin Babatunde, sophomore, Folcroft, Pennsylvania, majoring in Public Health Israel Beverly, sophomore, Beaumont, Texas, majoring in Public Health Maddie Brenner, freshman, Corpus Christi, Texas, majoring in Business Forche Bridges, senior, Fresno, Texas, majoring in Film & Digital Media with double minors in Creative Writing and Media Management Tiera Cleveland, senior, Jacksonville, Florida, majoring in Psychology Sophie Despres, freshman, Cypress, Texas, majoring in Pre-Nursing Sophie Geiger, freshman, Dallas, Texas, majoring in Pre-Nursing with a minor in Business Administration Morghan Golloher, freshman, Overland Park, Kansas, majoring in Medical Humanities and minoring in Business Administration Simone Henry, freshman, Katy, Texas, majoring in Neuroscience Logan Jackson, sophomore, Fairview, Texas, majoring in Psychology Victoria Jackson, freshman, Grand Prairie, Texas, majoring in Business Entrepreneurship with a minor in Apparel Merchandising Eric Jaramillo, freshman, Corpus Christi, Texas, majoring in Biology Peyton Johnson, freshman, Lantana, Texas, double majoring in Physics and Chemistry with a minor in Mathematics Berg Guillaume Jones, freshman, Dallas, Texas, majoring in Neuroscience with a minor in either French or Leadership Dalshawn Jones, senior, New Orleans, Louisiana, majoring in Sociology with a minor in International Studies Connie Mendoza, senior, McGregor, Texas, majoring in Communication Sciences and Disorders Stephanie Mendoza, junior, Waco, Texas, majoring in Accounting Hailey Minn, freshman, Frisco, Texas, majoring in Business Sam Onilenla, senior, Aurora, Colorado, majoring in Management and Marketing Ana Robles, freshman, Maui, Hawaii, majoring in Pre-Med Biology with a minor in Child Development Lydia Samuel, junior, Dallas, Texas, majoring in Nursing Genesis Santos, freshman, Waco, Texas, majoring in Elementary Education Makayla Williams, freshman, Humble, Texas, majoring in Professional Writing and Rhetoric and minoring in Corporate Communications Lauren Young, junior, Atlanta, Georgia, majoring in Biology and minoring in French More information about how to support the Trailblazer Scholars Program is available on the giving website. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 19,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena