Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Conducting and Large Ensembles Achieve instrumental performance excellence as a professional choral, wind or orchestra conductor or educator. Refine your conducting skills with an academic focus on advanced score study, verbal and non-verbal communication and leadership skills. This program is available in two tracks – Master of Music and Doctor of Musical Arts – with each track divided into three concentrations: choral, orchestral and wind/band conducting. The art of conducting is best learned through experiential means. You’ll receive hands-on experiences leading a variety of ensembles from the stage and under the mentorship of renowned faculty and guest clinicians. Conducting students work one-on-one with all conducting faculty (choral, orchestral, wind band) in an effort to broaden understanding of the art and craft of conducting across many different types of ensembles. Within our NASM-accredited program, practical experience is gained through generous podium time in the rehearsal process and in concerts. Students also enjoy exposure to and collaboration with an extensive network of professional musicians, both nationally and internationally. You will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities, and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students, and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists that will broaden your experience. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to plug into a vibrant music city. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Conducting auditions are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must audition. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Conducting auditions are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must audition. What degrees do we offer? Master of Music in Conducting Designed for experienced conductors seeking to hone their skills through an immersive experience in all aspects in the art of conducting. Our programs combine the rigorous study of conducting techniques and literature with related work in performance, music theory, and musicology in a vibrant and intimate setting, all within a major research university. The conducting program provides training for graduate students who intend to become professional conductors, along with courses to develop the skills and sensitivities required for many musical disciplines. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes Conducting students will acquire mastery in conducting ensembles of all sizes to effectively share an artistic vision Conducting students will create a cohesive, well-researched and creative performance for your ensembles. Conducting students will develop effective rehearsal techniques which includes the ability to diagnose and correct problems in any ensemble, including pitch, rhythm, balance, intonation, diction, and style. Conducting students will gain a strong command of ensemble leadership through a combination of gestural vocabulary, strong baton technique, and effective verbal skills (this occurs in several places. We’ll need to edit all of them). Map out your master's experience! View the Master of Music in Conducting sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Accelerated MM-to-DMA in Conducting Students who wish to continue from the MM into a DMA program of the same concentration have the option, with the audition and approval of the major professor, of following an accelerated track. This four-year track can save you two semesters of coursework compared to the traditional five-year MM to DMA path. You will earn your MM degree after the fourth semester of study. Our programs combine rigorous study of conducting techniques and literature with related work in performance, music theory, and musicology in a vibrant and intimate setting, all within a major research university. Students are prepared to enter the profession as highly qualified teachers with the potential for long-term professional success. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available. Outcomes: Conducting students will acquire mastery in conducting ensembles of all sizes to effectively share an artistic vision Conducting students will create a cohesive, well-researched and creative performance for your ensembles. Conducting students will develop effective rehearsal techniques which includes the ability to diagnose and correct problems in any ensemble, including pitch, rhythm, balance, intonation, diction, and style. Conducting students will gain a strong command of your fellow musicians through a combination of gestural vocabulary, strong baton technique, and effective verbal skills View the Accelerated MM-to-DMA in Conducting sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Doctor of Musical Arts in Conducting Designed for students seeking the highest degree in the field, the D.M.A. is a rigorous three-year course of study culminating in a doctoral dissertation. Designed for conductors who have already reached a high level of proficiency and artistry in their fields and who may wish to teach at the university level. This program offers you an opportunity to bring creative and performance achievement to a high level while enriching individual backgrounds with academic studies, including specialized training in music history and theory, and other areas. Graduate student composers work closely with faculty in composition and music theory, and are expected to compose major works for public performance in addition to fulfilling course requirements. Our programs combine rigorous study of conducting techniques and literature with related work in performance, music theory, and musicology in a vibrant and intimate setting, all within a major research university. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available. Outcomes: Conducting students will acquire mastery in conducting ensembles of all sizes to effectively share an artistic vision Conducting students will create a cohesive, well-researched and creative performance for your ensembles. Conducting students will develop effective rehearsal techniques which include the ability to diagnose and correct problems in any ensemble, including pitch, rhythm, balance, intonation, diction, and style. Conducting students will gain a strong command of your fellow musicians through a combination of gestural vocabulary, strong baton technique, and effective verbal skills Conducting students will demonstrate the technical mastery and musical expertise requisite to having a significant professional career in their chosen area of performance. Conducting students will demonstrate historical and theoretical knowledge supportive of the development of individualized interpretations within a full range of musical styles. Conducting students will display a thorough understanding of the history of their conducting medium and comprehensive knowledge of the repertoire and literature specific to the area of specialization. Map out your doctoral experience! View the Doctor of Musical Arts in Conducting sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Artist Diploma in Conducting The Artist Diploma is a two-year program for gifted performers who are looking for advanced conducting studies without the additional academic demands required in a Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA) or Ph.D. program. Applicants must have already earned a master's degree. This program is limited to the most advanced instrumentalists, vocalists, and conductors, who are in the beginning stages of professional careers as performers. Working closely with a faculty mentor, you'll supplement your existing qualifications with a selection of graduate-level music courses and performance experience with School of Music ensembles. Outcomes: Conducting students will demonstrate the technical mastery and musical expertise requisite to having a significant professional career in their chosen area of performance. Conducting students will demonstrate historical and theoretical knowledge supportive of the development of individualized interpretations within a full range of musical styles. Conducting students will display a thorough understanding of the history of their conducting medium and comprehensive knowledge of the repertoire and literature specific to the area of specialization. Map out your Artist Diploma experience! View the Artist Diploma in Conducting sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success Wes King (DMA '21) Director of Bands, University of Findlay, Findlay, Ohio. Jon Nash (DMA '20) Associate Director of Bands, Arkansas Tech University, Russellville, Arkansas Brian Hodge (MM '14, DMA '18) Assistant Professor and Director of Bands, East Stroudsburg University of Pennsylvania Kevin Sütterlin (DMA '17) Assistant Professor, Instrumental Conducting; Director of Orchestral Activities; Conductor, The Concordia Orchestra and Concordia Opera, Concordia College, Moorhead, Minnesota. Mathias Elmer (DMA '17) Director of Orchestral Activities, Connecticut College, New London, CT Fredrick Brown (MM '15) Director of Bands, Lyon College, Batesville, Arkansas. Quintus Wrighten (DMA '12) Instructor/ Assistant Director of Bands; Associate Director of Athletic Bands, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.