Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Special Collections Preserving the Past for the Future SMU Libraries Special Collections & Archives Bridwell Library Strengths and current collecting interests focus on Bibles, Reformation and Counter-Reformation, church history, theology, popular devotion and popular piety, Methodist materials, archival documents, and the book arts (fine press imprints, artists’ books, livres d’artiste, and miniature books). Of special note are incunables, books printed in Europe with moveable type before 1501. It is also one of the most significant collections of Wesleyana in the United States with a major repository of Wesley letters. More Information | Using the Collections | Finding Aids | Digital Collections | Online Exhibits | News Bywaters Special Collections Bywaters Specials Collections is a repository for work of art on paper and archival materials illuminating aspects of the history of the visual and performing arts in the United States, especially the Southwest; concentration is on the first half of the 20th century, with supporting materials from the mid-20th century. The mission is to preserve, protect, acquire, and disseminate these holdings to the SMU community, general public and scholars through research, exhibitions and publications. More Information | Using the Collections | Digital Collections | Online Exhibits | Research Guide DeGolyer Library The DeGolyer Library is the principal repository at SMU for special collections in the humanities, the history of business, and the history of science and technology. Its rare books, manuscripts, photographs, maps, and other materials are available to all SMU students, faculty, visiting scholars, and other researchers. DeGolyer Library’s holdings of primary sources are complemented by exhibitions, lectures, publications, and other programs. More Information | Using the Collections | Finding Aids | Digital Collections | Online Exhibits | News Foscue Map Library Located in Fondren Library, the Foscue Map Library is one of the preeminent collections of cartographic resources in the American Southwest. It supports the key disciplines of geology, archaeology and anthropology, history, sociology, political science, and environmental science. Digital Collections G. William Jones Film and Video Collection The G. William Jones Film & Video Collection supports instruction and research in the Meadows School of the Arts, the Southern Methodist University, and the global moving image preservation and research community. The Collection’s primary purpose is to support education through the study, preservation, and presentation of moving images. More Information | Using the Collections | Digital Collections Underwood Law Library Special Collections Part of the Dedman School of Law, SMU’s Underwood Law Library is the largest private academic law library west of the Mississippi River. Its collections include approximately 662,465 law-related volumes and equivalents, ranking the library among the top 20% of law libraries in the United States. Special Collections include the DISD Desegregation Litigation Archives and Dedman School of Law Archives, among others. More Information | Digital Collections Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share