Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Mindful Yoga Events Past Event Mindful Yoga Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 4, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:30 PM America/New_York Online As we step into Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM) during the month of April, SVR invites the community to engage in a movement and mindfulness practice that you can return to over the course of the month and beyond. Join us as NYC-based Yoga Teacher and Trainer, Matty Espino, walks us through breathwork and mindful movement, flowing and holding shapes over the course of 90-minutes. This session will emphasize techniques on staying grounded and feeling empowered, which participants can take with them on their day-to-day. No props needed, all levels welcome, and please come (to the Webinar) as you are. All members of the Columbia community are welcome. Please register on Zoom and join us. About Matty Espino: Matty Espino (He/Him) is an NYC-based certified yoga teacher and trainer. With over 800+ hours of training under his belt, Matty has developed a deep understanding of yoga, anatomy, and the nervous system. As a teacher, he aims to cultivate a space that is warm, welcoming, and filled with the invitation to do you. You do not have to subscribe to any notion of what a yogi is supposed to be or look like but are encouraged to march to the unique beat of your own drum. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close