Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Seton Hall University Campus News Thursday, May 26, 2022 Library Professors Publish with Two Diplomacy Students Professors Chelsea Barrett and Brooke Duffy collaborated with two School of Diplomacy undergraduates, Dia Bolton, ’22, and Akaysha Palmer, ’22, to publish a book chapter. Thursday, May 26, 2022 FNA Assists National Security Fellowship Seton Hall’s National Security Fellowship develops an operational paper with recommendations for a federal agency, annually, and was supported by FNA technology for the first time. Thursday, May 26, 2022 Diplomacy Faculty Receive Three University Awards This year, three professors from the School of Diplomacy and International Relations received awards highlighting their achievements – Professors Huang, de Silva, and Murphy. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Buccino Institute Graduates Inaugural Class The Buccino Leadership Institute, created in 2018, graduated its inaugural class of student leaders. The Class of 2022 completed four years of intense, interdisciplinary leadership development. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 PSEG CISO Delivers Lecture on Cybersecurity Gurdeep Kaur, Chief Information Security Officer at PSEG, provided an overview of the cybersecurity field, trends and career opportunities during the 2022 Petersheim Academic Exposition. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Buccino Leaders Learn from Dr. Adubato For the third year in a row, Dr. Steve Adubato taught a master class on communication for leaders in the Buccino Leadership Institute. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 WSOU Wins New York Press Club Award The New York Press Club has announced that WSOU 89.5 FM is a winner in the category of "Political Coverage NYC Metro – Radio" for its 2021 Election night coverage. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Psychology Honor Society Inducts New Members The Department of Psychology inducted 33 Seton Hall University undergraduate students into its chapter of Psi Chi, the International Honor Society in Psychology, among other award presentations. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Brownson Debate Team Showcase Research Three Seton Hall undergraduate students were able to present their research in rhetorical criticism earlier this month, on April 9th at Felician Undergraduate Research Conference in Lodi, New Jersey. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Celebrating the Class of 2022 The Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency António Guterres, delivered the address at Seton Hall's 166th baccalaureate commencement. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 EDST Faculty Speaks Remotely to Teachers in El Salvador Educational Studies faculty member Dr. Bryan Meadows spoke remotely with audiences in El Salvador on May 13th as part of the Teachers Up professional development series. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Diplomacy Alumna Runs for Hawaii State Legislature Diplomacy alumna Shaira G. Taylor, MS '21, is running for Hawaii's state legislature after her graduation from the Executive MS in International Affairs program. View more Campus News IN THE MEDIA Lessons From Business School From Our Best & Brightest Graduates Poets&Quants for Undergrads The Collateral Damage in China`s COVID War Opinion: China Is Falling Deeper Into a Zero-Covid Trap Barron’s/MarketWatch Titus Brandsma was killed in a Nazi death camp. This Sunday, Pope Francis will make him a saint. View More Media UPCOMING EVENTS Jun 1 A Contemporary Spin Jun 1 Intersession A Jun 1 Session I View All Events NEWS CATEGORIES Alumni Arts and Culture Athletics Business Campus Life Education Faith and Service Health and Medicine Law Nation and World Research Science and Technology SETON HALL MAGAZINE Read the Fall 2021 Issue » Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top