Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Events Calendar Events Calendar Spring 2022 FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC - a fireside chat with Clint Smith on April 15th at 7pm in the Allen Theatre at the SUB. Clint Smith is the award-winning author of How the Word Was Passed: A Reckoning with the History of Slavery Across America. https://www.clintsmithiii.com Join us NEXT WEEK, March 7th, 2022, for the third event of our Spring 2022 lecture series, "OPEN!" Monday's lecture titled, "DESIGN IS CEREMONY" will be led in-person by CHRIS CORNELIUS. Chris Cornelius is a citizen of the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin and Chair of the Department of Architecture at The University of New Mexico School of Architecture and Planning. He is the founding principal of studio:indigenous, a design practice serving Indigenous clients. "DESIGN IS CEREMONY" will be led and held in-person! We encourage all students and faculty to attend. This event will be held in the Gallery on the ground floor of the CoA. Should seating run out or for those attending virtually, the lecture can be viewed from anywhere via phone, tablet, or laptop by downloading the Zoom app. Zoom information for this lecture will be sent prior to the event. Please contact Event Coordinator, Rachel Roe at rachel.roe@ttu.edu should you have any additional questions. For more information visit, Lecture Series | College of Architecture. Fall 2021 Please join us for the next Feminist First Friday on November 5, 2021 from 12:00 to 1:00 pm! In honor of Indigenous Peoples' Month and in collaboration with the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, please join us welcoming Marisa Cummings, CEO/President of Minnesota Indian Women's Resource Center. The Minnesota Indian Women's Resource Center (MIWRC) is a non-profit social and educational services organization committed to the holistic growth and development of American Indian women and their families. Founded in 1984, MIWRC provides a broad range of programs designed to educate and empower American Indian women and their families, and to inform and assist those who work providing services to the community. Marisa holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in American Studies from the University of Iowa and a certificate in American Indian/Native Studies and a minor in African American World Studies. She recently earned her Master's in Tribal Administration and Governance from the University of Minnesota Duluth. Prior to accepting this appointment Marisa served as the Director of Native Student Services at the University of South Dakota. She has also served as the Chief of Tribal Operations for the Omaha Tribe of Nebraska and Iowa. Marisa has worked in higher education for over 15 years and is dedicated to indigenous models of governance, education, food systems, ceremonies, and sovereignty. She studies and teaches knowledge rooted in matriarchy and advocates for dismantling systems of oppression that impact our Native communities, including resource extraction and personal violence. Register in advance for this meeting: Register After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. TTU University Libraries invite you to the Fall 2021 Book Club featuring, "Living for Change: An Autobiography: Grace Lee Boggs." The Book Club will take place on Mondays (5:30-7:00) via Zoom: October 11, October 18, October 25, and November 8. For information locating book club materials, speaker information, electronic zoom meetings, and more visit, https://guides.library.ttu.edu/livingforchangegraceleeboggsbookclubfall2021. Opening--Book Read Session I 10/11/2021 Topic: Living for Change: An Autobiography-- Session I Time: October 11, 2021, 05:30 pm Central Time (the US and Canada) You are invited to a Zoom meeting. When: October 11, 2021, 05:30 pm Central Time (US and Canada) Register in advance for this meeting: Register After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. Book Read-Session II 10/18/2021 Topic: Living for Change: An Autobiography-- Session II You are invited to a Zoom meeting. When: October 18, 2021, 05:30 pm Central Time (the US and Canada) Register in advance for this meeting: Register After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. Book Read-Session III 10/25//2021 Topic: Living for Change: An Autobiography-- Session III Time: March 1, 2021, 05:30 pm Central Time (US and Canada) Join Zoom Meeting https://zoom.us/j/95677868018 Meeting ID: 956 7786 8018 Book Read-Session IV 11/1/2021 Topic: Living for Change: An Autobiography-- IV Time: March 8, 2021, 05:30 pm Central Time (US and Canada) Join Zoom Meeting https://zoom.us/j/99515468195 Meeting ID: 995 1546 8195 The Virtual Gender & Sexual Identities Colloquium will be on Friday, October 15th at the end of PRIDE Week. Since 1994, October is nationally recognized as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual (LGBTQIA) History Month. Keeping with the spirit of this month as an educational platform, we decided to highlight research topics centered around gender & sexual identities. REGISTER FOR ZOOM: http://lyris.ttu.edu/t/52961946/22942924/349051/1001/ Keynote: Dr. Stevie Berberick For additional information visit, http://lyris.ttu.edu/t/52961946/22942924/349052/3001/ Spring 2021 On Thursday, March 25, from 6-7:45pm CT (Zoom), the TTU Department of History—Committee on Diversity & Engagement, Honors College, Humanities Center, Vernacular Music Center, and College of Visual & Performing Arts present USC Thornton School of Music's trumpeter/scholar Dr. Ron McCurdy's LANGSTON HUGHES PROJECT, a virtual words / music /film multimedia event celebrating Hughes' kaleidoscopic Jazz poem suite, “Ask Your Mama: 12 Moods for Jazz.” The performance links Hughes' poetry with live jazz performance, recreating a magical moment bridging the Harlem Renaissance and the watershed Black Arts performance explosion of the twentieth century. Panelists: Dr. Ron McCurdy (USC), Dr. Jacqueline Henninger (TTU), and Domonique Murphy (TTU) Admission is free but requires advance registration. Contact Dr. Miguel Levario (miguel.levario@ttu.edu) for more information. You are invited to a Zoom webinar. When: Mar 25, 2021 06:00 PM Central Time (US and Canada) Topic: The Langston Hughes Project Please click the link below to register for the webinar https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_-KOVh4m4TtCsGUThGK8RAg 6th Hispanic/Latinx Research & Creativity Symposium (Virtual) Thursday, April 22, 2021 The call for proposals – please submit proposals to Gabriel Dominguez Partida at gabriel.partida@ttu.edu. Al otro lado del río: Stories of the borderlands Wednesday, March 24, 2021 11 pm CST FREE / Virtual Event Open to Students, Faculty & Staff Please contact Gabriel Dominguez Partida to obtain Zoom credentials for the event: gabriel.partida@ttu.edu. Reimagining Citizenship: Prospects for Immigration Reform During the Biden Administration Thursday, February 11, 2021 11am CST / 12pm ET FREE / Virtual Event Open to Students, Faculty & Staff Register Here Advancing Equity for Undocumented Students and Students from Mixed-Status Families at the University of California Tuesday, February 16, 2021 2pm CST / 3pm ET FREE / Virtual Event Open to Students, Faculty, & Staff Register Here Ella Baker and the Black Freedom Movement: A Radical Democratic Vision Book - A Book Read Book Read Session I - 2/15/2021 Book Read-Session II - 2/22/2021 Book Read-Session III - 3/1/2021 Book Read-Session IV - 3/8/2021 Register How to Be an Anti-Racist by Ibram X. Kendi Guided Book Discussion Please join us for a guided discussion of Ibram X. Kendi's How To Be An Antiracist, hosted by Texas Tech University's Office of Institutional Diversity and Raider Education, in partnership with Talent Development. To register, please RSVP via Cornerstone, email maclay.buie@ttu.edu or call 806-834-5238. The Zoom meeting link will be sent to those that are registered the week of the meeting. Limited books available through the Office of Institutional Diversity, email diversity@ttu.edu for further information Fall 2020 Black Women in The Academy Discussion & Recognition Thursday, October 22, 2020 2:00 p.m. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 28, 2022 1:34 PM Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Back About the Division Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About About the Division Back Meet our Team Faculty & Staff College Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About College Students Back You Belong Here Contact Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Contact Back Contact Us Report A Bias Incident Divisional Units & Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Programs & Services Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back AVID First Year Experience Mentor Tech Military & Veterans Programs First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) TTU Chess Program McNair Scholars Program TRIO - Student Support Services University Interscholastic League Raider Education Department (RED) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) Women & Gender Studies Centers and Offices Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Black Cultural Center College Connect Dream Resource Center Office of Institutional Diversity Office of LGBTQIA Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back President's Council on Diversity & Equity RAISE Committee (formerly Hispanic Serving Institution) Alumni Community Heritage & Culture Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Heritage Months Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Heritage Month Fall Pride Week Indigenous People's Heritage Month International Education Week Black History Month Women’s HERstory Month Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi, & Arab Heritage Month MLK Celebration 2022 Diversity Week Culture Celebrations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back El Grito Juneteenth African American Lecture Series Latino Hispanic Lecture Series Graduation Celebrations and Convocations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Black Convocation Hispanic Convocation Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi & Arab (APIDA) Convocation Lavender Graduation MVP Stole & Recognition Ceremony Hispanic Serving Institution Week Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Serving Institution Week Resources Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Resources & Publications Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Camps Support – COVID-19 Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources Inclusive Election Support Resources DACA Resources Publications & Reports The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty Inclusive Language Terminology Funding Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Scholarships Multicultural Student Scholarships Awards Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Accolades and Recognition Spotlighting Award Winners Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet Diversity & Equity Awards Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back K-12 Academic Areas of Inclusion Raiders Rojos Family Support-COVID-19 News & Events Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Back News Events Calendar Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Events Calendar Back TTU Men of Color Initiative - "The Chat" Culture Fest 2020 Black Women in The Academy Discussion & Recognition Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet 2020 Spring Faculty Search Committee Workshop Women's History Month - Juju Chang Hispanic Serving Institution Week Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index