Return to Content Search Content: Events Events Calendar Past Events and Webinars Medical Alumni Weekend 2022 Communities Alumni Awards Alumni Leadership Class Pages Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Families Penn Medicine Black Alumni Society Women in Medicine PSOM Houses Learn & Network Penn Medicine in the News MyPenn Community Pulse Newsletter Past Events and Webinars Social Networks The Dish Penn Libraries - Alumni Access Alumni Mentorship Program PennHealthX Volunteer Reunion Committees HOST Program Alumni Mentorship Program Mobile Volunteer Portal (MVP) Support About Giving Types of Giving Giving Societies Give Now! About Contact Us Leadership Links of Interest Facts and Figures History of Penn Medicine Remembering the 250th Celebration Penn Medicine Home QuakerNet Give to the Perelman School of Medicine Admin Login Menu Give Today! Search Content: Events Events Calendar Past Events and Webinars Medical Alumni Weekend 2022 Communities Alumni Awards Alumni Leadership Class Pages Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Families Penn Medicine Black Alumni Society Women in Medicine PSOM Houses Learn & Network Penn Medicine in the News MyPenn Community Pulse Newsletter Past Events and Webinars Social Networks The Dish Penn Libraries - Alumni Access Alumni Mentorship Program PennHealthX Volunteer Reunion Committees HOST Program Alumni Mentorship Program Mobile Volunteer Portal (MVP) Support About Giving Types of Giving Giving Societies Give Now! About Contact Us Leadership Links of Interest Facts and Figures History of Penn Medicine Remembering the 250th Celebration A Beacon of Hope: Penn Medicine's New Pavilion The new Pavilion at Penn Medicine is one of the most state-of-the-art patient care facilities in the world. Raymond and Ruth Perelman School of Medicine Support Penn Medicine Today Leading the way to a healthier world. Alumni Events: Join in the Fun! Check the Calendar of Events to see what great Penn Medicine Alumni events are coming up! Henry A. Jordan, M'62 Center for Medical Education Learn more about the new home of the Perelman School of Medicine. The Penn Medicine Pulse View all news Announcing the Perelman School of Medicine 2022 Teaching Award Recipients From awards that honor exceptional mentorship, to those recognizing clinical teaching excellence by faculty, residents, and staff alike, the Perelman School of Medicine annually celebrates those who are committed to ensuring our students receive a world-class education. Medical Alumni Weekend Welcoming Alumna Vanessa Northington Gamble, M’78, G’84, GR’87, to Penn Medicine as our Commencement Speaker Each year, Medical Alumni Weekend culminates with the celebration of Commencement as another class of exceptional PSOM students join the ranks of our alumni. We are privileged this year to welcome back to Penn as Commencement Speaker Vanessa Northington Gamble, M’78, G’84, GR’87. Introduction by Senior Vice Dean for Medical Education Suzi Rose, MD, MSEd Welcome to the March 2022 issue of Pulse. Here on campus, our thoughts have turned to the future as we celebrated a milestone long-awaited: a return to in-person Match Day festivities. We were overjoyed to witness the next chapter of the class of 2022’s careers unfold in the Jordan Medical Education Center, all together. PSOM Students Come Together in Support of Ukraine The invasion of Ukraine has marshalled Penn’s powerful sense of solidarity to help communities who are suffering, near or far. It is no surprise that students at the Perelman School of Medicine have raised their hands to come together in support of Ukraine—from organizing medical supplies, to raising funds for relief campaigns. Find Yourself in a Story Stories told and stories listened to are integral to healthcare— in the conversation between doctor and patient, the family meeting, the clinical consult, and more. This spring, each PSOM student received their own copy of a new collection of stories: a compilation of personal experiences recorded for the Penn Medicine Listening Lab by patients, caregivers, staff, and providers at the front lines of caregiving. Calendar of Events View all events Quick Links Find a Physician Calendar Contact Us Update Your Contact Info Penn Medicine Home Shop Find Alumni on MyPenn Community Search for fellow classmates & update your contact details. Log in to MyPenn University of Pennsylvania - Perelman School of Medicine Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania | University of Pennsylvania Health System | University of Pennsylvania © 2014 Penn Medicine Alumni. All Rights Reserved. Give Today! Events Communities Learn & Network Volunteer Support About Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram