Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Arts and Humanities Date July 14, 2021 2021-07-14 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history The Class of 2021 graduate is working with Rhode Island’s Tomaquag Museum to index 1930s issues of a Native American magazine that sheds light on the lives of Indigenous people in New England and beyond. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — For nearly a century, issues of the Narragansett Dawn — a monthly magazine containing valuable historical information and unique insights into 20th-century Native American life — have been hiding in plain sight. Most issues of the Dawn, published by two members of the Narragansett Tribe in 1935 and 1936, are available on the University of Rhode Island’s digital commons website — but they are without critical metadata that help scholars find information with search terms and keywords. Others sit in boxes, waiting to be digitized, in the archive of the Tomaquag Museum, an Indigenous history, culture and arts museum in Exeter, Rhode Island. This summer, Halle Bryant, a Class of 2021 Brown graduate, is working with Tomaquag Museum staff to bring the Dawn’s important contents out of the shadows. “It seems like the Dawn originated as a way for members of the Narragansett tribal community to connect and stay up to date,” Bryant said. “But you can see that over the course of two years, it quickly grew to include regular columns and insight from Native Americans across New England and the country. It speaks not only to the history, traditions, food practices and news of the Narragansett Tribe but also to the larger story of Native American dispossession and Native Americans’ relationship with the natural environment, which is really valuable.” Bryant, who earned a dual degree in applied math and Africana studies in May, is spending her first post-graduation summer reading and indexing every issue of the periodical, which each month collected news, stories and poetry by, for and about Native Americans in Rhode Island and beyond. (An early edition read: “The Narragansett Dawn is the speaking leaves of the tribe... Here you will find our work, our pleasures, our social activities, our life, history, traditions, signs and tongue.”) By the end of the summer, Bryant will have read every word of every issue of the Dawn, and she’ll have created a comprehensive catalog of names, dates and places mentioned in the text, as well as related themes and keywords. Ultimately, her work will make it easier for students, faculty and the general public to find and cite information contained in the publication, deepening scholarly and public understanding of Native American history and everyday life. “There’s so much knowledge contained in these archives, and there’s so much research that could be done with it, that it’s almost overwhelming to think about,” Bryant said. “At the end of the summer, I will be one of only a few living people who have read every issue. But hopefully that will change as more people become aware of this resource and gain access to it.” 1 of 3 The Dawn was edited by Princess Red Wing, a Narragansett and Wampanoag elder and historian, and Ernest Hazard, a member of the Narragansett Tribe. 2 of 3 According to Lorén Spears, executive director of the Tomaquag Museum, the Dawn brought Indigenous stories and perspectives to the fore at a time when Native American history was at best ignored and at worst deliberately erased from the public record. 3 of 3 Some back issues of the Dawn are only available to view in person in the Tomaquag Museum's archives, managed by Anthony Belz, pictured here with Bryant. A window into the maritime past Bryant’s work is part of an expansive collaborative project spearheaded by Brown’s Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice, Williams College and the Mystic Seaport Museum. Funded by a $4.9 million grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the project uses maritime history as a basis for studying the relationship between European colonization, dispossession of Native American land and racial slavery in the United States. The Dawn repeatedly highlights the Narragansett Tribe’s close relationship with Rhode Island’s waterways and describes the ways in which that relationship changed following European colonization. An August 1935 piece detailed how European colonization along the Pettaquamscutt River and Narragansett Bay drove tribal members inland, transforming them from year-round wanderers to part-time settlers. A 1936 edition included an obituary of Samuel Mingo, who was born on Narragansett lands and later became famous for his round-the-world whaling expeditions. The opening lines of an early edition, penned by Narragansett and Wampanoag elder and historian Princess Red Wing, read, “Come with me for two minutes, to the banks of the Narragansett Bay, to the home of my ancestors long before the white men came.” Thanks to Bryant’s indexing work, much of the Dawn’s history and news could soon make its way into scholarship by Brown University and Williams College researchers and exhibits at the Tomaquag and Mystic Seaport museums. But the work’s value will endure beyond the immediate future, said Lorén Spears, executive director of the Tomaquag Museum. “There is a vast quantity of historical 19th- and 20th-century knowledge encapsulated in the Narragansett Dawn,” Spears said. “It speaks to the conquest, colonization, wars, intergenerational trauma and survivance of our people. The work that Halle is doing will create an index of all the people, places, events, dates, cultural knowledge and key topics highlighted, giving more scholars, authors, artists, filmmakers and other lay researchers the opportunity to use this irreplaceable resource. It will also allow our own staff to utilize it more efficiently in creating educational programs, curricula and exhibits.” According to Spears, the Dawn brought Indigenous stories and perspectives to the fore at a time when Native American history was at best ignored and at worst deliberately erased from the public record. In 1880, the Rhode Island legislature passed a “detribalization” law that essentially ended support for the Narragansett Tribe in part by denying tribal members’ claims to ancestral land in Washington County. By the 1930s, local Native American history had faded into such obscurity that white Rhode Islanders were hosting “Victorian teas” at a site where, unbeknownst to them, colonial militiamen had massacred hundreds of Narragansett men, women and children 250 years earlier. Princess Red Wing used the Dawn to advocate for the state to erect a monument at the site, now understood to be one of the bloodiest conflicts per capita in U.S. history. “This publication created a visibility and a documentation of what the Narragansett and other Southern New England communities were doing at that time,” Spears said. “It was reflecting on what happened in our past and sharing our goals for the future.” I’m grateful to my professors in the Africana studies department for the real care they put into shaping our growth into full people, not just as students. Because of what I’ve learned from them, I know how to think about the implications of what I’m doing. That will always help me act with intention. Halle Bryant Class of 2021 Intertwined histories Participating in a larger research project that connects Native American dispossession and racial slavery is personally meaningful to Bryant, who grew up in South Orange, New Jersey, to parents with African and Tuscarora ancestry. “Being part of this research group has cemented for me that you can’t separate the histories of Black Americans and Native Americans,” Bryant said. “There’s this sense a lot of people have that because one group was subjected to genocide and the other comprised the free labor force that powered the American economy, you can’t talk about them together. But they were both victims of racialization, and they have both experienced slavery and genocide.” Those intertwined histories came alive to Bryant both inside and outside the classroom while she was at Brown. Courses she took that touched on the relationships between African and Native American history included Introduction to Africana Studies, Global Black Radicalism and American Slavery. And in her junior year, she learned more about both African and Indigenous slavery in the Caribbean while conducting historical research for an upcoming PBS documentary on the trans-Atlantic slave trade, part of another CSSJ research project. In the fall, Bryant will move on to a job as a trust and safety analyst at Discord, helping to prevent the spread of extremist rhetoric and sexual harassment on the popular messaging platform. She hopes to spend time later in life teaching children. Though she doesn’t know precisely what the far-flung future holds professionally, she said that she’s prepared to tackle any number of scenarios, thanks to her Brown education. “I want to make myself useful, and right now I’m just seeing what feels right,” Bryant said. “I’m grateful to my professors in the Africana studies department for the real care they put into shaping our growth into full people, not just as students. Because of what I’ve learned from them, I know how to think about the implications of what I’m doing. That will always help me act with intention.” Tags Slavery and Justice Summer Experiences Related news: Arts and Humanities John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers May 11, 2022 A new collection of drafts, notes and correspondence from playwright José Rivera gives scholars a window into one artist’s process and provides new perspective on the lived experiences of Latin Americans. Read Article Open details for John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers Arts and Humanities Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute April 27, 2022 Kleinman, who currently serves as provost at Rhode Island School of Design, will lead the development and implementation of academic programs within Brown University’s Arts Institute. Read Article Open details for Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute Arts and Humanities Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy April 18, 2022 Michael Steinberg, a professor of music and history at Brown, has curated a new exhibition on Richard Wagner, one of the 19th century’s most influential and problematic cultural figures, in Berlin. Read Article Open details for Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history Open details for Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history Bookmark this Page