Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Federal Direct Unsubsidized Federal student loans are issued through the Federal Direct Loan program from the U.S. Department of Education. The unsubsidized are low-interest loans for students to help pay for the cost of higher education after high school. You’ll have a single point of contact and online access to your Direct Loan account information. There are several repayment options to choose from once you are in repayment. You are not required to accept the loan and we will not process the loan unless you accept it. Remember, student loans must be repaid. Borrow what you need to fill the gap between grants or scholarships and the cost to attend school. Important Note All Graduate are required to enrolled in 6 units for the loan to disburse. A graduate students taking 500 level or higher course(s) that is considered 4 units, meets the 6 units requirement for a loan disbursement. *Courses that are 500 level or higher, the units are counted 1.5 times more. Independent study course(s), the units are not counted 1.5 times more. Eligibility Requirements Submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and other supporting documents, if required. You must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a degree, certificate or professional program. Your enrollment status must be at least half-time, (the equivalent of 6 units). Must be a citizen or eligible non-citizen (permanent resident) of the United States. Unsubsidized Loan Not need based Maximums based on grade level and dependency status Federal government does not pay interest Interest is variable No obligation to make payments while enrolled at least half-time Interest accrues and capitalized during periods of enrollment in school and/or in deferment Interest Rates and Loan Fees Interest rates are adjusted by Congress annually, with a new rate taking effect each July 1st. Although the interest rate for new loans may change each July 1, the rate received will be fixed for the life of the loan. In addition to the interest rate, Direct Loans charges an origination fee on all Stafford loans, which is deducted from your loan funds at the time of disbursement. Please check the student aid website for interest rates and loan fees for current and past years. Accepting and Decline the Loan Log Into the Portal Click Titan Online Click Student Center Click 'Accept/Decline Awards' on the left side under 'Finances' Click the 'Aid Year' Click to check mark the 'Accept' box to accept, or Click to check mark to 'Decline' If you decline the loans, click submit to finalized your decline of the loans Review and accept a portion or all the full amount of the loan. Click 'Submit' to finalized your accepted loan amount. Complete both the Loan Entrance Counseling and the Subsidized/Unsubsidized Master Promissory Note (MPN) by logging into Student Loans . HOW MUCH CAN I BORROW There are limits on the amount in subsidized and unsubsidized loans that you may be eligible to receive each academic year (annual loan limits) and the total amounts you may borrow for undergraduate and graduate study (aggregate loan limits). The actual loan amount you are eligible to receive each academic year may be less than the annual loan limit. These limits vary depending on your grade level. ACADEMIC YEAR LOAN MAXIMUMS Academic Year Subsidized Unsubsidized Graduate/Professional N/A $20,500 Graduate/Professional students are only eligible for unsubsidized loan, with an annual limit of $20,500. Other aids that a student may receive can affect the annual amount offer. AGGREGATE LIMITS Aggregate Limits Subsidized Only Subsidized and Unsubsidized Combined Graduate/Professional* $65,500 $138,500 *Graduate/Professional student loan aggregate is based on the student's cumulative amount they borrowed throughout the student's Undergraduate, Credential, and Graduate career. Loan Servicers You may find your loan servicer by logging into the Federal Student Aid website using your federal ID and password. If you forgot your ID or password, you may indicate so on the site, and you will be directed to enter your email to re-set and gain access to your information. If you have any general questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Financial Aid . This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.