Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Residency Classification Residency Classification The Office of Residency Classification assists graduate and undergraduate students with application for entitlement to pay in-state rates on tuition and fees. Clemson University has final authority on residency decisions, following state legislation, regulations and guidance. The checklist is for informational purposes; submission of all items does not guarantee that your appeal will be granted. Decisions are based on a holistic review, can be different from school to school and can not be appealed to the SC Commission on Higher Education. SC Regulation 62-605. A. Resident status may not be acquired by an applicant or student while residing in South Carolina for the primary purpose of enrollment in an institution or for access to state-supported programs designed to serve South Carolina residents. An applicant or student from another state who comes to South Carolina usually does so for the purpose of attending school. Therefore, an applicant or student who enrolls as a non-resident in an institution is presumed to remain a non-resident throughout his or her attendance and does not qualify under any of the residency provisions. General Residency To be completed by independent, dependent and military applicants (as defined below): INDEPENDENT: Students who are financially independent and SC residents in their own right. DEPENDENT: Students who are a dependent of or are married to an SC resident. MILITARY: Students who believe they should qualify under the military regulations for in-state tuition and fees. Checklists are available to determine the type of documentation needed for each applicant type. *The student must initiate the application. If a parent/spouse's information is required, they will be prompted later on in the application process to complete their sections. **For first year students: You must be accepted to Clemson and receive your log in information before you apply for in-state tuition and fees. <<General Residency Application>> State Employees Non-South Carolina residents who are full-time faculty and administrative employees of South Carolina state-supported colleges and universities and their dependents are eligible to pay in-state tuition and fees. <<State Employee Application>> Fire and Police Tuition Waiver Tuition is not charged to children of firemen, law-enforcement officers and government employees totally disabled or killed in the line of duty. Legal citation can be found in the SC Code of Laws (see Article 3). <<Fire and Police Tuition Waiver Request>> Deadlines (Non-Military Applications) Non-Military applications take several weeks to review once all of the documentation has been received. In order to have your file reviewed for a semester, you must submit your application by the deadlines listed below: (if this date should fall on a weekend the deadline will be the following Monday) Fall: July 1 PRIORITY DEADLINE for new first-year students to receive a decision by May 1 is March 1. Spring: December 1 Summer: day before Summer 1 classes begin (check the academic calendar for Summer 1 start date) The review of the petition and an initial determination of the status may take as long as six (6) to eight (8) weeks, not including subsequent appeals. You will be responsible for all late fees and finance charges during the entire process. VA Benefits Senior Citizens Home First Year Students Transfer Students Residency Guidelines Military Residency Requirements Residency Checklist FAQ Contact Us Residency in Question What Happens Next? Related Links Student Financial Aid Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram