Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close Ways to Give Overview Bequests Beneficiary Designation Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trusts Lead Trust Real Estate Life Insurance IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Collections and Other Tangible Assets Resources Overview Resource Center News & Research Discover Your Plan Webinars Gift Calculator FAQS Glossary Estate Planning Guide For Advisors Donor Spotlight The Shaw Society Publications For Advisors About Us Overview Meet Our Team Contact Us Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Shaw Society Gift Planning The Shaw Society The Shaw Society Boston College invites you to join the Shaw Society, which celebrates alumni, parents, and friends who have secured the University’s bright future via a gift through their estate or other planned gift. The Shaw Society has over 3000 members and honors Father Joseph Coolidge Shaw, who helped establish BC with his gift of books and the proceeds of his life insurance policy. All members receive updates on the latest campus news via our Bookmarks publication as well as invitations to special events, webinars, and other exclusive benefits. BC counts the full amount of estate gifts for members who are 60 and older: it is our way of thanking you for sustaining the long-term growth of the University. Join Today Contact Us 877-304-SHAW giftplanning@bc.edu Contact Form Fr. Joseph Coolidge Shaw, 1851 Inception of the Shaw Society In 1851, just a few months before his death, Father Joseph Coolidge Shaw dictated his will with an inclusion that he wanted his life insurance deed of $4,000 (valued today near $135,000) and his library of approximately 1,800 to help found a Jesuit College in Boston. This was the first significant gift to create Boston College. When Father Shaw passed away, he was just 30 years old – BC’s first significant gift was from a young philanthropist. In his own words “The deed of four thousand dollars in the Massachusetts Life Insurance (now in Father Rector's possession) I give to Father Provincial to be used with any interest that has accrued on it in establishing a school or college of the Society in Boston... My library at home (consisting of about 1,200 volumes on theological and spiritual subjects and 5 or 600 more on lighter topics) I intended for such college or colleges and Seminary of the Society as should be established in Boston...” Sign up below to receive the latest news, resources, and events for the Shaw Society, which celebrates alumni, parents, and friends who have secured the University’s bright future via a gift through their estate or other planned gift. How Can We Help? We're here to partner with you if you have any questions. Feel free to reach out to us directly or fill out the form. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok