Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Giving to Xavier Alumni Relations Directory Xavier Home Giving to Xavier Menu Alumni Relations Directory Giving at Xavier Welcome to Giving to Xavier. Here, you will find all of the ways you can make a lasting impact at Xavier through philanthropic donations that will benefit current and future students, academics, and campus programs and organizations. A gift made to Xavier is impactful at any monetary level. Look through our resources to see how you can make a difference, today! Make your Gift I want to give There are multiple ways to make a donation to Xavier University. Easily make a gift online, or see what other ways you can make lasting impact. Get Involved with Giving 1831 Society - The 1831 Society recognizes and celebrates annual philanthropic commitments made by members of the Xavier community who contribute $1,000+. Parent Giving - The Parents Fund is a way for Xavier parents to support the resources on campus that our students benefit from every single day. Women of Excellence - Created to honor, extend, and advance Xavier and Edgecliff’s extraordinary women graduates, as well as provide opportunities for women to grow as organizational and philanthropic leaders for the University. All for One Fund - Provides financial support to Xavier Athletics through private donations used to help achieve the student-athlete academic and athletic achievement. Alumni Engagement - Stay connected to your school and your classmates. Xavier Annual Fund - By making a gift to the Xavier Annual Fund, you are able to immediately help with the most pressing and time sensitive needs on campus. Making a Permanent Impact Ready to take the next step, get in touch with a gift officer to help plan your lasting impact. You can choose to make a gift to the University that will make a long lasting, permanent impact on Xavier Students and our campus. Estate gifts, corporate donations, donations to the endowment, and gifts to grow our campus structure are significant to furthering the mission of Xavier University. Contact a Gift Officer Explore Your Major Gift Options Your Annual Fund donation allows Xavier to support the areas of greatest need, right now. Your lasting impact gift to one of these four areas helps Xavier long into the future. Whether you want to contribute to the endowment to provide students with scholarships, endow chairs, or endow professorships, or you want to help the growth of the University by supporting the physical presence of a building on campus – your gift will keep on giving. Gift and Estate Planning Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Partners Corporate Partners Xavier Endowment Xavier Endowment Capital Projects Capital Projects Contact the Annual Fund Team Send a message Meet the team Questions about making a gift: 513-745-1030 Connect with us: Connect on facebook Connect on twitter Connect on instagram Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram