By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Graduate More from this Section International Undergraduate Cost of Attendance for Graduate Students The cost of attendance is an estimate of what it will cost for a graduate student to attend Syracuse University for an academic year. The Cost of Attendance includes expenses for the graduate student alone and cannot be increased to cover living expenses of other family members. The family expenses are taken into consideration by the federal methodology formula used to calculate your Expected Family contribution (EFC) as reflected on your FAFSA. The total of all student financial assistance cannot exceed the Cost of Attendance. Apply for financial aid There are two types of expenses that make up the cost of attendance: Direct Expenses Direct expenses are costs that you pay directly to Syracuse University through the Bursar’s Office. Examples of direct expenses include tuition, fees, room (if you live on campus), and meals (if you select a meal plan). The Cost of Attendance uses a blended room and meal rate, as living arrangements and costs vary. Your actual housing and meal charges will depend on the type of housing and meal plan you select. You will be billed for the actual charges of your room and meal plan selection, which may be different than the amount listed in the Cost of Attendance. Indirect Expenses 2022-23 Cost of Attendance Costs for an upcoming school year are determined and approved by our Board of Trustees in March, prior to the start of the school year. All costs for an upcoming school year are estimates and subject to change prior to this approval. Indirect expenses are not billed by Syracuse University; however, estimates for these expenses are included in the Cost of Attendance for your planning purposes. Examples of indirect expenses include books, supplies, transportation, and personal expenses. Please note that these are only estimates, your actual indirect expenses may be different. (For example, if you live close to Syracuse, your actual transportation expenses to go home during breaks will be much lower than the amount listed in the Cost of Attendance.) Cost of Attendance for the 2022-2023 Academic Year Direct (Billable) Costs Tuition $32,436* Fees $922 Total $33,358 Other Indirect Expenses (Average) Housing $11,136 Meals $4,220 Books & Supplies $1,033 Personal Expenses $2,244 Transportation $1,630 Loan Fee $217** Total $20,480 Subtotal (without health insurance) $53,838 Health Insurance $2,251*** Total Cost of Attendance $56,089 *The tuition figure of $1,802 per credit hour listed above applies to most graduate residential programs, with the exception of the Social Work & Marriage & Family Therapy programs which charge $1,111 per credit hour. The above estimate is based on 18 credit hours for the academic year. **This loan fee is charged by the Department of Education. It is a percentage of the loan amount, and is proportionately deducted from each loan disbursement. ***This mandatory fee may be waived if student has adequate private health insurance. Cost of Attendance for Online Quarter Term Graduate Programs The following is the cost of attendance for one quarter term (Fall, Winter, or Spring) with registration for six (6) credit hours: Tuition $10,812* Housing $4,083 Meals $1,547 Books and Supplies $344 Personal Expenses $823 Transportation $126 Loan fee $72** Total $17,808 *The tuition figure listed above applies to most graduate online programs, with the following exceptions: Communications@Syracuse $11,784; Marriage and Family Therapy $6,666. **This loan fee is charged by the Department of Education. It is a percentage of the loan amount, and is proportionately deducted from each loan disbursement. Cost of Attendance for Online Semester Term Programs The following is the cost of attendance for one semester (Fall or Spring) with registration for six (6) credit hours: Tuition $6,666 Housing $5,568 Meals $2,110 Books & Supplies $344 Personal $1,122 Loan Fees $108 Travel $128 Total $16,046 Related Pages Part-Time Cost of Attendance Tuition is discounted for part-time students at Syracuse. But college costs encompass more than tuition and fees. Student Health Insurance Syracuse University requires full-time, matriculated students to carry qualifying health insurance coverage. Types of Financial Aid There are a variety of loans, grants, scholarships, and programs to assist in paying for your education at Syracuse University. Graduate Degree Programs Choose from more than 200 advanced degree programs from across Syracuse's 13 schools and colleges, then customize your education with a rich selection of courses, internships and research projects. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy