Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the General Counsel Attorneys & Staff Trademark Licensing Higher Education Act Contact Us Quick Links What to Do Policies Notarial Services Outside Counsel Attorney-Client Privilege Referrals for Personal Legal Services Search this Site Office of the General Counsel Hinman Box 6002 63 South Main St.; Suite 301 Hanover, NH 03755 Phone: 603-646-2444 Fax: 603-646-2447 Email: Office.of.General.Counsel@dartmouth.edu Home > Higher Education Act Information Introduction College Costs Student Information Copyright Information Health and Safety Introduction The Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) was enacted on August 14, 2008 and reauthorized the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA). The new act makes a number of changes to programs authorized under HEA, authorizes new programs, and makes changes to other laws. This website provides information that colleges and universities are required to make available under the statute. Top of page College Costs Net Price Calculator The Department of Education has developed a "net price calculator" designed to provide students and families with an individualized estimate of the net price to attend specific colleges. By approximately October, 2011, educational institutions must make a net price calculator available on their websites. Institutions may use the Department of Education template or develop a customized version that includes, at a minimum, the same elements as the Department's version. This estimate does not represent a final determination or actual award of financial assistance and federal aid may only be received through completion of FAFSA. Cost of Attendance Textbook Information The textbooks required for courses offered at Dartmouth College can be found via the online course schedule maintained by the Office of the Registrar. The textbooks required for a course can be found by searching the particular course or by searching for the courses offered by a particular department or during a term. The search can be conducted here: Office of the Registrar: select a Search Type and then follow the directions to find the courses you are interested in. Once you identify the courses you are interested in, click on the "Title" to open up a box containing the textbook information. If you have questions about the textbooks for a particular course, please contact the academic department offering the course. If you have questions about textbook information generally, please contact the Office of the Registrar at: Office of the Registrar or 603-646-2246. Top of page Student Information Diversity Annual information reflecting student body diversity at the College, including a breakdown giving the percentage of enrolled, full-time students who are male, are female, receive a Pell Grant, and self-identify as a member of each major racial or ethnic group. Career Placement Employment of College graduates gathered from such sources as alumni surveys, student satisfaction surveys, the National Survey of Student Engagement, State data systems, and other relevant sources. Graduate Education Placement Types of graduate and professional education in which graduates of the College are enrolled. Completion/Graduation Rates Completion or graduation rate of degree-seeking, full-time, undergraduate by gender, by each major racial and ethnic subgroup, by recipients of a Federal Pell Grant, and by recipients of certain federal loans. Transfer of Credit Policy Transfer of credit policies including the criteria the College uses regarding the transfer of credit earned at another college and a list of colleges with which Dartmouth has established an "articulation agreement." Consequences of Drug Conviction on Federal Financial Aid Information regarding the consequences of a drug conviction on student federal financial aid. Annual Disclosure to Students Information regarding Financial Aid, Campus Safety, Peer to Peer file sharing and the financial aid consequences of illegal drug possession and other topics that the College is required to distribute to students annually. Academics and Degree Programs Accreditation Faculty Student Accessibility Services Equity in Athletics Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Top of page Copyright Information Peer-to-Peer File Sharing The unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may subject students to civil and criminal liabilities. A summary of the penalties for violation of Federal copyright laws is attached along with a description of the College's policies with respect to unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, including disciplinary actions that are taken against students who engage in unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials over the College's network. Top of page Health and Safety Disclosure of Relationship with Law Enforcement The Dartmouth College Department of Safety and Security (the "Department") does not have law enforcement authority (i.e. powers of arrest), and relies upon local law enforcement agencies when the need arises. The Department maintains a positive professional relationship with the neighboring area local police departments of Lebanon, Norwich and Lyme,as well as with state and federal agencies in matters concerning their specific jurisdictions. In this regards, the Department is regularly in contact with the members of the Hanover Police Department relating to issues and calls for service affecting the campus or the town of Hanover, and officers from both departments interact daily on issues of campus and town safety. Furthermore, the Director of Safety and Security and the Hanover Chief of Police communicate regularly, sharing appropriate information regarding criminal activity on campus and off campus. Also, the Director and the Department investigators communicate regularly with local authorities in surrounding communities regarding College-related activities and incidents. Hanover arrest logs are also reviewed by the Department to insure that all appropriate incidents are recorded, and College has two memorandums of understanding with the Hanover Police. Emergency Notification to the Dartmouth Community The College has developed an Emergency Notification system that will alert the entire college community in the event of a dangerous situation posing an immediate threat to the campus community. Dartmouth's Emergency Notification system uses various modes of notification and information dissemination including DartAlert, D2U Now, the Dartmouth home page and the Dartmouth Emergency Information website. DartAlert The College has selected the services of an outside company, MIR3 (tm), which has the capacity to deliver time-sensitive emergency notifications, through a variety of communications devices, to the entire Dartmouth student, faculty and staff population in the event of an emergency that affects Dartmouth and Hanover areas. In the event of an emergency affecting Dartmouth College, all Dartmouth-administered, land-line telephones will receive an automated message, and all Dartmouth email accounts will receive an email with brief details and instructions regarding the emergency event. Additionally, and upon individual registration, the DartAlert notification system enables members of the Dartmouth College community to receive either an automated cell phone warning or text message if an emergency occurs on campus. The College has identified and trained a group of Initiators who are authorized to send out an announcement using DartAlert. The Initiators group consists of all Safety and Security Supervisory personnel, the Director and Associate Director of Safety and Security, several Deans within the Dean of the College Division, and the Director of Risk and Internal Controls Services. VOX Daily and Dartmouth Now VOX Daily and Dartmouth Now (formerly known as D2U Now) is an immediate-delivery message system that replaced the College's "mass mail" system in the spring of 2009. While it uses the VOX Daily system (Dartmouth Daily Update, and electronic news digest sent to faculty, staff and students each day), Dartmouth Now notifications are simultaneously sent to the entire campus community, or to a select population or a specific group. Dartmouth Home Page The Dartmouth home page, Dartmouth's online front door and the online "home" for many in the Dartmouth community, is a key component in emergency communications. In the case of an emergency, Dartmouth home and the Dartmouth Emergency Information Website, in tandem, will serve as the locus for notification, instruction, and communication. The primary purpose of the home page during an emergency is for external communications. The home page adapts in design and content in response to the situation, and points to further information on the Emergency Information Website. During an emergency, the Dartmouth home page will display an Alert Banner, which would sit atop of the current home page design to display important notifications, and with a link to the Emergency Website when appropriate. The banner is propagated throughout the Dartmouth home site, and throughout all Dartmouth sites that use the Web Services template. When Dartalert is utilized, the banner text would be the same as the text used for the DartAlert notification. Dartmouth Emergency Information Website The Emergency Information website is the primary internal communications vehicle that the College would use during an emergency. The site contains alert status notifications, instructions, phone numbers. and other communications depending on the nature of the emergency. This site is flexible and able to adapt to the communication needs that arise from the emergency. When the College is in the midst of managing a significant emergency (a DartAlert-level emergency), all traffic to the Dartmouth homepage will redirect to the Emergency website. We can also redirect all traffic to www.dartmouth.edu (not just home page traffic) to the Emergency website. When the College is not managing an emergency, the site displays an "all is well" status notification and phone numbers and links to the Emergency Preparedness (http//www.dartmouth.edu/~prepare) and Safety and Security (http:www.dartmouth.edu/~security) sites. Other methods of emergency communication may include the utilization of mobile public addresses/announcements made by Safety and Security personnel from their vehicles, which are equipped with public address systems. Emergency Response and Notification Systems Testing Disclosure of Fire Safety Standards and Measures Information about Dartmouth's Fire Safety Standards and Measures can be found in the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report, which is available at the link above. Disclosure of Vaccination Policies Dartmouth College requires the following immunizations for all student, please view the list here on Dartmouth's Health Services web page: https://students.dartmouth.edu/health-service/medical-records/incoming-student-requirements Hate Crime Reporting Crime statistics, including Hate Crimes, are maintained by the Department of Safety and Security and reported annually in the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. A copy of the report can be found at the link above. Missing Student Procedures Any individual who believes that a currently enrolled Dartmouth student is missing should immediately notify the Department of Safety and Security at (603) 646-4000 (6-4000 from Campus phones). Following receipt of this information, the Department will commence an investigation. Should the investigation result in the conclusion that the student is missing, and has been missing for 24 hours, the Department will notify the Hanover Police and/or the appropriate local law enforcement agency, as well as the student's emergency contact within a span of time not to exceed 24 hours from the time the student was determined to be missing. If the missing student is under the age of 18, and not an emancipated individual, the Department will notify the student's parent or legal guardian immediately after the Department of Safety and Security determines that the student is missing. Upon receipt of information that a student might be missing, the Department of Safety and Security, will recruit the aid of various College departments to assist in determining if the student is in fact missing. These various College departments include, but are not limited to, the Office of Residential Life, the Dean of the College, Dining Services, Information and Technology Services, and others as needed. The College is developing a means by which students can confidentially identify and register an individual to be contacted within 24 hours after investigation has determined that they are missing. In the event a student goes missing, this contact information will be accessed and notification made to this individual within 24 hours after a missing determination has been made. Top of page Questions, Concerns, Grievances Inquiries or grievances can be registered with the NH Division of Higher Education Contact Information: Additional information, including written copies of Dartmouth policies referenced in this announcement can be obtained from the offices reached through the links in the document. In addition, the Office of the General Counsel at Dartmouth College can provide assistance if you have general questions about Dartmouth's efforts to comply with applicable law. Please contact us if you have any questions. Financial Aid Office Dartmouth College 6024 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755 Financial.Aid@Dartmouth.edu Telephone: (800) 443-3605/ (603) 646- 2451 Fax: (603) 646-1414 Office of the General Counsel Dartmouth College 63 South Main Street, Suite 301, Hanover, New Hampshire 03755 Office.of.General.Counsel@Dartmouth.edu Telephone: (603) 646-2444 Fax: (603) 646-2447 Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 9/27/21