Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Data Analytics In the legal industry and academy, practitioners and scholars utilize artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to perform analyses that were once labor-intensive endeavors. Although technology can, in some instances, replicate human decision-making, lawyers and scholars play an essential role in compiling data sets, defining analytical queries, and, most importantly, interpreting findings and presenting them in an accessible way for a broad audience. AI, big data, machine learning: How is technology revolutionizing the practice of law and the administration of justice? Columbia Law professors continue to be at the forefront of integrating data analytics in legal research and practice. They employ machine learning, natural language processing, and other state-of-the-art data science methodologies in research across a range of disciplines and research topics, including studies of crime, consumer bankruptcies, short selling, U.S. and EU competition law, and Chinese judicial decisions. Students benefit from their knowledge and practices in the classroom and through labs and other experiential learning opportunities. Why Columbia? Discover in an array of courses how AI is disrupting and influencing the study of nearly every area of the law: antitrust, business, criminal justice, cybersecurity, human rights, intellectual property, international, legal history, securities regulation, social policy, and more. Pursue projects with support from the Columbia University Data Science Institute, which provides Law School students and faculty with extensive resources. Join the Columbia Law School Legal Tech Association, a hotbed of ideas and innovation, which brings visionaries and entrepreneurs in the field to speak on campus. Serve as an editor of The Columbia Science & Technology Law Review. Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty Jeffrey A. Fagan Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Kellen R. Funk Associate Professor of Law Jane C. Ginsburg Morton L. Janklow Professor of Literary & Artistic Property Law Bert Huang Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law Justin McCrary Paul J. Evanson Professor of Law Benjamin L. Liebman Robert L. Lieff Professor of Law Joshua Mitts Associate Professor of Law and Milton Handler Fellow Eric Talley Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law All Faculty Listing Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia Science and Technology Law Review Columbia Law School Legal Tech Association Society for Law, Science, and Technology Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Decoding the Data Revolution Columbia Law Professors Eric Talley and Joshua Mitts discuss how machine learning, AI, and data analytics are transforming the practice and study of the law. In The Press Sarah Seo Lays Out Path for Removing Traffic Law Enforcement from Police Duties Sarah A. Seo | The Justice Collaborative Institute Faculty News Talia Gillis: Keeping Track of Our ‘Mental Accounting’ Law School News News Professor Bert Huang Awarded the 2020 Willis L.M. Reese Prize for Excellence in Teaching Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.