<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Ahmed Farag MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” I am torn between two worlds. Born in a place where people are forgotten, I often contemplate how I can serve as a beacon of hope. Yet, I have escaped to another world, where I can propel my own happiness. Alone in the darkness, the voices of the unheard constantly creep into my mind and keep me awake. My mind flashes back to the time when I picked up the blueprints for the water well that we were building for an impoverished village. Born an hour’s drive away, only luck and faith put me on the more fortuitous side of life’s equation. The area didn’t look far from a time when our pharaonic ancestors ruled. In the middle of the desert, humble abodes line the village filled with overlooked people, who don’t even have clean running water. I could say, “Who cares? They’re nobodies.” But, how can I look into the eyes of a kid that looks like a younger version of me and not wonder what could’ve been. Back in my own hometown of Cairo, I delivered books to an orphanage. Inside an old building overcrowded with children running around, it feels like there’s no direction and life goals seem irrelevant. I could say, “Why does it matter what happens to them? At least they have food.” But, how can I look at my younger reflection and not desire for them to have ambition? Without my own parents, I would’ve just been another statistic of illiteracy in a third world country. My moral insomnia continues to drag. If I can’t find enough motivation to act for them, how will I accomplish anything meaningful in life? — Ahmed Farag The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College