Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports » Intramural Sports Rules » 11-on-11 Soccer Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules 11-on-11 Soccer Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball 11-on-11 Soccer Rules Any intramural policies not mentioned here may be found in the intramural handbook. Unless specifically mentioned below, intramural soccer play is governed by NFHS soccer rules. By participating in intramural sports, the participant agrees to abide by all intramural rules and policies. 1. Sportsmanship right arrow down arrow 1.1 Following each game, each team will receive a sportsmanship rating between 0.0 and 4.0. 1.2 Any unsportsmanlike actions may be forwarded to Judicial Affairs and may include revocation of intramural sports and/or Campus Recreation privileges. Sportmanship Rating Score Player & Team Behavior 4.0 Always respectful to officials and opposing team. No complaining or arguing. Does not comment about officials’ calls. 3.0 Usually respectful to officials and opposing team. Minimal arguing or complaining about officials. Maximum one unsportsmanlike penalty issued. 2.0 Consistent dissent or disrespect to officials/opposing team. Consistent arguing and/or complaining about officials’ calls. Maximum of two unsportsmanlike penalties or one ejection. 1.0 Excessive complaining, dissent or disrespect to officials/opposing team. Contact or provocation of officials or opposing team members not inherent to the sport. Any player involved in a fight. Maximum of three unsportsmanlike penalties or two ejections. 0.0 Team and/or players are unsafe/out of control. Multiple players on team fighting. Destruction or abuse of UC property. * A team that receives a "0" rating will be suspended from competition until its captain meets with the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. The team may be removed from competition. 2. Eligibility right arrow down arrow 2.1 To be eligible to play intramural sports at the University of Cincinnati, a participant must be a current UC student (taking classes in the same semester), faculty, or staff AND possess an active membership to UC Campus Recreation Center. 2.1.1 Uptown, full-time UC students receive a Campus Recreation membership through full payment of the Campus Life Fee. All other populations will need to purchase a membership in order to be eligible to play. 2.2 Each eligible participant may play on one coed and one non-coed team per sport, per season. 2.3 Every game, each participant must check in with the intramural official with a valid Bearcat card. 3. Match Timing right arrow down arrow 3.1 The length of the game is two 20-minute halves. Halftime will be three minutes, time permitting. 3.1.1 A running clock will be used for the entire game except for official’s and team timeouts. 3.2 Each team receives two 30-second timeouts. These timeouts can only be called during a dead ball situation. 3.3 Late penalties: 3.3.1 One to five minutes late = Other team receives two goals and possession. 3.3.2 Five to nine minutes late = Other team receives four goals and possession. 3.3.3 Ten or more minutes late = Game is forfeited. 3.3.3.1 Teams that forfeit once must pay a $20 reinstatement fee prior to the end of the regular season to qualify for playoffs. 3.3.3.2 Teams that forfeit twice will immediately be removed from the league. 3.4 Default: A team may request a default at least 48 hours in advance by e-mailing intramural@uc.edu. 3.4.1 The team will not receive a forfeit, receive a 3.0 sportsmanship rating, and not have to pay the reinstatement fee. 3.4.2 A team is allowed one default per season. 4. Overtime right arrow down arrow 4.1 There is no overtime during the regular season. 4.2 During playoffs, overtime will be decided by penalty kicks. 4.2.1 Each team will select five players from the players left on the field at the end of regulation. 4.2.2 If tied after five players have kicked, any remaining players who were on the field at the end of regulation will kick. 4.2.3 If tied after all rule 4.2.2, the 1st penalty kicker will kick again. Teams will kick in the same order until the tie is broken. 5. Equipment right arrow down arrow 5.1 Jewelry is not allowed during intramural play. This includes earrings, bracelets, necklaces, and fitness trackers, among other things. 5.2 Headwear is not permitted during intramural play. This includes hats and bandannas among other things. 5.3 All players must wear athletic clothing and footwear. 5.3.1 Rubber molded cleats are the only cleats permitted. Removable or metal cleats are prohibited. 5.4 Casts or braces must be covered with padded materials. 5.5 Medical jewelry is allowed and must be taped down with athletic tape. 5.6 Jerseys are available for use at the playing location. Teams are not required to bring their own. 5.7 Shin guards are highly recommended, but not provided. 5.8 A goalkeeper must wear colors which distinguish himself or herself from other players and the officials. 6. Rosters right arrow down arrow 6.1 A team may have up to 25 players on its’ roster. 6.2 A team may have up to two club soccer players on its’ roster. 6.3 A team may not have current varsity soccer players on its’ roster. Former varsity soccer players must sit out 365 days prior to participating on an intramural soccer team. 6.4 Once playoffs begin, players may not be added to the roster. 6.5 Prior to noon on the start date, a team must have at least eight players confirmed on its’ IMLeagues roster. Teams that fail to do so will have two sportsmanship points deducted from its’ first regular season game. 7. Players right arrow down arrow 7.1 A team may play with a minimum of eight and maximum of 11 players on the field, one of which must be a goalkeeper. 7.2 Coed teams playing with: 7.2.1 10 or 11 players on the field must have at least five players of each gender on the field at any given time. 7.2.2 8 or 9 players on the field must have at least four players of each gender on the field at any given time. 8. Field and Boundaries right arrow down arrow 8.1 The perimeter outline of the soccer field is marked with white lines. 9. Substitutions right arrow down arrow 9.1 A player must check in at the halfway line with an official before the substitution is made. Substitutions may occur only: 9.1.1 After a goal (Either team may sub). 9.1.2 Before a goal kick (Either team may sub). 9.1.3 Before a team’s own corner kick or throw-in. 9.1.4 On an injury timeout. The opposing team may elect to sub an equal number of players in. 9.1.5 Other players may change place with the goalkeeper, provided the official is informed before the change is made, and only if this is done during stoppage in play. 10. Game Play and Scoring right arrow down arrow 10.1 Start of Game 10.1.1 The official will hold a pre-match coin toss. The winner of the coin toss will determine if they want to kickoff at the start of the game or which side of the field to defend. 10.1.2 Each player shall be in his or her own half of the field, and every member of the opposing team shall remain behind their own violation line, at least 10 yards away from the ball until the ball is kicked off. 10.1.3 The ball shall not be deemed in play until it has traveled half the distance of its’ own circumference. 10.1.4 The ball is kicked and clearly moves in any direction. If the kickoff is taken improperly, it must be retaken. 10.1.5 The kicker shall not play the ball a second time until it has been touched or played by another player. 10.1.6 A goal can be scored directly from a kickoff. 10.2 After a goal, the game shall be restarted as in rule 10.1. 10.3 After each half, teams shall change ends, and the team that did not kickoff at the start of the first half will kick off the second half. 10.4 During temporary suspensions of play, the official shall drop the ball at the spot where play was suspended, and it shall be restarted with an indirect free kick by the team in possession of the ball prior to the suspension. If no possession can be determined, a drop ball will occur. 10.5 Ball Out of Play - The ball is out of play if it has completely crossed a perimeter line or the game has been stopped by an official. 10.5.1 Teams are responsible for retrieving the ball when it goes out of play. Officials have the authority to issue yellow cards if frequent delays of game occur. 10.6 Ball In Play - The ball is in play at all other times, from the start of the game to the finish including rebounds off an official when he or she is in the field of play, or in the event of a supposed infringement of the rules. 10.7 Scoring – A goal is scored when the entire ball passes over the goal line, provided it has not been thrown, carried, or intentionally propelled by the hand or arm of a player on the attacking side, except in the case of the goalkeeper provided he or she is within his or her own penalty box. A player may score via: 10.7.1 Goal kick 10.7.2 Direct kick 10.7.3 Kickoff 10.7.4 Penalty kick 10.7.5 Corner kick 10.7.6 Drop ball 10.7.7 Goalkeeper punt, throw, or kick. 10.8 Mercy Rule – A game will be considered final if: 10.8.1 A team leads by eight or more goals anytime in the last five minutes of the second half. 10.8.2 A team leads by five or more goals anytime in the last two minutes of the second half. 11. Fouls and Free/Penalty Kicks right arrow down arrow 11.1 Major Fouls and Misconduct – A penalty of a direct free kick to be taken by a player of the opposing team from the place where the offense occurred, unless the foul is committed by a defensive player in his or her own penalty box, in which the fouled player is awarded a penalty kick. Major offenses include the following instances when a player is contacted prior to the ball being contacted: 11.1.1 Kicking 11.1.2 Striking 11.1.3 Dissent 11.1.4 Tripping 11.1.5 Holding 11.1.6 Handling the ball 11.1.7 Jumping at an opponent 11.1.8 Pushing 11.1.9 Charging from behind – ejection 11.1.10 Charging violently – ejection 11.2 Penalty Kicks – Should a player of the defending team intentionally commit one of the above offenses within his or her own penalty area, he or she shall be penalized by a penalty kick. If any of the offenses are deemed by the official to be serious in nature, he or she shall be assessed a yellow or red card and may be ejected from the game without being able to be replaced. 11.3 Minor Fouls and Misconduct – A player committing a minor offense shall be penalized by the award of an indirect free kick to be taken by a player of the opposing team from the place where the infringement occurred. These include: 11.3.1 Dangerous play 11.3.2 Obstruction 11.3.1 Delay of Game 11.4 Delay of Game – If any player, in the official’s opinion, intentionally puts the ball out of play to delay the game, play shall be stopped, and an indirect free kick awarded to the opposing team. Goalkeepers will not be considered to be in violation of this rule when they deflect the ball by hand over the perimeter line for a corner kick, provided such play is made within the goal area. 11.5 Slide Tackling is not permitted. A player that slide tackles will receive a yellow or red card depending on the severity, and a direct free kick will be awarded to the opposing team. If a second infraction occurs, the offender will automatically receive a red card and be ejected from the game. 11.6 Advantage – This is a discretionary judgment which allows an official to permit play to continue rather than stopping to administer a foul. This concept is based on the premise that the foul did not put the offended team at a disadvantage, or the foul If called would take away a favorable opportunity for the offended team. The foul may be subsequently called if advantage does not materialize. 12. Offside right arrow down arrow 12.1 An offensive player is consider offside if all three of the following criteria are satisfied: 12.1.1 The player is in the opposing team’s half of the field. 12.1.2 The player is in front of the ball. 12.1.3 There are fewer than two opposing players (can include the goalkeeper) between the player and the goal line. 12.2 Exception – A player is not offside if he or she receives the ball directly from a goal kick, throw-in, or corner kick. 12.3 Exception – The official may also not call a player offside if the player does not gain an advantage by being offside. 13. Goalkeeper Restrictions right arrow down arrow 13.1 Violations of the following rules will result in an indirect free kick: 13.1.1 A goalkeeper may bounce the ball for up to six seconds before releasing the ball. 13.1.2 A goalkeeper must distribute the ball within six seconds after gaining control of it. 13.1.3 A goalkeeper may not set the ball down and then pick it up again using his or her hands. 13.1.4 The ball may not be passed into the goalkeeper’s hands from the neutral zone by a member of his or her own team. This includes a series of passes among teammates back into the goalkeeper’s hands. 13.2 A goalkeeper may not bring either knee above the waist in an offensive manner to protect himself or herself, as it could bring harm to other players. Penalty depends on the severity and may result in an ejection. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top