Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Life at Nebraska Recreation & Well-Being Recreation & Well-Being Nebraska Life at Nebraska Recreation & Well-Being Recreation & Well-Being The Nebraska experience is one of mind and body. A healthy, capable mind depends on a healthy body — which is why we provide ample resources for you to live your best life in both of these areas. Fitness For those who like to compete on courts and fields, but perhaps hung up their cleats or track shoes after high school, there are many opportunities to participate in club and intramural sports. Most work around class schedules, with evening competitions on well-lit fields in the fall and spring, and winter competitions in the many courts and other indoor facilities on City and East campuses. Bike riders will appreciate direct access to Lincoln’s extensive and award-winning paved trail system — there’s no better way to gain an understanding of this great college city than to spend some hours on its trails! Campus Recreation Programs Lincoln Recreation Nutrition No matter what your nutrition goals might be, UNL's resources can help you meet them. For a healthy meal with enriching ingredients you can always depend on one of our University Dining facilities, which offers sit-in and take-out options so you can still eat healthy while on the go. For additional assistance, the University Health Center has dietitians available that can provide nutrition counseling and genetic testing. Dining Services Wellness & Nutrition Mental Wellness The University of Nebraska–Lincoln has a number of campus resources to provide support, counseling, and programs aimed at fostering mental health and well-being in our community. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) has psychologists and licensed mental health counselors who provide programs and services to students. CAPS offers crisis care appointments, individual counseling, couples/partner counseling, eating disorder treatment, alcohol and drug resources, support groups and educational workshops. Students across campus also support mental health awareness through the Green Bandana Project, where anyone with a green bandana tied to their backpack has a resource card available with recommendations for campus programs. Big Red Resilience & Well Being CAPS Facilities For non-competitive fitness opportunities, our Campus Recreation Centers offer open gyms and weight rooms, top-flight exercise equipment, swimming facilities, indoor and outdoor climbing walls, and a full slate of studio classes to help you stay dialed in. The UNL Outdoor Adventure Center also offers equipment rentals for bikes, camping equipment, canoes, kayaks, paddle boards and more. Campus Recreation Outdoor Adventures & Bike Shop Health Care The University Health Center is a comprehensive health care facility right on City Campus. Staffed by licensed medical professionals, the health center provides care for illnesses, injuries and routine concerns as well as preventive services like birth control prescriptions, annual physicals, gynecological exams, sexually transmitted infection testing and more. They also offer a full-service pharmacy, dental clinic, physical therapy, nutrition counseling, mental health medication management and other additional health services. Services Appointments We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.