Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Officers William S. Ayer Djelli Berisha Leonard Forsman Leonor R. Fuller Jeremy Jaech Libby G. MacPhee Constance W. Rice Rogelio Riojas Blaine Tamaki David Zeeck All Regents: 1861-Present Meetings 2022 Meeting Schedule Meeting Minutes Meeting Archives Governance Bylaws Standing Orders Selected Statutes Open Public Meetings Invite the Regents Contact University Leadership Board of Regents Menu Officers William S. Ayer Djelli Berisha Leonard Forsman Leonor R. Fuller Jeremy Jaech Libby G. MacPhee Constance W. Rice Rogelio Riojas Blaine Tamaki David Zeeck All Regents: 1861-Present Meetings 2022 Meeting Schedule Meeting Minutes Meeting Archives Governance Bylaws Standing Orders Selected Statutes Open Public Meetings Invite the Regents Contact University Leadership Home Board of Regents UW Board of Regents The University of Washington Board of Regents governs and stewards the University in succession to past citizens, and for the benefit of present and future citizens of the State of Washington, as provided by statute. The Board selects, supervises, and evaluates the University President. With exceptions, the Board delegates day-to-day administration of the University to the President, in consultation with the faculty, in accordance with statute. The Board of Regents consists of ten members, one of whom is a student. Regents are appointed by the Governor to serve six-year terms, with the exception of the Student Regent, who serves a one-year term. Meeting updates The next regular meetings of the Board are scheduled for Wednesday, June 8, 2022, in Gerberding 142, and Thursday, June 9, 2022, in the Petersen Room of the Allen Library. Schedule and agendas will be available at noon on Friday, June 3, 2022. Sign up to provide public comment at the meetings of the Board on Wednesday, June 8, and Thursday, June 9, 2022, using the Request to Provide Public Comment form, available at noon on Friday, June 3, 2022. 2022 Meeting Schedule Due dates and formatting guidelines for Board Meeting items Announcements Final Report of the Academic Year 2021-22 Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing published. Governor Inslee appoints Leonor Fuller to the Board of Regents. Former Regent Stan Barer dies at 82. Former Regent Robert F. Philip dies at 102. Governor Inslee appoints Leonard Forsman to the Board of Regents. The webform for requests to convene an Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing is active. Board of Regents Members 2022 Meetings Meeting Minutes Meeting Archives Governance Invite the Regents Contact Reserve Gerberding 142 ADDRESS 139 Gerberding Hall Box 351264 Seattle, WA 98195-1264 Phone: 206-543-1633 regents@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA