Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Careers : Employers Employers alt="A group of employers" Employers Build connections with future professionals. Hire the best with diversified skills required in the information age. Welcome to the information age. We educate the people with the skills to solve your problems. Our graduates are prepared to search and organize the vast flow of data, identify and establish user requirements for information, and design and evaluate solutions to information problems. Quick links Job Posting Policy Reasonable Offer Period Expectation Hire an iSchooler! Post a Position Employers can post jobs, internships, capstones, and experiential opportunities to HireUTexas powered by Handshake. Contact us for guidance on how to best promote your positions to iSchoolers! Employers can also request to host information sessions, on-campus interviews, and sponsor events by contacting the Career Development Office at careers@ischool.utexas.edu. Instructions on posting jobs to HireUTexas can be found here (PDF). Connect with us! UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022