Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Marc P. Christensen Marc P. Christensen Marc P. Christensen is dean of the Lyle School of Engineering. He is one of the nation’s key leaders in mapping photonic technology onto applications. In 2007, DARPA identified him as a “rising star in microsystems research” for his development of an adaptive multi-resolution imaging architecture, and selected him to be one of the first of the 24 DARPA Young Faculty Award recipients. From 1991-1998 he was a staff member and technical leader in BDM’s Sensors and Photonics group (now part of Northrop Grumman Mission Systems). His work ranged from developing optical signal processing and VCSEL-based optical interconnection architectures, to infrared sensor modeling, simulation, and analysis. In 1997, he co-founded Applied Photonics: a free-space optical interconnection module company. His responsibilities included hardware demonstration for the DARPA MTO FAST-Net, VIVACE, and ACTIVE-EYES programs, each of which incorporated precision optics, micro-optoelectronic arrays, and micro-mechanical arrays into large system level demonstrations. In 2002 he joined Southern Methodist University. In 2010, he was selected as the inaugural Bobby B. Lyle Professor of Engineering Innovation. He brought together a team of researchers from five institutions to develop an optical interface to the nervous system. He is the Center Director of the Neurophotonics Research Center, a DARPA sponsored University Focused Research Center developing a fiber optic interface for advanced prosthetic interfaces which will enable amputees to control a robotic limb with thought and experience sensations such as the warmth of a loved one’s hand. In 2008, Dr. Christensen was recognized for outstanding research with the Gerald J. Ford Research Fellowship. In 2011, he was recognized for outstanding and innovative teaching as a recipient of the Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor Award. Dr. Christensen has co-authored over 100 journal and conference papers. He has two patents in the field of free space optical interconnections, one pending in the field of integrated photonics, and four pending in the field of computational imaging. Dr. Christensen received a B.S. in Engineering Physics from Cornell University in 1993, a M.S. in Electrical Engineering from George Mason University in 1998, and a Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from George Mason University in 2001. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"