Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Pharmacy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Pharmacy Prospective Students Pharm.D. Professional Degree Program Graduate Programs Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures About Us Mission, Vision and Values Vision 2020 Strategic Plan Accreditation PharmD Program Quality Indicators Administration About the Dean Academic Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Policies & Procedures Facilities Visitor Information Directory Academic Departments Pharmacy Practice and Translational Research Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy People Current Students Pharm.D. Graduate Students Overview Dual Degree Programs Library and Learning Resources Commencement Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Diversity UH Center for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services AACP Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Antiracism Research Research Centers & Institutes Core Laboratory Collaborations UHCOP-DLDCCC Alliance for Drug Discovery-Development and Education Research Education Opportunities Cancer Research Education Program Office of Research News & Events Events Publications Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Golden Cougars Alumni Reunions Volunteer Opportunities Pharmacy Alumni Association Giving Where to Give Types of Gifts Giving Societies Make A Gift HelpDesk Ticketing System UH Home College of Pharmacy Prospective Students Graduate Programs Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics and Pharmacology Prospective Students PharmD Graduate Programs Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics and Pharmacology PhD Curriculum Recent Graduates Financial Aid Student Handbooks, Polices and Procedures Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes & Policy PhD Graduate Admissions Pharmacy Leadership & Administration M.S. Graduate Admissions PharmD + PhD Consecutive Program PharmD + PhD Consecutive Program Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Polices and Procedures Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics and Pharmacology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Pharmaceutical Sciences The Application Period for Fall 2022 Admissions has closed. Please check back for updates on the Fall 2023 Application/Admissions Period. To learn about the admissions process, please visit the Ph.D. Programs Admissions page. Medicinal Chemistry Concentration Students may study for a concentration in Medicinal Chemistry in the areas of (1) virtual drug screening and design; (2) high throughput screening and drug syntheses; (3) characterization of drug targets and developing of novel therapeutic interventions; or (4) therapeutic natural product screening and identification. Pharmaceutics Concentration Pharmaceutics is a multidisciplinary science that focuses on the study of the physical, chemical and biological properties of drugs and dosage forms. Cutting across the traditional disciplinary boundaries, pharmaceutics examines the relationship of drug properties to dosage form design, fabrication, evaluation and therapeutic efficacy. Students in the Ph.D. program's Pharmaceutics Concentration may develop research programs in the areas of drug delivery systems, drug stability, dosage forms and pharmacokinetics. Pharmacology Concentration Pharmacology is the study of the mechanisms of action of drugs and their effects on normal and disease states. It is a science based upon integrating chemistry, biochemistry, cell and molecular biology and physiology. Students in the Ph.D. program's Pharmacology Concentration may develop research projects in the areas of renal physiology, autonomic and central nervous systems, cardiovascular pharmacology, signal transduction, cellular physiology of exercise and aging, or protein biochemistry. View/Download Program Flier PDF* PPS Laboratory Tour via YouTube "What is Pharmacology?" via YouTube (courtesy of ASPET) Student Support Almost all of our students (international and domestic) are awarded stipends from Research or Teaching Assistantships, and are reimbursed for all tuition and fees. Please see the Financial Aid section for more details. Program Information Visit Admissions page Department/Program News News & Events (*Adobe Reader required; download latest version here.) University of Houston College of Pharmacy 4349 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, Texas 77204-5000 713-743-1239 Prospective Students Research News & Events Pharm.D. Performance Indicators Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Update Alumni Information About Us About the Dean Academic Departments Facilities Directory ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies