Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Priorities Baylor>Research>Priorities Priorities In 2018, Baylor announced purposeful, holistic plans to establish the University as the preeminent Christian research university and to pursue recognition by the Carnegie Foundation as an R1 university. In just over three years, Baylor achieved that goal, earning R1 recognition as a doctoral institution with "very high research activity." Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan, provides the framework for further growth, compelling Baylor to be a place where excellence in research advances human understanding and uncovers solutions to the world’s greatest challenges. Shaped by key input from Baylor faculty and administrators, Illuminate charts the course to impact the world in strategic areas of University strength through the establishment of five signature academic initiatives. These areas of focus include: Health Research and collaboration will span all schools and colleges across the University as we focus on environmental determinants of health, family and community. Data Sciences Data Sciences is a rapidly advancing, interdisciplinary field that relies on techniques and theories drawn from machine learning, data mining, scalable data storage, and digital communication, as well as the disciplines of statistics, mathematics, and library sciences. Materials Science Materials Science is a cutting edge field with high market demand for graduates and vast extramural funding. Investments in Materials Science will position Baylor University as a leader in these technologies. Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor University will be a recognized leader in understanding the conditions by which humans, communities, and societies flourish. Baylor in Latin America The Census Bureau projects that by the year 2030, immigration will surpass natural increase as the primary contributor to population growth in the United States. The Baylor in Latin America initiative will position the University to be one of the most extensively engaged faith-based universities in the nation with regard to engagement in the Americas. Other Research Initiatives Baylor faculty share historic strengths in areas such as business, religion, education, family and consumer sciences, education and more. Learn more about Baylor research across a variety of disciplines that enriches understanding of the ways individuals and societies work, play, learn and worship. Throughout these areas and across the university, Baylor is committed to research marked by quality, impact and visibility, undergirded by a foundational belief that all truth is God’s truth. These pursuits are supported by Give Light, Baylor’s $1.1 billion comprehensive philanthropic campaign. The campaign focuses support on facilities, research and program initiatives, student scholarships, and faculty endowment. An anonymous gift in May 2019 established the Baylor Academic Challenge, a fund which matches dollar-for-dollar gifts to establish endowed professorships and chairs in areas that support Illuminate's signature initiatives. This fund will provide up to 17 endowed faculty chairs and positions the University to pursue research at an accelerated pace. The fund also supports the recruitment of faculty leaders who champion academic excellence, Christian character, solutions and ideas that advance society and opportunities that shape the whole person – hallmarks of a Baylor education. Priorities General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact