Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News CUIMC Faculty, Staff, Students Volunteer at Armory After-school Program April 22, 2022 Columbia physicians, staff, and students led children in the Armory's after-school programs through exercise drills, stretches, and relay races. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - April 20, 2022 April 20, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Second Annual Dr. Lorna M. Breen Lecture to Feature Award-Winning Poet April 19, 2022 The lecture to honor the memory of Lorna M. Breen will be delivered April 28 by Elizabeth Alexander, a nationally recognized poet and president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Topic Campus News Students Hear from Roy Vagelos, First-Generation College Student April 18, 2022 Members of the VP&S Class of 2025 met with Roy Vagelos, 1954 graduate of VP&S, whose success in medicine and business grew out of his Greek immigrant background in New Jersey. Topic Education Association of American Physicians Honors Four Columbia Physician-Scientists April 18, 2022 The Association of American Physicians has elected Adam Bass, Catherine Schevon, Robert Schwabe, and Olajide Williams to its membership. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - April 13, 2022 April 13, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Columbia Accelerates Research into Next-Generation Radiation Therapies April 11, 2022 Heavy ions could radically improve radiation therapy for cancer treatment, but research is needed to understand how they work. With the aid of a new instrument at Columbia, scientists aim to find out. Topic Cancer Annual Interprofessional Education Day Includes Focus on Health Equity April 8, 2022 Interprofessional Education Day this year addressed the question of how health professionals can actively provide antiracist, inclusive, and equitable care through health care teamwork. Topic Campus News Tradition Takes a Twist at Transition Ceremony for VP&S Class of 2024 April 7, 2022 Second-year medical students celebrated their transition to patient-centered learning at the Steven Z. Miller Student Clinician's Ceremony. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - April 6, 2022 April 6, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top