Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Employers Post a Job Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Career Day Post a Job Recruit With Us Recruiting Policy Facts & Figures Career Day Post a Job Recruit With Us Recruiting Policy Facts & Figures Post a Job Post a Job Welcome to Mailman CareerLink. Our online system will enhance your ability to reach our students with job and internship opportunities and maximize your recruitment efforts by streamlining many of the recruiting options we provide. Use of our services is free of charge. In order to use Mailman CareerLink as an employer, you must register with the system by following the steps below: NEW EMPLOYERS WITHOUT A CAREERLINK ACCOUNT Step 1: Click here to access our employer login page. Step 2: Click on “Sign Up" or "Sign Up and Post a Job" Step 3: Enter your information. Be sure to look for your organization in the "Organization Name" field to avoid creating duplicate records. Step 4: Fill in all required fields, and click the "Submit" button to complete the account creation process. Step 5: After we approve your request (via email), you can review resume books and post as many jobs to Mailman CareerLink as you want, free of charge. EMPLOYERS WITH AN EXISTING CAREERLINK ACCOUNT Step 1: Click here to access our employer login page and log into your account. Step 2: Log in using your username (your email address) and password. If you forgot your password, please click "Forgot Password" to reset your password. Step 3: You can then post a new job, update your employer information and contact information, read announcements from the school, view your posted jobs (under “My Jobs”), edit or close a job posting, close a job listing, view/download applications, view resume books, and register for career events such as our career fairs. If you have any questions, msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu (please email the Office of Career Services.) RESUME BOOKS, CAMPUS RECRUITING, AND CAREER FAIRS To access resume books of students, please log in to CareerLink. Then click "Resume Books" on the left. You can search by resume keywords by typing into the "Resume Text Search" box. You can also search by academic department by searching under "Major." To create a resume book, click the small box at the top of the search results to select all results. Then click "Generate Book" under batch options. To schedule an employer presentation or on-campus or virtual interviews, please contact Adi Clerman or visit our page regarding recruitment partnerships. To learn about career fairs, click here. RECRUITING CANDIDATES FROM OTHER SCHOOLS AT COLUMBIA If you are recruiting for other candidates from Columbia University, such as nurses, social workers, counselors, dieticians, doctors, physical or occupational therapists, attorneys, MBAs, etc. please visit our directory of other career services at Columbia. If you are interested in creating a structured practicum for our students, please visit https://www.publichealth.columbia.edu/academics/office-education/field-practice/agencies More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care ProvidersMay 18 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers