Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Graduation 2022 Congratulations to the Class of 2022! The culmination of your hard work will end in the annual celebrations held by the School and University. Join your classmates for the exciting events listed below. The Class of 2022 includes students who graduated in November 2021, March 2022, and May 2022. For transportation options for each event, please visit the transportation and shuttles page. On May 25–29, visitors can return to this page to view the livestream for each event. Wednesday, May 25 @ 11:00 am – 2:00 pm Harvard Chan School Convocation Location: Reggie Lewis Center, Roxbury Crossing, MA 02120 The in-person program will feature remarks from Dean Michelle Williams; a keynote speaker, a graduating student speaker; and Dr. Trishan Panch, president of the Harvard Chan School Alumni Association. Graduates from the Class of 2022 will be presented individually. Thursday, May 26 @ 9:00 am – 11:00 am Harvard University Commencement Location: Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard, Cambridge MA 02138 Featuring addresses (including one salutatory in Latin) by three students from the college and graduate schools, remarks from President Lawrence S. Bacow, a celebration of honorary degree candidates, and more. HARVARD’S COMMENCEMENT WEBSITE Commencement Speaker Dr. Mamphela Ramphele has had a celebrated career as an activist, medical doctor, academic, businesswoman and political thought leader. Dr. Ramphele was co-founder of The Black Consciousness Movement with Steve Biko that reignited the struggle for freedom in South Africa. She is co-founder of ReimagineSA and co-president of The Club of Rome. Read more. Classes of 2020 and 2021 This year, Harvard Chan School will also celebrate the classes of 2020 and 2021 whose Convocation and Commencement took place virtually due to COVID-19. We hope you will return to Boston and Cambridge to participate in the pomp and circumstance for which Harvard is well known. Friday, May 27 @ 9:00 am – 2:00 pm Harvard Chan Live Location: Kresge Building, Harvard Chan School, Boston MA 02115 Saturday, May 28 @ 10:00 am – 12:00 pm Harvard Chan Convocation Location: Harvard Medical School Quad, Boston MA 02155 Sunday, May 29 @ 8:00 am – 10:00 am Harvard University Celebration Location: Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard, Cambridge MA 02138 Questions? Contact Registrar’s Office: registrar@hsph.harvard.edu For questions related to graduation applications, ETDs submissions, tuition, and diplomas. Office for Student Affairs: convocation@hsph.harvard.edu For questions related to the graduation ceremonies and awards. Office of Financial Aid: financialaid@hsph.harvard.edu For questions related to financial aid and loan exit counseling. Office for Career and Professional Development: careers@hsph.harvard.edu For career related questions. Office for Alumni Affairs: alumni@hsph.harvard.edu For questions related to alumni affairs. Congratulations graduates! Read more about the Class of 2022 Share your favorite graduation moments: #HarvardChan22 #HarvardChan21 #HarvardChan20 Powered by Curator.io News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College