Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Atlanta Home Connect Chapters Georgia Atlanta Georgia Atlanta The Atlanta Chapter has just recently been revitalized in the summer of 2020. Our chapter leader would love to get to know new and seasoned Eagles in the area, and plan social, service and game-day events! If you have any ideas you'd like to share for specific events or if you'd like to become more involved in the chapter, please reach out to us! 1,455 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Atlanta Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Heather Dean '94 Lives in: John's Creek, Georgia Major: Elementary Education/Minor in Psychology Occupation: Director of Sales and Outreach for a BPO Company Favorite BC Memory: Wonderful, smart, fun, driven roommates and friends I met at BC, who are some of my strongest most enduring friends to this day. I also truly feel the unparalleled 'people factor' of the folks who work within BC. Quality of utmost caliber and generosity of their talent, time and ideas. I loved meeting them back at school and now. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I love Boston College. I love the commitment to 'bettering' people's lives within the BC culture, and I was always very impressed with the folks who run the NYC chapter-their agileness to host on topic and current events and create a warm environment where everyone felt comfortable to join and get involved. What are your local favorites in your city?: I love Canoe restaurant, Aria, Houston's, Grapes and Grains, Chops, and more. I am 'newly' relocated here following the COVID situation affecting New York City and the company I worked for, so I have many places I want to try and I will have word back to you! I enjoy a gym routine and would like to try a pretty walk in the mountains. I am lucky to have irreplaceable friends from highschool and even from elementary school who stay in touch with. I enjoy volunteering for the Atlanta Ballet and would like to find a soup kitchen or other ways to get involved. I enjoy movies, exercise, reading, music, and art. Sports are fun to have on and to keep current with as well. I enjoy baking, reading recipes, and trying to cook. Ha ha ha. Fun Fact: I love music, art, and Broadway shows. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Ana Mirovic Contact: ana.mirovic@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok