Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Stay Connected! Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Stay Connected! OCRL Events Calendar Connect with our Events Calendar. It is the source for religious services, gatherings, and events on campus during the academic year. Listed events can easily be added to your calendar, as well! Visit here for more information about current and past programs & events sponsored by the OCRL, in addition to events around campus sponsored by other centers and departments we are connected with. OCRL "News Feed" Stay in the know about happenings coming through the Office of the Chaplains, whether it's events around campus, grants, awards, podcasts, community lectures, programs, and more that we think might interest the students, faculty, staff, alumni/ae and community that interface with the OCRL. The Chaplains Chapbook The Chaplains Chapbook: A Collection of Musings & Reflections is a biweekly newsletter that comes out of the OCRL. The hope is that this collection of musings and reflections might “provide a sustaining glimpse of inner life” for the Brown community. Subscribe here! Follow us on Social Media! You can also interface with the OCRL on Facebook! Like & follow our page for additonal content, or to share with your friends about upcoming programs. Home About News & Events News Events Chaplains Chapbook Interfaith Leadership Awards 2022 K. Brooke Anderson Lecture Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Resources on Campus Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory