Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Information for: Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Centers & Initiatives Urban Outreach Initiatives Urban Outreach Initiatives Urban Outreach Initiatives Creating a more just world requires training transformational educators who prioritize social justice and equity in classrooms and organizations. Our Office of Urban Outreach Initiatives (UOI) oversees several key programs dedicated to preparing tomorrow’s change agents. UOI efforts include the College Bound program and the Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars program. Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program As part of an intensive one-year M.Ed. program that leads to licensure, Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars learn how to flourish as K–12 teachers in urban schools through a curriculum that prioritizes critical inquiry, social justice education, and community building. More About the Donovan Program College Bound College Bound is a pre-collegiate enrichment and support program offered to a diverse group of 50-60 students in 7th through 12th grade from three Boston Public Middle and High Schools: Dr. Henderson Inclusion School, Neighborhood House Charter School, Gardner Pilot Academy. The mission of the College Bound Program is to empower students to become positive change agents in their schools and communities. Through a S.T.E.A.M (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) lens, students learn about a variety of important issues impacting their communities. Contact If you would like more information or have any questions, please contact us at urbanoutreach@bc.edu or 617-552-0695. S.T.E.A.M. Classes History Virtual Programming College Bound Alumni Network Funding Traditionally, College Bound students come to Boston College's campus every other Saturday (transportation and lunch is provided). Students spend a whole day on the college campus engaging in social justice infused S.T.E.A.M. projects (e.g., hydroponics, aquaponics, 3-D printing, laser cutting, smart greenhouse, and drones). College Bound's virtual programming has allowed its students to produce exceptional work that encompasses various S.T.E.A.M. dimensions, students' individual career and purpose journey, as well as their continued activism on fighting anti-racism and anti-Blackness. Founded in 1988, College Bound has since been at the forefront of providing resources and services to underserved students from BPS. The program is historically rooted in the BPS busing court order as means to implement the desegregation plan. Part of this plan involved connecting universities with “districts” in BPS for purposes of improving educational programs, providing more opportunities and support for students and families of color, to achieve academic success amidst the racial injustices. Working with BPS’s District 3/Area B, Boston College College Bound sought out to provide out-of-school-time enrichment for students from communities like West Roxbury, Roslindale and parts of Mattapan. Most of the CB students then attended West Roxbury High School or Urban Science Academy. However, given the high number of students who were in need of support programs and limited overall program funding, CB struggled to keep the program afloat. Fortunately, in 1991, the desegregation plan was transferred to the Boston School Committee, which allowed partnerships between BPS schools and Boston College to remain. With additional funding from State Street Bank, New England Telephone and Bull HN, Brighton High School was included as a new partner. In 1992, the first cohort of College Bound students enrolled in a college, and since then the numbers have only continued to grow. As the program started gaining more momentum and support, a $1 million grant from the Peter Jay Sharp Foundation – with half designated as an endowment for College Bound – was awarded in fall 2001. Today, the Lynch School and National Science Foundation fund the program as well. This has allowed College Bound to expand their services to 7th and 8th grade students from Gardner Pilot Academy and Dr. Henderson Inclusion School. In 2004, the fomer director, Catherine Wong, saw the need to integrate the College Bound under the umbrella term "Urban Outreach Initiatives." This re-organization allowed the students of College Bound to access a network of educators of color, of school partnerns in and around the Greater Boston Area, and most importantly, the resources that Boston College has to offer. In leveraging this wealth of resources and network, the program which began with an enrollment of 40 students per year, increased to 75 students per year. This success culminated in the 30th year anniversary in 2018. College Bound Celebrates 30th Anniversary Despite the successes, the constant struggle to maintain partnerships and ensure sufficient streams of funding remains. In December 2018, the Boston School Committee voted to close down West Roxbury High School and Urban Science Academy. As a result, over 700 students and their families were forced to transfer to another school district. Among the affected students, many of whom were regular participating students at College Bound. Less than 2 years later, College Bound is again faced with an unprecedanted challenge, the COVID-19 pandemic. To address institutional challenges, the Lynch School of Education and Human Development went through another re-organization and decided to integrate College Bound under the Department of Strategic Initiative External Relations. Today, the College Bound community is still dealing with the aftermath of the school closure, along with a new set of challenges pose by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, it has stood its ground and will continue to create new partnerships and enhance the quality of its programming. As the program enters its 4th decade, College Bound will only continue to promote its interdisciplinary collaborative nature, and place emphasis on diversity and inclusion. Ever since March 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19, College Bound has shifted its programming to a virtual format. In leveraging virtual conferencing technology, as well as various other easy-to-use and accessible educational tools, students were able to complete the Spring semester virtually, all of which culminated in an end of semester virtual showcase. The success of the Spring semester allowed College Bound to host a virtual summer institute over a 2 week period in the summer of 2020. Students worked with instructors and College Bound staff to design their own learning goals and create their own projects. Project topics include Microbits, 3-D printing, TinkerCAD, and Artifical Intelligence. In addition, students were provided opportunities to explore and reflect on their purpose and future careers amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. More importantly, students were given the space to learn about activism in a virtual world and to craft their own counter-narratives in the wake of the Black Lives Matter movement. By the end of the 2 week summer institute, students presented their work in a virtual Gallery Walk. Our alumni network is still growing, with 31 years of graduates that we are working hard to reconnect with. The alumni network offers opportunities for alums to stay connected, feel supported, and give back. College Bound is supported in part through the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, The Peter J. Sharp Foundation, and the National Science Foundation. Collaborative Partnerships Urban Outreach Initiatives is involved in several partnerships with Boston College offices, Donovan Scholar and College Bound alumni, and local and national efforts that impact diversity and inclusion within our urban schools and communities. Our intent is to develop unique collaborations that allow diverse students' voices to be heard and their change agency recognized. These collaborations include but are not limited to: St. Joseph Preparatory High School's College Road Program. Urban Outreach Initiatives' has also developed a sought after Early College Exploration program that provides school aged students with a campus visit to include college application advisement, an overview of the admissions process and a honest depiction of student life from the perspective of first generation and students of color from Boston College. Contact Want to partner with us? Email Urban Outreach College Road College Road is a unique four year transitional program that empowers the young women and men of Saint Joseph Prep High School to envision themselves thriving in college and beyond. Through participation in College Road, students and their families will be introduced to strategic ways to review and assess a variety of pathways to college. They will also learn more about the critical need to develop key skills necessary to navigate the college process successfully. St. Joseph Prep Site Early College Exploration The Early College Exploration program seeks to provide students at partner schools with unique, learning opportunities about different aspects of college life from admissions to student life. Innovative and specialized programs are offered to each school and have included interactive panel discussions with a diverse group of BC undergraduates, visits to BC's campus, activities taught by BC professors, and special access to select BC atheletic events. Partner schools have included: Russell Elementary School (Boston, MA) Winthrop Elementary School (Boston, MA) Trottier Middle School (Southborough, MA) The Wilson Middle School (Natick, MA) Prospect Hill Charter Academy (Cambridge, MA) Heath Elementary School (Brookline, MA) Conservatory Lab Charter School (Boston, MA) Key Initiatives at LSEHD Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Formative Education Urban Outreach Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College