Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma Autism Healthy Weight The Hassenfeld Study Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Injury and Poisoning The Injury and Poisoning projects use data from hospitals and national surveys to assess various outcomes, with Lifespan's Injury Prevention Center serving as a key partner. LEARN MORE The Injury outcomes that are being studied include a) neighborhood risk factors for pediatric fall-related injuries b) the association of neighborhood liquor stores and socioeconomic risk with adolescent emergency department visits c) frequent emergency department use by children d) national pediatric ED utilization and reliance by insurance coverage and d) national ED visits owing to traumatic brain injury among infants. The Poisoning outcomes that are being studied include a) neighborhood disparities in lead poisoning b) patterns of lead screening and exposure in children born prematurely c) likelihood of inpatient admission in emergency department visits for pediatric burn patients in Rhode Island. Key Projects in Injury and Poisoning 1. Neighborhood disparities in Lead Poisoning This project involves statewide spatial analysis to assess the extent to which neighborhood-level disparities in lead poisoning persist in Rhode Island. learn more 2. Lead & Prematurity This project compares patterns of lead screening and lead exposure among children born premature and full term, in Rhode Island. learn more 3. Fall-Related Injuries This project assesses the association of neighborhood risk and the presence of public outdoor recreational facilities in each block group with pediatric fall rates. LEARN MORE 4. Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use This project assesses the association of neighborhood risk and the presence of liquor stores in each block group with adolescent Emergency Department utilization rates. LEARN MORE 5. Frequent ED Use This project assesses ED visit frequency by the demographic and health characteristics of children who visit the ED to better understand risk factors for high ED utilization. learn more 6. ED Use & Insurance Coverage This project examines the annual ED utilization of children aged 0 to 17 years, by insurance coverage. learn more 7. Traumatic Brain Injury This project compares intentional and unintentional injury mechanisms of traumatic brain injury (TBI) in infants and examined time trends for each. learn more 8. Burns This project assesses the association of neighborhood risk with inpatient admission following an emergency department visit for burns. learn more Our Work Asthma Autism Healthy Weight The Hassenfeld Study Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top