Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Designing Your Career Course Home Events and Programs Designing Your Career Course Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Jumpstart Your Career Journey The Career Center offers a one-credit hybrid course designed for students who are exploring their career interests. You will dive into concepts featured in the best-selling novel Designing Your Life: How to Build a Well-Loved, Joyful Life by Bill Burnett and Dave Evans and learn strategies to achieve meaningful professional goals. Details Dates Fall and Spring Semesters Class Years Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors Majors/Schools All MCAS, WCAS, and Applied Psych Majors How to Register Register during fall and spring course registration Overview Designing Your Career (DYC) is taught by Career Center career coaches. Upon completion of the course, you will be able to: Identify at least one career field that aligns with your interests that you would like to further explore. Identify at least one skill you hope to incorporate into your career paths that aligns with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify at least one career resource available to you given your current career needs. Articulate 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Fall 2022 Sections Designing Your Career: An Exploration Course (UNAS1016.1) Tuesdays, 4:30–6:00 p.m. Tara Raposa Designing Your Career: An Exploration Course (UNAS1016.2) Wednesdays, 4:30–6:00 p.m. Sal Cipriano The Impact of Designing Your Career Allie Garret, MCAS '21 Spring 2019 DYC student "After taking the class, I became more confident in my decision to switch my major from pre-dental to communications. I was locked into the pre-dental when I came to BC, but this class has taught me that it is totally ok not to know what you want to do off the bat. I feel like this class would benefit a lot of people who are struggling to pin down exactly what they are interested in." John Gehman, MCAS '21 Fall 2018 DYC student "Primarily, the DYC class changed how I thought about myself and my aspirations. The activities we did helped me to connect all of my different interests. I’m an International Studies major and it can be really broad. I was able to discover that within my major, I am specifically interested in human rights, indigenous rights, and LGBTQ rights." Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College