Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Student Wellness Main Navigation After-Hours Immunization Requirements Privacy Practices/Patient Rights Announcements Resources COVID-19 Contact Us / Make an Appointment Counseling & Psychological Services Health Services TitanWell SHAC Advocacy Health Insurance You@Fullerton TITAN HEALTH PORTAL At this time, COVID-19 testing is limited and priority will be given to students who are experiencing symptoms or have recently been exposed and employees exposed on campus or required to test weekly. Employees who are experiencing symptoms or have been exposed off campus should contact their health care provider or acquire a FREE test through Orange County Health Care Agency testing resources. Employees can schedule a surveillance testing or on-campus exposure appointment via the Titan Health Portal. Students seeking a test can schedule a testing appointment via the Titan Health Portal. For any questions, please contact Health Services at (657) 278-2800. Counseling and Psychological Services continue to offer services virtually. For more information please call (657) 278-3040. Welcome to Student Wellness Student Wellness strives to heal and support the Titan community through accessible, high-quality care and prevention education. Your success begins with health; your health begins with us. Updated January 10, 2021 We at Student Wellness have been closely following the anti-Black violence happening across our nation. While our services support the health needs of all students, we want to specifically acknowledge our support for the Black Lives Matter movement at this critical time in our nation’s history. Student Wellness stands in solidarity with our Black students, faculty, and staff against systemic racism. As systemic racism is not just a social pandemic, but a health one as well, our department has created an interdisciplinary team to assess critical health equity issues as they relate to our quality of care. This team, the Health Equity and Advocacy Task Force, will provide staff trainings and updates to departmental policies reflecting our commitment to social justice. Student Wellness is currently open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. for virtual and limited in-person services. To access care and support, please call us at (657) 278-2800. ONGOING HEALTH ALERT: Coronavirus (COVID-19) information Trouble coping? CAPS HEALTH CONCERN? HEALTH SERVICES HEALTH INFO? TITANWELL This site is maintained by Student Wellness. Last Published 1/10/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hcwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.