Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Op-ed by Eisgruber and University of Illinois chancellor Jones focuses on immigration bill to help keep STEM grad students in U.S. — but argues it must also include the humanities and social sciences The Office of Communications April 12, 2021, 3:09 p.m. An op-ed by President Christopher L. Eisgruber and Chancellor Robert Jones of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign on the Biden administration’s comprehensive immigration reform bill now before Congress was published by ROI-NJ on April 7 and The News-Gazette on April 11. Eisgruber and Jones argue the United States should remove the barriers that hinder the ability of international graduate students from a wide array of fields — not only STEM but also the humanities and social sciences — to work, live and study in the United States and contribute to society through their research, innovation and initiative. The full text of the op-ed follows: Immigration bill would help keep STEM grad students in U.S. — but must include more majors Robert Jones Photo courtesy of the University of Illinois. In 1958, a young Israeli doctoral student came to Berkeley, California, to study psychology. He eventually spent most of his career in the United States. The student’s name was Daniel Kahneman, and he helped to create the field of behavioral economics, won a Nobel Prize, and became an inspiration to many Americans — from scholars and policy-makers to CEOs and baseball executives. American doctoral programs remain magnets for talent. Our universities attract the best and brightest from around the world, just as they did in 1958. The next generation of Danny Kahnemans are here now, not just in psychology but in a wide variety of other fields. They can make our country stronger, and we should keep them in the United States if we can. The Biden administration’s comprehensive immigration reform bill now before Congress would go a long way toward fixing our broken system, including making it easier for certain science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) graduate students to stay in America. That is a smart first step, but the current bill is narrower than it should be. It does not, for example, apply to the field of psychology, so it would not have helped the young Danny Kahneman. That is a mistake. The challenges facing America are complex. Tackling them requires many skill sets. Yes, America needs computer scientists, physicists and engineers, but we also need agricultural economists, humanists and psychologists. We should be trying to keep far more of the exceptional doctoral talent we are cultivating at America’s research universities. For example: historians and philosophers will help to guide the civic conversations required to bridge social differences and restore public trust. Agronomists and natural resource experts are key to addressing our most pressing global challenges, from food insecurity to climate change. Sociologists, anthropologists and area studies experts provide knowledge crucial to navigating international crises. To address the next pandemic effectively, we need behavioral scientists and experts in global health, infectious disease, immunology and virology, as well as computer modelers. Christopher L. Eisgruber Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Of course, academia is only one arena where international Ph.D. recipients can contribute to our society. Students with doctorates in agriculture, for example, are future leaders in food services or agricultural production throughout business, government and the non-profit world. People with doctorates in the humanities will fortify America’s cultural institutions, and graduates with natural resources degrees are poised to lead in wildlife conservation or management. We know these fields are important: American research universities already make a huge investment in their doctoral students across all disciplines. These students in turn make critical contributions to address the great challenges of our day. Many want to stay, and we should want them to do so. We also have the evidence of history to guide us. We have built the most admired, most productive and most inclusive higher educational system in the world over the past century. This system has been the driver of unmatched educational opportunity and social and economic growth and prosperity. We should stay the course, pushing forward along a proven road to America's sustained success. This is the moment to act. For the past four years, we watched with alarm as the federal government — in ways large and small — jammed the gears of the legal immigration system and made it increasingly difficult for law-abiding immigrants to work, live and study in the United States. We are heartened by the Biden administration’s recent measures to undo this damage, including restoring the DACA program. The President’s Executive Order tasking agencies to adopt a more sensible and hospitable immigration system sets exactly the right tone. These are important and essential actions, but we must do more to attract and retain the world’s best talent. Making it easier for doctoral students to work and live in the United States will encourage extraordinary people to study here and to contribute to our society after they graduate. American history has demonstrated that one of our country’s greatest strengths is the ability to attract superb talent from throughout the world. We see that talent all around us at our universities. Do we want these remarkable doctoral candidates to stay and contribute to our society after we have trained them? You bet we do, and we look forward to working with the administration and Congress to make that possible. Christopher L. Eisgruber, President of Princeton University Robert J. Jones, Chancellor of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Related Stories Princeton and Microsoft continue their support of DACA program with new federal filing Read more Eisgruber expresses ‘deep concerns’ over proposed changes on non-immigrant visas and training Read more Princeton joins Supreme Court brief challenging administration immigration restrictions Read more President Eisgruber's annual State of the University letter, 2020 Read more Princeton, Microsoft, Maria Perales Sanchez ’18 welcome Supreme Court ruling to restore DACA Read more Eisgruber, leaders of New Jersey universities express concern to Congress about immigration delays Read more Fighting to protect Dreamers: Why Microsoft and Princeton University are taking their case to the Supreme Court Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice