COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Pre-law Facts Section Menu LAS Advising Main Make an Appointment What to Expect from Advising Degrees and Careers Certificate Programs Pre-law Information Pre-Medical Advising LAS I Course Descriptions Exceptions/Petitions Information Student Resources About/Contact Pre-Law Information "What should I major in if I plan to go to law school?" Although law schools traditionally have encouraged pre-law students to acquire a broad liberal arts education, law schools do not require students to major in a particular discipline or to take specified undergraduate courses. Just about any major is acceptable, and law schools do not have a checklist of preferred "pre-law courses." Most law school applicants have pursued a traditional liberal arts curriculum; the second largest group of law school applicants comes from business schools. Liberal arts students should take some courses in the College of Business, particularly economics and perhaps a year of accounting. Conversely, business students should take work outside their major in traditional liberal arts courses. Prospective law students should consider the following: Select a major that is academically rigorous and which will encourage independent and analytical thinking. Select a major you find interesting. Since no particular major is "required," there is little point in majoring in a subject you find uninspiring. Indeed, the pre-law student may pursue a broadly based liberal studies curriculum by completing any of the baccalaureate degrees offered in WSU's Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. One aspect of a liberal arts education is to give students knowledge of a wide variety of subjects. When selecting elective classes beyond your major or concentration, choose rigorous courses which require critical and analytical thinking and writing. (Research papers and essay exams are an advantage!) Emphasize fundamentals. This means you should understand quantitative methods of analysis. The use of quantitative methods and statistical techniques is becoming more important in all fields of endeavor, including law. In addition, the ability to organize your thoughts and to express them clearly in writing has always been important. Both writing and oral communication skills are particularly important for pre-law students. Before selecting a major or individual courses which purport to teach "law," keep in mind that a student with wide knowledge of history, literature, philosophy, and economics will be better equipped for law school than one who has completed a more limited undergraduate course of study. Specific sections of the LSAT focus on logic and analytical reasoning, so prior background will prove beneficial. Consider taking Philosophy 125, Introduction to Logic. The LSAT is scheduled four (4) times per year and is given on the WSU campus. Some pre-law students initiate employment as legal assistants or "runners" in local law firms. The experiences gained through this involvement may help to clarify and confirm professional goals and may also contribute to more effective selection of an academic major or concentration. Several on-campus resources, including the Cooperative Education Program, are available to assist students with possible placement. Good planning for admission to law school begins with the choices one makes in the first semester of college. Initiate a contact with one of the pre-law counselors indicated below as soon as possible after beginning university classes. You'll receive assistance in outlining a plan of study, which will meet your interests and needs. In this way you will build a network of resources, which will make the actual application process for law school in your junior year a good experience. The Pre-law Handbook is published annually by the Association of American Law Schools and the Law School Admission Council. This volume discusses pre-legal education and other requirements for law school and admission. Recommended Courses CJ 315 Criminal Law CJ 394 Courts and the Judicial System PHIL 125 Introduction to Logic PHIL 311 Philosophy of Law POL S 551 Public Law Legal Education Accelerated Degree (LEAD) program Wichita State University and KU Law School jointly operate the LEAD program, which will allow undergraduate Wichita State students to enroll in the KU Law School after successfully completing three years of undergraduate studies. For more information, click here. Contacts For further information concerning law schools, academic program planning, or the admissions process for law school, please feel free to contact any of the following pre-law counselors: Name Department Address Phone Marti Smith School of Community Affairs 314 Lindquist Hall 978-6679 Neal Allen Political Science 418 Lindquist Hall 978-7133 Jeffrey Hershfield Philosophy 307 Fiske Hall 978-7883 Alternatively, your initial contact may be with one of the academic advisors in the Liberal Arts and Sciences Advising Center, which is located in Grace Wilkie Hall, Room 115. You can also contact the LAS Advising Center at 316-978-3700, option 2. Additional Information University of Kansas School of Law Washburn University School of Law American Bar Association (Scholarship information) Contact Us Beginning June 1, 2021, scheduled appointments can be in person, or via phone or zoom upon request. Please contact the LAS Advising Center at 316-978-3700 option 2. LAS Advising Center Location: Grace Wilkie Hall, Room 115 Email: LAS.Advisor@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-3700 option 2 Fax: (316) 978-3858 Office Hours Monday – Tuesday 8 a.m. – 6:00 pm Open 5 – 6 p.m. by appointment only Wednesday – Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Advising by appointment only Walk-In Advising Social Media LAS Advising Main About Student Resources Events Please check back for upcoming Law School visits. Navigate LAS Advising Main About 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©