Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram About HGSE Messages from the Dean HGSE Speeches and Articles "Historic Gift Allows HGSE to Expand Scholarship Aid for Teachers" HGSE News, Feb. 2, 2022. "HGSE Launches Online Ed Leadership Master's Program Targeting Mid-Career Professionals" The Harvard Crimson, Dec. 10, 2021. "A Time Like No Other" Orientation Welcome Ceremony 2021. Prepared remarks, Aug. 30, 2021. "Let's Make This Year a Turning Point." Commencement 2021. Prepared remarks, May 27, 2021. AOCC Welcome Remarks Alumni of Color Conference 2021. Prepared remarks, Mar. 6, 2021. "Pivot" Ed Magazine, Fall 2020. “More Than Just a Place.” Orientation Welcome Ceremony 2020. Prepared remarks, Aug. 24, 2020. "Education's Critical Role During an Uncertain Time." Commencement 2020. Prepared remarks, May 28, 2020. "Celebrating Our Centennial and Looking to the Future." Opening remarks at HGSE's Centennial Kickoff. Jan. 30, 2020. “Because the Future of Education.” HGSE Centennial coverage. Ed Magazine, Winter 2020. “For Those Not Here.” Commencement 2019. Prepared remarks, May 30, 2019. “You Belong Here.” Orientation Welcome Ceremony 2019. Prepared remarks, Aug. 26, 2019. Important Community Messages "Standing together as we mourn those lost in Uvalde, Texas" A message to the community addressing the elementary school shooting in Uvalde, Texas. May 24, 2022. "Recognizing the Legacy of Slavery at Harvard and Beyond" A message to the community responding to a landmark report, HGSE to lead reflections on how the legacy of slavery is embedded in the field of education. Apr. 26, 2022 "Expanding the HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Office" A message to the community announcing the expansion of the HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Office. Apr. 12, 2022. "HGSE is going Mask Optional" A message to the community with an update on Harvard's mask mandate. Mar. 7, 2022. "COVID Procedures for Reopening Campus on January 24" A message to the community with COVID updates for HGSE's 2022 spring semester. Jan. 14, 2022. "Supporting our local school districts" A message to students residing in Greater Boston regarding an opportunity to address the significant teacher shortages. Jan. 7, 2022. "HGSE Homecomings" A message to students and alumni announcing HGSE Homecomings. Oct. 28, 2021. "Important Updates on the Reopening of Campus" A message to faculty and staff on the campus reopening process and the necessary steps to return to campus safely. July 29, 2021. "Emerging Stronger from This Year" A message to the community announcing the Rest, Refresh, and Restore series. Apr. 20, 2021. "The Unfinished Business of Creating a More Just Society" A statement from Harvard University leadership reaffirming their commitment to standing against racism. Apr. 19, 2021. "HGSE Return-to-Campus Planning" A message to faculty and staff regarding HGSE's plans for returning to campus. Mar. 22, 2021. "Addressing Anti-Asian Hate and Racism" A statement addressing the hate and racism aimed at the Asian American Pacific Islander community. Mar. 17, 2021. "Results from the Midyear Student Experience Survey" A message to students regarding the results from the midyear student experience survey and HGSE's response. Mar. 3, 2021. "HGSE Commencement Celebrations" A message to students regarding HGSE's 2021 virtual commencement exercises. Feb. 26, 2021. "Resources for the HGSE Community" A message to the community following the attack on the U.S. Capitol. Jan. 6, 2021. Archived Messages Widen Layout: wide In this section About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information About HGSE About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice