Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Financial Services Menu About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans Baylor>Student Financial Services>Student Financial Aid>Return of Federal Funds Return of Federal Funds You are awarded federal aid based on attendance for an academic term and the number of hours you are enrolled. When you do not complete an academic term (withdraw), federal regulations (34 CFR part 668.22) require that Baylor University returns any unearned portion of Federal aid that you received, or may be eligible to receive, based on the number of days attended. Federal aid (also known as Title IV aid) includes the following funds: Direct Subsidized Loans, Direct Unsubsidized Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, Pell Grants, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOGs), Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants (IASG), and Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarships (CoFH). All schools must use the same federally mandated formula in determining the amount of aid you have earned, and the amount of aid that you and Baylor are required to return to the financial aid programs. Federal regulations also determine the order of the financial aid programs from which federal funds must be returned. Federal direct loans will be returned first, then federal grants and scholarships. After the 60% point in your enrollment period, all Federal funds will be 100% earned and will not need to be returned. Official Withdrawals If you decide to withdraw from Baylor, you are required to complete the online Withdrawal form and notify the Paul L. Foster Success Center (Online graduate students should contact their school for instructions). The Success Center will notify the Student Financial Aid Office of your withdrawal. You will receive a letter from our office notifying you of any Federal aid that you are eligible to keep or that you may be eligible to receive (in the event you are eligible for but have not yet received the aid at the time of withdrawal). You will need to read this letter carefully and take any action that may be required. Learn more about the University Withdrawal Process. Unofficial Withdrawals If you leave the university without following the Official Withdrawal procedure, it will result in an Unofficial Withdrawal and “Failure” of all courses for which you are registered. The process for an Unofficial Withdrawal will start after grades are posted after the last day of classes. If you receive all Failures (F-grade), Incompletes (I-grade), or No Credits (NC-grade), the Student Financial Aid Office will contact the professors of your courses to determine the last date of attendance. If a date cannot be determined, the midpoint of the semester will be used as the last date of attendance and funds will be returned based on that date. If you were unable to provide notice of an Official Withdrawal yet ceased attending courses due to circumstances beyond your control, Baylor University may use a date related to that circumstance as your last date of attendance. Learn more about the University Late Withdrawal Policy. Module Course Withdrawals If you are enrolled in modules, a course/courses in a program that do not span an entire period of enrollment (for example, Summer I and Summer II), you may be required to return Federal funds if you withdraw. In order to keep Federal funds, you must complete at least 49% of days in the full payment period (for example, Summer I and Summer II together); or you must complete coursework equal to or greater than the coursework required for half-time status (6 hours). Please contact the Student Financial Aid Office if you have questions regarding the impact of your possible withdrawal on your Federal financial aid. Counselors will be able to provide you with an estimate of your adjusted Federal aid based on your expected withdrawal date. Learn more about the University Cancellations/Withdrawal Policies. Baylor University processes withdrawals within 30 days from the official date of notification and returns Federal funds within 45 days following the Department of Education guidelines. Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs VERIFICATION PAY YOUR BILL CONTACT US LOCATION Limited Access to Clifton Robinson Tower Financial Aid, Student Accounts and One Stop (first floor) are open to walk-in visitors, however we encourage students to reach us via phone, contact us form or virtual office visit while a construction project occurs at the Clifton Robinson Tower. Parking is very limited. More information about how to contact us can be found here. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Student Financial Services Student Financial Accounts One Bear Place #97048 Waco, TX 76798-7048 Student Financial Aid One Bear Place #97028 Waco, TX 76798-7028 Student Financial Accounts: 254.710.2311 Financial Aid: 254.710.2611 Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Law & LL.M. Cancellation & Withdrawal Policies Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law LL.M. Tuition & Fees Seminary Summer Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Departmental Scholarship Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Federal Aid, Work-Study, And Alternative Loans Financial Aid Application Process Scholarship Options International Student Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans