Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Statistical Science and Data Analytics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Statistical Science and Data Analytics Major Apply Request More Info Statistical Science and Data Analytics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Statistical Science and Data Analytics Learn how to effectively apply strong quantitative and data analytic techniques to today’s complex business problems with the Bachelor of Science in Statistical Science and Data Analytics in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Statistics is an important function of almost every STEM field, and through a curriculum with multiple opportunities to gain real-world experience, graduates of the program emerge ready to succeed in a variety of fields. This program is designed to immerse students in data analysis, statistical methodology, and modern languages such as Python, R, SAS and others. This program includes a capstone course offered in collaboration with an industry partner where students analyze industry data to solve a real-world problem. Students who graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Statistical Science and Data Analytics emerge prepared to be decision-makers in almost every facet of business as well as various levels of government, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and other industries where large data sets need to be analyzed, understood and explained. Faculty & Research The Statistical Science Department has 20 full-time faculty members, many of whom are fellows of the American Statistical Association and other international societies. They have won numerous awards for teaching at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Faculty publish their research in top-tier academic journals, and several have ongoing research grants from federal agencies such as the National Science Foundation. Learn more about research in Statistical Science at Fox. Classes & Curriculum Statistical Science and Data Analytics majors study data science, predictive analytics, statistical computing and survey design to build a depth of knowledge related to statistics and data analytics. Some of the core required courses include Quantitative Foundations for Data Science; Data Analysis and Statistical Computing; Regression and Predictive Analytics; and Time Series and Forecasting Models. Learn more about courses for the Statistical Science and Data Analytics Major. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS Business Administration MBA Financial Analysis MS Marketing MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Related Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Statistical Science and Data Analytics majors can participate in the American Statistical Association’s Temple University Chapter. The organization brings in employers from various industries to network with students and discuss how they apply statistics and data analysis in their lines of work. Explore the full list of Fox student clubs and organizations. Program Contacts For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-SSDA-BS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Statistical Science and Data Analytics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info