Jump to navigation Member's/PADDS Login Search form Search Subscribe How To Subscribe Subscription Policies, Terms and Conditions Products TULSA® Database Online Vendors Selection and Indexing Policy Controlled Vocabulary Thesaurus Petroleum Abstracts Bulletin Bulletin Formats and PAnet Services BRICKS Online Search Aids Unconventional Resources Services Petroleum Abstracts Document Delivery Service (PADDS) Fees and Services McFarlin Library Catalog Search Strategy Workshops Resources Guide to the PA Service (pdf) Training Videos Sample PA Bulletin (pdf) Sample PA Bulletin (html) TU Students, Faculty and Staff Historical List Of Publications (pdf) Sitemap McFarlin Library Catalog About Frequently Asked Questions Work Groups Scientific and Technical Analysis Contact Scientific and Technical Analysis Editorial Processing Service Contact Editorial Processing Service Computing and Data Services Contact Computing and Data Services Marketing and Subscriber Services Contact Marketing & Subscriber Services Administration & Training Contact Adminstration and Training PA History Contact Us Contact Form Directions to Petroleum Abstracts Website Issues Subscriber Login Request Job Postings Petroleum Abstracts is the world's leading information source for published scientific and technical knowledge related to oil and gas exploration and production (E&P). abstract n. ab-strakt a summary of a text, scientific article, document, speech, etc.; epitome. To date, Petroleum Abstracts has produced over 1.2 million abstracts. Learn more Hot Topics Search Try a Petroleum Abstracts Hot Topics search to see how many relevant records you’ll find in the TULSA database, and view a sample abstract. Learn more Petroleum Engineering at TU The University of Tulsa is noted for having one of the world's premier programs in petroleum engineering. Founded in 1928 it quickly achieved an excellent national and international reputation. Learn more Document Delivery McFarlin Library In addition to drawing on publications covered by Petroleum Abstracts, PADDS can supply copies of documents from the vast literature holdings at The University of Tulsa's McFarlin Library. Learn more The University of Tulsa The University of Tulsa is a forward-thinking, private university where dedication, excellence, commitment, and integrity are central to our mission. Learn more   Quick Links Who We Are Subscriber Benefits Guide to PA Service (pdf) Document Delivery Frequently Asked Questions TU Students, Faculty and Staff Petroleum Abstracts Flyer 2021 List of Publications Hot Topics Search What makes PA the best choice for E&P information? Founded in 1961, Petroleum Abstracts today is the oil and gas industry's preeminent information resource for coverage of E&P-related scientific and technical knowledge. PA lets you find and sort through E&P-related material from around the world. It helps you locate the information you need, quickly and conveniently. TULSA database Growing at the rate of about 40,000 entries per year, the online TULSA database contains more than 1.2 million entries dating from 1965 to the present. The database is updated with Petroleum Abstracts coverage weekly. TULSA includes precise, consistent and comprehensive indexing, so you can find the exact information you need. Facebook Other PA Resources Petroleum Abstracts Document Delivery Service (PADDS) can deliver any available full-text document cited by PA. The BRICKS Online Search Aids offer a Web-based guide to PA's extensive, controlled-vocabulary thesaurus of index terms. Other PA products and services help our subscribers search for and find relevant E&P information. Petroleum Abstracts Bulletin The PA Bulletin gives you a concise, convenient overview of published E&P information. Containing about 800 items each week, the Bulletin is delivered by e-mail 50 weeks per year. It can be posted on a subscriber's internal network for access throughout a subscribing company or organization. Did you know... In addition to drawing on publications covered by Petroleum Abstracts, PADDS can supply copies of documents from the vast literature holdings at The University of Tulsa's McFarlin Library. Subscribe How To Subscribe Subscription Policies, Terms and Conditions Products TULSA® Database Petroleum Abstracts Bulletin BRICKS Online Search Aids Unconventional Resources Services Petroleum Abstracts Document Delivery Service (PADDS) Search Strategy Workshops Resources Guide to the PA Service (pdf) Training Videos Sample PA Bulletin (pdf) Sample PA Bulletin (html) TU Students, Faculty and Staff Historical List Of Publications (pdf) Sitemap McFarlin Library Catalog About Frequently Asked Questions Work Groups PA History Contact Us Contact Form Directions to Petroleum Abstracts Website Issues Subscriber Login Request   Petroleum Abstracts - The University of Tulsa 800 South Tucker Drive - MLIC 1520 - Tulsa, OK 74104 Main Phone: (918) 631-2296 © All Rights Reserved