Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> About The Libraries About The Libraries Libraries Overview A page providing a broad overview of the FSU Libraries. Member Libraries The Florida State University Libraries include eight libraries on the Tallahassee Campus and several other Libraries, Museums, and Research Centers throughout the world. Departments The FSU Libraries is comprised of five divisions, each containing multiple departments. Accessibility at FSU Libraries The Florida State University Libraries is committed to providing an inclusive and accessible experience to all library users. Diversity and Inclusion The University Libraries is dedicated to the ideals of diversity, inclusion, and equity. We endeavor to embody those ideas every day in all of our work. Giving to FSU Libraries With your support, we can continue to expand our world-class offerings, purchase additional books and journals and make more technological resources available to everyone in the FSU community. Facts and Figures FSU Libraries use data to drive its decision making to improve access, services, and collections for the FSU population. Strategic Plan The FSU Libraries are aligned with the FSU Strategic Plan, and we have designed a website so that anyone can access current information on our progress. Advancement Board The purpose of this organization is to focus attention on the mission of University Libraries in support of excellence in scholarly resources and research services for the University. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!