home Home About Us Education NSF Scholarships for &nbspService DoD Cybersecurity &nbspScholarships Cyber Security Research Academics & Scholars NSF Scholarship for Service (SFS) applications and DoD Cybersecurity Scholarship Program (CySP) applications The Center for Security and Assurance in Information Technology (C-SAIT) was established in 2000. Its mission is to serve as a focal point for members of different academic disciplines, government, and industry, to carry out world-class research and to advance the practice and public awareness of information technology security and assurance through education and public service. C-SAIT is dedicated to the synthesis of education and research through combined focus on the theory and applications of Information Security. The primary research function of the Center is to provide an environment that fosters world-class, applied research in information security technology, with a focus on innovation and learning. Florida State University was designated by the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), a Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense (CAE-CD) and a Center of Academic Excellence in Research (CAE-R) for the period 2014-2021. The Center for Security and Assurance in Information Technology coordinates and manages these programs at FSU. Florida State University was first designated by the NSA a Center of Excellence in Information Assurance Education (CAE-IAE) in 2002 and by NSA/DHS a Center of Excellence in Research (CAE-R) in 2008. Student Opportunities & Resources NSF CyberCorps(R) Scholarship for Service (SFS) program The Scholarship For Service (SFS) program is designed to recruit and train the next generation of information technology professionals, industrial control system security professionals, and security managers to meet the needs of the cybersecurity mission for Federal, State, local, and tribal governments. This program provides scholarships for up to 3 years of support for cybersecurity undergraduate and graduate (MS or PhD) education. The scholarships are funded through grants awarded by the National Science Foundation. In return for their scholarships, recipients must agree to work after graduation for the U.S. Government, in a position related to cybersecurity, for a period equal to the length of the scholarship. SFS applications are currently being accepted Visit C-SAIT's DoD Cybersecurity Scholarship Program NSA/DoD Cybersecurity Scholarship Program (CySP) Given our increasing reliance on cybersecurity, information technology (IT), the growing threats to information, and information systems and infrastructures, it is critical that the Department of Defense (DoD) protect itself. For this purpose the DoD Cyber Scholarship Program (DoD CySP) was established, sponsored by the DoD Chief Information Office and administered by the National Security Agency (NSA). The objectives of the program are to promote higher education in all disciplines of cybersecurity, enhance the Department's ability to recruit and retain cyber and IT specialists, increase the number of military and civilian personnel in the DoD with this expertise, and ultimately, enhance the nation's cyber posture. Visit C-SAIT's DoD Cybersecurity Scholarship Program Featured Links Below is a list of links to common academic and government websites. Be sure to check out the rest of C-SAIT's extensive collection of links useful for students focusing in Cyber Security by browsing the menu on the left side of this page. CERIAS - Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security at Purdue University NSA CSS - National Security Agency (NSA) Central Security Service DoD - U.S. Department of Defense DHS - Department of Homeland Security NSF - National Science Foundation NIST - National Institute of Standards and Technology Last Updated: May 5, 2022 Designed & Published by FSU C-SAIT. Please view our legal notices and privacy policy.