Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Arts and Humanities The College of Arts and Humanities provides a dynamic incubator for artistic explorations of every kind, from literature to philosophy, fine arts to digital media and theater to music. You’ll explore your boundaries in state-of-the-art facilities, develop your talents under the guidance of faculty who practice what they teach and learn real-world lessons through cooperative community partnerships. cah.ucf.edu We’re the first university to offer an MFA and MS in Themed Experience. The Bachelor of Arts degree in Writing and Rhetoric is the first of its kind in Florida. The English Department is named the 2nd Best Online English and Humanities Program. The UCF Ethics Team consistently places in national competition. in the top 50 public animation schools and colleges in the U.S. UCF is the only school in the nation that offers a professional jazz studies degree, 24/7 NPR jazz station and an active jazz record label. Explore your creativity. Mixing inspiration and ingenuity, the college offers 25 undergraduate degree programs, including Fine and Performing Arts, English, History, Animation, Music, Philosophy, and Modern Languages. Or browse by: Bachelors Masters Doctorates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Philosophy (BA) Music (BA) Photography AS to BS Humanities and Cultural Studies (BA) Creative Writing (MFA) History (MA) Theatre (MFA) Interactive Entertainment (MS) Texts and Technology (PhD) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Arts and Humanities News Check out more stories Arts & Culture Using the Arts to Take a Deep Dive into the Sea Pegasus Professor Stella Sung’s composition Oceana: Sounds of the Sea will invite patrons at UCF Celebrates the Arts into a story they will never forget. Arts & Culture Knights Do That: How Music Enhances Your Life Chung Park, director of UCF’s Symphony and Chamber Orchestras, shares his gift and passion for teaching, insight on UCF Celebrates the Arts, and how you can… Arts & Culture Alum, Local Artist Creates New ‘Elevation’ Mural for UCF Downtown Located in the east wing of Dr. Phillips Academic Commons, the mural intends to uplift each viewer. Protector of the Past Meet Porsha Dossie ’14 ’18MA who helps preserve American history for the National Park Service’s African American Civil Rights Network. Read her story. University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida