Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Service, Support & Logistics Graduate School Skip to Navigation Service, Support & Logistics Bookstore Visit the Brown Bookstore for all your supplies and technology needs. The Bookstore offers a full line of electronic products, including iPads, software, peripherals, and related supplies. There also house an in-store authorized Apple and Dell Service, Repair, and Consultation Center, and a broad selection of collegiate and casual clothing. Computing & Information Services The Computing and Information Services IT Service Center offers technical support to members of the Brown community. Learn more about all aspects of network access, computer use, software, printing, and technology training on campus. Dining Services Read about flexible eating plans and the dining facilities on campus. Dining Services offers a variety of options related to students’ tastes, preferences, and hectic lifestyles. Mail Services Learn more about mail and package delivery on campus and how your mail should be addressed. Public Safety (DPS) Learn more about services offered to students (emergency phones, Safewalk, Campus Watch) and tips for staying safe on campus. Police and Public Safety Officers patrol the campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week in patrol vehicles, on bicycles, and on foot and the Communication Control Center can be accessed 24 hours a day. Student Accessibility (SAS) SAS coordinates services and accommodations for students who may need accommodations related to medical, physical and psychological concerns as well as assisting students with Attention Deficit Disorder, learning disabilities, sensory conditions and more. Transportation Learn how to get around on and off campus with a variety of services offered by the Transportation Office. Brown offers evening and onCall ride programs, weekday campus transport for students with disabilities, a daytime shuttle service, free bus service through RIPTA and more. Title IX Office Find out about assistance and services offered by the Title IX office and campus coordinators. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants