Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Institutional Scholarships Information about institutional financial aid available to new and continuing GS students. Expand all Collapse all Undergraduate Students How the GS Institutional Aid System Works In addition to aid from federal and state governments or private sources, GS undergraduate students may apply for institutional aid, which does not have to be repaid. Institutional aid is derived from three sources: endowment returns, annual gifts, and general University funds. All prospective and current undergraduate students are eligible to apply for a scholarship regardless of enrollment status (half or full time) or academic history. Students admitted for or after the fall 2021 semester are required to complete the CSS Profile (CSS Code 2095) to be considered for GS institutional aid. Students who wish to apply for federal student aid, but are not interested in applying for GS institutional aid are not required to complete the CSS Profile. Please email the Office of Educational Financing at [email protected] if you are not interested in applying for GS institutional aid. Student-veterans who are eligible for Chapter 31 Veteran Readiness & Employment (VR&E) or eligible for Chapter 33 Post-9/11 GI Bill at 100% AND eligible for the Yellow Ribbon Program are not required to complete the CSS Profile. Please visit Financial Aid For Military Veterans for more information regarding financial aid options. Scholarships are awarded to students with demonstrated financial need and are influenced by academic achievement. Funding is limited and current students must apply by the deadline each year in order to be given priority consideration. Named Institutional Scholarships The School of General Studies Institutional Scholarship Fund is supported by a number of generous donors. A student who completes a GS scholarship application is automatically considered for an award from any of the School's funds for which the student qualifies, and if selected, will be notified by email. How to Apply Prospective and New Students U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents Prospective student applicants for institutional aid who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents must submit all of the following by the appropriate deadlines: CSS Profile (CSS Code 2095) Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) International Students International students who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents do not need to complete the FAFSA to receive institutional aid, but must submit all of the following by the appropriate deadlines: CSS Profile (CSS Code 2095) International students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents must complete the FAFSA, in addition to the CSS Profile, in order to be considered for institutional aid. For consideration for GS institutional aid, complete family and parental information is required on the CSS Profile application from both custodial and non-custodial parents. If the parents have separate households (unmarried, separated, or divorced,) complete financial information for both parental households must be provided on the application. Please note: all applicants who are at least 36 years old by December 31 will not be required to provide parental information. Continuing Students U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents Continuing students interested in institutional aid who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents must submit all of the following by the appropriate deadlines: Continuing Student Scholarship Application Form: Access via the Columbia GS Student Success Portal, in the “Forms” section. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Planned Enrollment Form In order to access the Planned Enrollment Form, you will need your Columbia Student ID number, or PID, which consists of the letter C followed by 9 numbers. Your PID can be found on any page in SSOL (if you do not see it, change your viewing options). International Students International students who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents must submit all of the following by the appropriate deadlines: Continuing Student Scholarship Application Form: Access via the Columbia GS Student Success Portal, in the “Forms” section. International Student Financial Aid Assessment Form: Access via the Columbia GS Student Success Portal, in the “Forms” section. Planned Enrollment Form In order to access the Planned Enrollment Form, you will need your Columbia Student ID number, or PID, which consists of the letter C followed by 9 numbers. Your PID can be found on any page in SSOL (if you do not see it, change your viewing options). Policies Governing GS Scholarships All scholarship recipients must reapply every year. Eligibility for GS scholarships requires at least half-time enrollment (6 points). Scholarships are typically only available for the fall and spring semesters and are not available for summer enrollment. Funding options for summer enrollment will be publicized in the annual notice for scholarship renewal each March. Continuing students in Columbia University-sponsored study abroad programs—i.e., a program administered by Columbia University—may have their scholarships credited to their University student accounts. Students studying abroad on a Columbia-approved program—i.e, a program not administered by Columbia University—are not eligible for institutional scholarships during their time abroad. Students are advised to contact the GS Office of Educational Financing before beginning their studies abroad. Scholarships are not generally available to tuition-exempt students or to those who take more than 124 points to complete their degree. This may include students who belatedly change their major and must exceed 124 points for completion. The Scholarship Committee meets annually to review applications and award scholarships for the following academic year. Application results are mailed to all applicants. Eligibility for a Scholarship Grant: Independence and Dependence For purposes of establishing eligibility for federal student aid, students 24 years old or older are considered independent. This means independent students are not required to provide parental information when completing their FAFSA, and that your eligibility for Federal Grants, Federal Loans and/or Federal Work-Study will be determined on the basis of their resources, and those of their spouse (if applicable). For consideration for GS institutional aid, complete family and parental information is required on the CSS Profile (CSS Code 2095) application from both custodial and non-custodial parents. If the parents have separate households (unmarried, separated, or divorced,) complete financial information for both parental households must be provided on the application. Part of GS institutional calculation relies on the basis of family financial strength as demonstrated by the student and parental data submitted on the CSS Profile. Please note: all applicants who are at least 36 years old by December 31 will not be required to provide parental information. If you have circumstances that would make obtaining parental information impossible, you can submit a petition to waive the parent requirements. If you feel that you will be unable to complete this component of the financial aid application please schedule an appointment to discuss your circumstances with your Educational Financing counselor. Institutional aid at the School of General Studies is limited and we are unable to meet the full need of our students. As a first step toward addressing the unmet financial need faced by GS students, the CSS Profile will be used to collect more comprehensive financial information from our aid applicants to enable a more robust assessment of their financial need. GS Institutional Aid Appeal Students are able to appeal their institutional aid decisions. GS institutional aid is limited and we are unable to meet the full need of our students. Our ability to respond to student appeals is primarily based on availability of funding. It is often difficult to know what resources can be allocated to student appeals until the review of all standard aid applications and the admissions cycle for each semester draws to a close. Students must meet with the Office of Educational Financing before submitting an institutional aid appeal. Following this meeting, students will be provided with specific instructions on how to submit their institutional aid appeal Please note the following circumstances are not eligible for appeal consideration: Consumer debt such as credit card debt Currency devaluation for families residing abroad Additional aid for enrolling in more than 12 credits Special Scholarships Osher Reentry Scholarships Thanks to the generous support of the Bernard Osher Foundation, each year GS will award ten $5,000 scholarships to academically promising students, with demonstrated financial need, who have had a cumulative gap of five or more years in their undergraduate education. All qualified applicants for GS financial aid will be considered for this award. Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship Scholarships are available each academic year to PTK members. While reviewing applications, the GS Scholarship Committee will select students eligible for the scholarship based on academic and financial need criteria. There is no separate application process for the scholarship, but applicants for the scholarship should note their affiliation with PTK when applying. Program for Academic Leadership and Service (PALS) The Program for Academic Leadership and Service (PALS) is a scholarship designed to provide access to a Columbia undergraduate education for students who might not otherwise be able to attend an Ivy League university. Students do not apply specifically for PALS. To be named a PALS Scholar, a student must meet most or all of the following criteria: Be a first generation college student Be a member of a historically underrepresented group at Columbia High financial need Demonstrated ability to succeed in a highly competitive academic environment Willingness to complete a leadership/service component of 30 hours per year PALS scholarship recipients are nominated by the Office of Admissions. The PALS Committee will review the pertinent academic and financial information of the nominees and then make a final determination. In most cases, tuition and fees for PALS Scholars will be met through a combination of federal and state grants, work-study opportunities, and institutional scholarships. Living expenses, which are part of a PALS Scholar's overall cost of education, may be met with work-study opportunities, as well Federal Direct loans. Deadlines Continuing PALS Scholars must strictly observe all financial aid deadlines. Failure to do so may result in the loss of the scholarship. Continuing PALS Scholars are also expected to review the Document Tracking section of SSOL to ensure that all financial aid documents have been received. Program Requirements To maintain status in PALS, a student must: Uphold a grade point average of at least 3.0 Complete a semester at full-time if the student began the semester (and was funded at) full-time enrollment Complete all necessary financial aid documents by the appropriate deadlines (GS Scholarship Application, FAFSA, and Planned Enrollment Form) Meet regularly with a PALS advisor Document 15 hours of service to Columbia or the student's local community each semester Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Started in 2016 by the Columbia Business School’s Tamer Center for Social Enterprise, and now administered by the Columbia Global Centers, the Scholarship supports displaced students from anywhere in the world who are unable to complete their higher education in their home country. Students who are accepted to the School of General Studies and receive the scholarship will receive full tuition, housing, and living assistance while pursuing their undergraduate degree, reflecting Columbia’s full institutional commitment to addressing this global crisis. The School of General Studies offers two scholarships per academic year to eligible students through a competitive application process. Applying to the School of General Studies Students interested in applying for the Scholarship for Displaced Students must apply and be offered admission to the Columbia University School of General Studies. Please note that an offer of admission to the School of General Studies does not guarantee that you will be awarded the Scholarship, as the number of applications is greater each year than the number of scholarships we are able to offer. Students who intend to apply to the Scholarship for Displaced Students should apply to the School of General Studies by March 1. Decisions for both admission and the scholarship will be released concurrently by May 15. Information about the application process for the School of General Studies is available by visiting: gs.columbia.edu/content/how-apply. As you prepare your application to the School of General Studies, it is important to note that the process of applying for university admission in the United States differs greatly from processes in many other countries. A list of documents required to apply for admission to the School of General Studies, is available on the GS Admissions page. Some important exceptions for the Scholarship for Displaced Students are noted below. Official* transcripts from all secondary schools, colleges, or universities attended Unofficial documents are accepted as part of the application review process. In the event that you are offered admission, you will be required to submit official documents in order to enroll. Official documents are those submitted electronically from your college or school. If electronic documents are not available from your previous educational institutions, we will accept mailed copies of the transcripts sent directly from the issuing institution to the Office of Admissions of the School of General Studies. Paper transcripts may not be delivered or forwarded by a student. If offered admission, you should submit official transcripts using just one of these methods. Official* test score For students applying for the Displaced Students Scholarship, Duolingo has offered a limited number of test fee waivers for their English proficiency test. Once you successfully submit your online application form for the School of General Studies, please email our offices and we can send you a voucher code for this test. Please note that the School of General Studies normally charges an application fee of $80. Students applying for the Displaced Students Scholarship will be granted an application fee waiver upon receipt of TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo scores that demonstrate the minimum scores noted above. Displaced Student Scholarship form and supporting documents, found by visiting: cusds.globalcenters.columbia.edu/ (see below for further details) Scholarship Eligibility The Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students is open to foreign nationals with refugee status living anywhere in the world, or who have received US asylum or submitted a US asylum application, or who are in the US under Temporary Protected Status. For more information on the scholarship, please visit the scholarship information homepage. Scholarship Submission Instructions Before submitting an application to the Scholarship for Displaced Students, students must apply for admission to the School of General Studies. Acceptance to the School of General Studies DOES NOT guarantee funding through the scholarship, and it is possible for students to be offered admission to GS but not receive funding through the scholarship. Once the applicant creates their online degree application, they will receive an application ID / reference number through their school's respective application system. This ID / reference number must be entered in the scholarship application form to be considered for the scholarship. **To be considered for the scholarship, CUSDS applicants must submit the following form in its entirety no later than their degree program's application deadline.** Scholarships for Students from Community Colleges Community-college students are eligible for any GS scholarship; however, the scholarships below are designed specifically for students transferring to GS from community college. Applicants do not need to apply specifically for any of the scholarships below; by completing the GS scholarship application you will be considered for the following scholarships. Bergen County Community College Scholarship This scholarship is designed to award excellence in academic achievement and potential for students who intend to transfer to GS. Westchester Community College Scholarship This scholarship is designed to recognize students who intend to transfer to GS and who have a demonstrated record of academic success in a rigorous curriculum. CUNY Community College Scholarship This scholarship offers ten new student scholarships in the amount of $12,500 per semester specifically for students who have attended a CUNY community college. This scholarship takes into account a candidate’s merit and financial need and requires completing all the steps for financial aid at GS. The CUNY Scholarship is awarded on a rolling basis by the GS Scholarship Committee. Expand all Collapse all Postbac Premed Program Students How the GS Institutional Aid System Works GS has a limited scholarship program for Postbac Premed students who are registered for at least six points and who are beginning their orgo-bio year. Awards range from $1,000 - $4,000 and are based upon both merit and need. How to Apply When the scholarship period opens, information about applying will be posted in the Postbac Premed Announcements section of the website, and included in the bi-weekly News and Announcements email. Make an Appointment GS Office of Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5410 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Payment and Account Inquiries Columbia University Student Financial Services 205 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4400 http://askus.columbia.edu Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Cashiering windows in 210 Kent Hall close at 4 p.m. daily) Work-Study Program Work-Study Office 210 Kent Hall (212) 854-6232 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close