COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Philosophy, Major MajorPhilosophy All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Philosophy A Bachelor of Arts (BA) in philosophy from Wichita State will help you improve your critical thinking, logical reasoning, communication and research skills. If you want to double major, philosophy is a valuable addition to many other degrees such as pre-law, pre-med, political science, journalism and others. It is also excellent preparation for graduate studies and many careers—from law and teaching to business and politics. Learn how philosophy is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the philosophy major, you'll take a minimum of 27 credit hours in philosophy, 15 of which must be in courses numbered 300 and above. Your departmental advisor will help you choose courses that fit your academic interests and career goals. Students interested in pursuing a concentration can choose between the following options: Ethics Pre-Law World Philosophy View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience in diverse areas—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Philosophy (Minor) Linguistics (Minor) Computer Science History Communication - Strategic Communication Pre-Law 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©