Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU About Events Online Resources Bienvenidos Search 83aa1ab0a756074ef6734270e3b9b436 Visit Accessibility A Day in Harvard Square Directions and Parking Groups and Tours Host an Event Hours and Admission Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Online Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Collections & Research Search the Collection Collections Overview Conservation Engage with Collections Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Publications Research Rights and Reproductions Learn K-12 Colleges and Universities Online Resources Welcome The Peabody Museum shares cultural heritage from around the world. We welcome you to engage and learn in person or online Learn more about what we do Collections & Research Visit Events Exhibition Muchos Méxicos Explore Mexico’s rich history as a site of human innovation, creativity and cultural diversity. See more exhibitions Museum at Home Online Resources Watch lecture and exhibit videos, see online exhibitions like Listening to Wampanoag Voices, explore 3D models in detail, listen to podcasts, and more. See all online resources Collections Collections Overview The Peabody Museum cares for a large and historic collection of anthropological materials from across the globe, including more than 1.2 million individual cultural items, 500,000 photographic images, and associated archival records. Learn more about the breadth and scope of the collections Learn Find resources for Harvard University educators and students, for other colleges and universities, and for K–12 groups. See resources for educators and students Announcements Message from the Peabody Museum Director January 28, 2021 Dear Members of the Peabody Community, Founded in 1866, the Peabody Museum is intricately linked to 19th-century legacies of settler colonialism and imperialism both in the United States and around the globe. In its development as a premier research and teaching institution, the Peabody directly benefited from collecting practices that we recognize today ignore the wishes and values of families... Read more about Message from the Peabody Museum Director Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections February 2, 2022 The Peabody Museum is delighted to announce that Stephanie Mach has accepted the position of Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections and will be starting in early April 2022. Stephanie Mach (Diné) is a citizen of the Navajo Nation and an anthropologist.... Read more about Stephanie Mach to Join as New Curator of North American Ethnographic Collections In Memoriam: Wayne A. Newell January 19, 2022 The Peabody acknowledges the passing of Passamaquoddy scholar Wayne A. Newell. Recruited to attend Harvard’s Graduate School of Education in 1970 as part of the newly established American Indian program, he dedicated his life to the preservation of the tribal language as an educator, storyteller, author and singer of Passamaquoddy music. Mr. Newell recently took part in a panel to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the... Read more about In Memoriam: Wayne A. Newell See all news Harvard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 The Peabody Museum is one of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Visit About Events Bienvenidos Join Terms of Use Report a Website Problem The Peabody Museum is located on the traditional territory of the Massachusett people. Exhibitions Collections & Research Learn Online Resources Website Survey Tab Help Improve Our Website 1f69a77c2231fb4eaf16965ca0408aeb 4b7cdb578f7f96565678010216267206 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement