Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Bomb Threats Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Security Alerts Staying Safe Crime Prevention Vehicle Accidents Sensitive Crimes Active Shooter Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter in Place Office Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Bomb Threats The University of Houston Police Department has developed a “Bomb Threat Checklist” to be used in the event that someone places a bomb threat against any property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the University of Houston. Copies of this checklist have been distributed campus wide, and UHPD recommends that a copy be kept by all office phones. A copy of the checklist can also be obtained here. If a bomb threat is received, simply use and complete the checklist when speaking with the caller. After the caller hangs up, immediately report the threat to UHPD by calling 911. Remain by your desk until the officer(s) arrive. Please give the completed checklist to one of the responding officers. A supervisory officer shall, as soon as possible, notify the person in charge of the threatened building and provide adequate information in order to allow for informed decisions. Search of Buildings All searches shall be conducted by UHPD Officers with the assistance of the senior manager of the threatened building and with the aid of those Faculty / Staff members familiar with the building and its contents. Evacuation of Buildings The decision to evacuate a building upon receipt of a bomb threat is made on a situational basis – i.e. how credible is that particular threat. Buildings may be evacuated immediately at the discretion of the Chief of Police in concert with the senior management official within the threatened building (if available). Additionally, each individual police officer has full authority accorded them by the President's office to cause the evacuation of any University building under exigent circumstances. Once the decision to evacuate has been made, UHPD Officers responding to the location will direct you to safe locations away from the building. Notifications UHPD is responsible for all notifications upon receipt of a bomb threat. Publicity The University’s response to all press inquiries regarding Bomb Threats shall be coordinated through University Media Relations. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies