Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Research in Mathematics Education About Us Projects Projects Measuring Early Mathematical Reasoning Skills STEM Academy Project STAIR STEM +C Publications Presentations Previous Research Professional Development Professional Development 2019 Research-to-Practice Conference 2018 Research-to-Practice Conference 2017 Research-to-Practice Conference 2016 Research-to-Practice Conference 2015 Research-to-Practice Conference 2014 Research-to-Practice Conference 2013 Conference Summary 2012 Conference Summary Contact Us Collaborations Collaborations Partners in Research Fellows 2017 PiR: Community Conversations on Early Mathematics 2018 PiR: Classroom Assessment and Learning Theories 2020 PiR: Observation Validity Working Group Meeting ☰ Research in Mathematics Education Simmons Research Research in Mathematics Education About Us Projects Professional Development Collaborations We are committed to engaging in research and outreach that will make a significant and lasting difference at the student, classroom, school, district, state and national levels. 2021 STEM+C Minecraft Project Computational Thinking, Game Design, and Educational Assessment Featured on NSF’s 2021 STEM for All Video Showcase National Science Foundation has awarded Corey Clark, Ph.D., Leanne Ketterlin Geller, Ph.D. and Eric Larson, Ph.D. a $1.5 million four year grant to research teaching computer science and computational thinking via Minecraft. Efforts to increase intrinsic interest in math and data science have proven difficult to apply evenly across gender, race, and socio-economic factors. This research project will assist in creating a more stable, ethical, and inclusive data science workforce by broadening the interest in data science to a more diverse population of students. This research spans the fields of game design, human computer interaction, machine learning, curriculum design and educational assessment by integrating essential computer science standards directly into Minecraft. The game and infrastructure produced through this research will serve as a vital computing resource for middle and high school educators that will be sustained beyond the current project. 2020 NSF STEM for All Video Showcase Developing STEM Access in Students K-2 through MMaRS 2020 winner of the Public Choice competition < The purpose of the Measuring Early Mathematical Reasoning Skills (MMaRS) project is to provide teachers in Grades K-2 with technically rigorous classroom assessment resources from which they can gather data about students’ development of understanding in Numerical Relational Reasoning and Spatial Reasoning. In this video, we describe the importance of these early mathematics constructs, illustrate the iterative nature of our research to articulate and empirically validate learning progressions, and share prototypical classroom assessment tasks designed to elicit student thinking and reasoning in the constructs. RME News Conference Presentations Learn more about RME projects disseminated at recent educational research conferences around the country and world. Presentations Measuring Early Mathematical Reasoning Skills This fall, the MMaRS team conducted cognitive interviews centered on Spatial Reasoning to help provide evidence for the MMaRS Spatial Reasoning Learning Progressions. These data will help us investigate the ordering, conceptualization, and interconnectedness of the MMaRS Spatial Reasoning Learning Progressions. Check out our blog for resources for parents and teachers. Read more. Integrating Human Computer Interaction, Machine Learning, Game Design, and Educational Assessment in a STEM+C Curriculum National Science Foundation has awarded a collaborative group of SMU researchers from Education and Engineering a $1.5 million four year grant to research teaching computer science and computational thinking via Minecraft. PI Corey Clark, Ph.D. and Co-PIs Eric Larson,, Ph.D. Read more. Project STAIR Supporting Teaching of Algebra: Individual Readiness uses data-based individualization (DBI) to partner with middle-school teachers to improve math outcomes for students with learning difficulties. Read more. RME Researchers Recent Article Published in Applied Measurement in Education Latest article from the RME team proposes the Assessment Triangle for operationalizing and instantiating validation. Read more. Tweets by RME_SMU Research-to-Practice Conference RME's annual conference synthesizes the latest education policy, and presents practical solutions for K-12 mathematics educators. Learn more. Response to Intervention Resources RME's work with TEA includes the state's guidance project delivered via a mobile app and website and has since expanded to include five webinars by leading experts in RTI. Learn more. Contact Research in Mathematics Education Contact Us 214-768-MATH (214-768-6284) rme@smu.edu Visit Us Expressway Tower 6116 N. Central Expressway, Suite 1150 Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter