Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services> Planning, Design and Construction Management> Asbestos in Construction, Renovation and Maintenance Activities - Version 1 Asbestos in Construction, Renovation and Maintenance Activities Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG07.20.01 Title Asbestos in Construction, Renovation and Maintenance Activities Category Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services Sub-category Planning, Design and Construction Management Authority Chancellor History 2004, Asbestos in Construction, Renovation and Maintenance Activities Placed in University Policy Manual after EXPEDITED REVIEW, transitioned without substantive change from prior version, March 25, 2013. Contact Assistant Director, 328-6166 Associate Vice Chancellor, 328-6166 Related Policies ECU Construction Standards Additional References Occupational Health and Safety Administration Environmental Protection Agency NC Department of Environment and Natural Resources Guidance for Controlling Asbestos-containing Materials in Buildings and Managing Asbestos in Place: A Building Owner's Guide to Operations and Maintenance Programs for Asbestos-Containing Materials (available at the office of EH&S for review) 1. Introduction 1.1 Purpose: East Carolina University has developed a program to ensure minimal disturbance of asbestos-containing materials associated with construction, renovation and maintenance activities (includes Telecommunications/ITCS cable installation, etc.). 1.2 This primarily affects Facilities Services and ITCS, but applies to every University affiliated department and includes both in-house and contractor activities. 1.3 Intact and undisturbed asbestos materials do not pose a significant health risk. Asbestos-containing material that is in good condition, and is not damaged or disturbed, is not likely to release asbestos fibers into the air. When asbestos-containing material is properly managed release of asbestos into the air is prevented or minimized, and the risk of asbestos-related disease can be reduced to a negligible level. 2. Definitions 2.1 Suspect Materials: There are buildings at the University that have some type of asbestos-containing material. These "suspect materials" include, but are not limited to, thermal system insulation, fireproofing, floor coverings, ceiling tiles, cement piping, and acoustical and decorative treatments for ceilings and walls. All "suspect material" is presumed to be asbestos containing until it is sampled by an accredited inspector and analyzed by an accredited laboratory. 3. Responsibilities 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) 3.1.1 The Office of Environmental Health and Safety will provide review and approval of construction, renovations and maintenance activities involving "suspect materials". 3.1.2 EH&S will maintain an asbestos sample database and provide accredited personnel to conduct small-scale inspections. 3.1.3 An annual evaluation of the program will be provided by EH&S along with an annual training to all affected University personnel. 3.1.4 Training shall include, but not limited to: 3.1.4.1 Information regarding asbestos and its various uses and forms; 3.1.4.2 Information on the health effects associated with asbestos exposures; 3.1.4.3 Location of asbestos-containing materials, recognition of damage, deterioration, and delamination of asbestos-containing materials; 3.1.4.4 The name and telephone number of the person designated as Program Administrator. 3.2 Requesting Department (Facilities Services, ITCS, etc.) 3.2.1 Any construction, renovation or maintenance conducted by the requesting department will be in accordance with this document. 3.2.2 The requesting department must receive written/electronic approval from EH&S prior to initiating project. 3.2.3 The department is responsible for costs associated with any response/remediation required for unauthorized activities. 3.2.4 They must provide (Contact EH&S) asbestos awareness-training opportunities to all affected University personnel prior to any construction, renovation or maintenance activities. 3.2.5 The Project Manager must provide information to affected University and /or contractor personnel regarding the specific location of asbestos-containing material for each project. 3.2.6 They must also ensure that University and /or contractor personnel not disturb any material until they have confirmed with the project manager that it does not contain asbestos. 4. Procedure 4.1 Prior to initiation to any construction, renovation or maintenance activity involving "suspect materials", the project manager/responsible personnel must submit a request to Environmental Health and Safety. 4.1.1 Copies of work orders or an e-mail request including the location and scope of the project must be provided. 4.2 EH&S will review asbestos sample data and provide guidance to minimize disturbance of asbestos-containing material. 4.3 When adequate data are not available then the area must be inspected by an accredited inspector and samples taken accordingly. 4.3.1 Standard sample turnaround is 7 to 10 days - so advance notice must be provided to avoid extended delays. 4.3.2 Emergency turnaround is available, but it significantly increases the sample costs. 4.4 Large-scale inspections may require the services of an accredited contractor. 4.5 EH&S has a limited sample budget for routine, small-scale maintenance and repair activities. 4.6 Sample costs for property acquisitions, construction/renovation projects, etc. should be included as part of the project and are the responsibility of the requesting department. 4.7 EH&S will provide a verbal response to the requesting department followed by written or electronic approval/disapproval. 4.7.1 The requesting department must not proceed with the activity until they receive the written/electronic approval. 4.8 Activities that will disturb asbestos-containing material must be performed by an accredited contractor or alternative methods utilized to avoid disturbance of material. 4.8.1 Alternative methods must be approved by EH&S. 4.9 When the services of an accredited contractor are required, the project must be coordinated by the Facilities Services Work Center and Environmental Health and Safety 4.10 Any unauthorized activity discovered or reported to EH&S will be terminated immediately. 4.10.1 Any costs associated with the unauthorized activities will be the responsibility of the department with project oversight. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier