Skip to main content Boise State University Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search Student and Campus Safety The safety of our students, faculty, staff and campus guests is the highest priority of Boise State University. Campus leaders are committed to doing everything possible to prevent sexual misconduct and other crimes, as well as harassment, incidents of hate and bias, and other misdeeds that go against the university’s mission and our Shared Values. When necessary, the university will act quickly to respond to reported incidents and mitigate allegations — and to support our students, faculty, staff and others in as many ways as possible. Boise State has a long and expansive set of integrated resources, support services, security efforts, educational opportunities and response teams in place to prevent sexual assault and harassment, other crimes, and incidents of hate and bias — is in a continual process of reviewing, updating and improving these efforts. Nearly all of these offices, services and supports are open to the entire campus community — including students, faculty and staff. Report a Crime In any emergency, call 9-1-1. If you experience, witness, or suspect criminal activity on campus you can call 9-1-1 or the Department of Public Safety at (208) 426-6911. If you have information about a crime that has occurred on campus but wish to report the information anonymously, call Crime Stoppers at (208) 343-2677 or fill out Boise State’s “Silent Witness” form. Your information will be taken with the strictest confidence by specially trained personnel. Tipsters are issued code numbers to protect their anonymity and are never asked to provide their name or personal information. COVID Response Learn more about how to help keep our community safe, health guidelines and available resources on Boise State’s COVID Response site. Sexual Misconduct and Title IX If you feel you or someone you know has been discriminated against on the basis of sex, Boise State University is here to help. Reports of sexual harassment and assault, relationship violence, and stalking are taken seriously by Boise State. To file a formal complaint, fill out the form on this web page. To find out more about Title IX, contact Danielle Charters, Title IX Coordinator, at (208) 426-1258 or ReportDiscrimination@boisestate.edu. Retaliation for filing a complaint is prohibited under Title IX and the university will take instances of retaliation seriously and promptly respond to reports. To get support without filing a complaint — or to get help determining whether and how to file a complaint — confidential services are available on campus: Gender Equity Center: Serves the entire campus community of faculty, staff and students and can provide confidential support and advocacy. Student Union, 2nd floor, (208) 426-4259, genderequity@boisestate.edu. University Health Services: Provides a full range of primary care, referral and educational services. Call for an appointment. Urgent care is also available on a first-come, first-served basis. Norco Building, 2nd floor, (208) 426-1459, healthservices@boisestate.edu. University Counseling Services: Provides mental health services that enhance student growth and development, help improve personal effectiveness and resilience for student success. Norco Building, 2nd floor, (208) 426-1459, healthservices@boisestate.edu. Discrimination, hate and bias To file reports of discrimination or incidents of hate and bias, contact the Office of Institutional Compliance and Ethics at (208) 426-1258 or reportdiscrimination@boisestate.edu. Stay Connected BroncoAlert is a phone and text-based system allowing the university to notify students, faculty, staff and others when an emergency is taking place on or near campus. Students are automatically included, but anyone else on or off campus can opt in. To opt-in to BroncoAlert, follow the instructions on this web page. Rave Guardian is a free mobile app that offers multiple easy and automatic ways to stay safe and connected to friends, family and Boise State Public Safety. Find out much more about this valuable app and download Rave Guardian here. Your Campus Home Student Support Boise State has an integrated and coordinated set of services and supports to ensure all our students are safe, welcome, empowered and connected. The Dean of Students Office Students with any question or need can start here. The Dean of Students Office Students with any question or need can start here. The Gender Equity Center Find a supportive environment for people of all gender identities to explore, celebrate, and learn more about gender equity. The Gender Equity Center Find a supportive environment for people of all gender identities to explore, celebrate, and learn more about gender equity. The CARE Team Get assistance to help assess and find solutions for managing distressing, disturbing, disruptive, and dangerous behavior. The CARE Team Get assistance to help assess and find solutions for managing distressing, disturbing, disruptive, and dangerous behavior. University Health Services Offers convenient, accessible and high quality health services on campus. University Health Services Offers convenient, accessible and high quality health services on campus. Student Equity This office helps make sure every Bronco feels welcome, supported, celebrated and connected. Student Equity This office helps make sure every Bronco feels welcome, supported, celebrated and connected. Our Shared Values The foundation of Boise State's civil and nurturing environment. Our Shared Values The foundation of Boise State's civil and nurturing environment. Campus Security A partnership of Boise State’s professional security team and the City of Boise’s police force provides 24-hour security, response and support across campus. Free 24-Hour Campus Security Escorts Free 24-Hour Campus Security Escorts Free 24-Hour Campus Security Escorts Contact Security and Police Services Contact Security and Police Services Contact Security and Police Services Boise Police Department Boise Police Department Boise Police Department Boise State Policies on Sexual Misconduct, Harassment, Relationships and Conduct Boise State Policy #1065, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence and Stalking Boise State Policy #12000, Clery Act Compliance Boise State Policy #12040, Workplace Violence Boise State Policy #1060, Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Boise State Policy 7010, Consensual Relationships Boise State Policy #7015, Faculty/Staff and Student Consensual Relationships Boise State Policy #7450, Classified Employees Due Process Procedure and Appeal Boise State Policy #2020, Student Code of Conduct Boise State Policy #3240, Maintaining Effective Learning Environments Campus Safety Tour Campus Safety Map Our interactive campus map shows all the blue security phones throughout campus, as well as each of the automated external defibrillators. See the safety map Boise State University +1 (208) 426-1000 1910 University Drive, Boise, Idaho 83725 - Idaho's Metropolitan Doctoral Research University Follow Us Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University Back To Top This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to collect information about how you interact with our website and allow us to remember you. We use this information in order to improve and customize your browsing experience and for analytics and metrics about our visitors both on this website and other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Statement. Close Message