Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information for: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Center for Ignatian Spirituality Menu Main Nav Center for Ignatian Spirituality Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Prayer Overview Retreats 19th Annotation Prayers at the Center Workshops Programs Events Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Center for Ignatian Spirituality at Boston College, founded in 1998, communicates the vision and history of the University's Jesuit mission and the spirituality of St. Ignatius Loyola. Center's Mission Reflections From the Depths The Center for Ignatian Spirituality has asked: How do you live your life in times of social distancing and confinement? Our first reflection comes from Gustavo Morello S.J., associate professor in the Sociology Department. View additional reflections on the CIS YouTube channel. Play Virtual Examen This Friday, join The Office of Ignatian Spirituality (OIS) to take a deep breath, remember that we are in the presence of God, and spend a few minutes in prayerful reflection. The examen will begin at 4 p.m. (EDT) and will take just a few minutes. If you are new to the examen, learn more from ignatianspirituality.com. Participate in the examen Foundations Beginning to Pray in The Ignation Way Foundations is a program for those who are thinking about doing the Spiritual Exercises in daily life (19th Annotation) and want to learn more about the experience in advance, as well as for those who simply would like to know more about the basic elements of the Ignatian prayer. Foundations Programs, pilgrimage, and prayer at the Center for Ignatian Spirituality Retreats Learn More The Center offers various retreat opportunities throughout the year to support individuals and groups in their spiritual journeys. 19th Annotation Learn More The 19th Annotation of the Spiritual Exercises are a compilation of meditations, prayers, and contemplative practices developed by St. Ignatius Loyola to help people deepen their relationship with God. Prayers at the Center Learn More Following a long-time tradition, the Center for Ignatian Spirituality offers noontime prayer sessions during the liturgical seasons of Advent and Lent. Compañía Pilgrimage Learn More This pilgrimage seminar encourages faculty and administrators to explore their vocation as educators, and culminates in a trip to Spain and Rome to retrace some of the key steps of Ignatius Loyola's life journey. Alpha Sigma Nu Learn More Founded in 1915, Alpha Sigma Nu is the honor society of Jesuit institutions of higher education that recognizes those students who distinguish themselves in scholarship, loyalty, and service. Discernment in the Workplace Learn More This 6-week course helps members of the Boston College community understand the art and skills of discernment as an organic part of their work life. Events Learn More The Center for Ignatian Spirituality hosts a variety of talks and panel discussions each year focusing on faith, discernment, and Ignatian spirituality. Jesuit Fellow Learn More The Center for Ignatian Spirituality offers an in-residence “Jesuit Fellow” position for those interested in working with the Center and other pastoral ministries. CIS Talks Learn More The Center invites BC faculty members to the Boston College Club to deliver talks on the desires and passions that inspire and motivate them. Back To Top Back To Top Center for Ignatian Spirituality 84 College Rd Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 (617) 552-2951 About Prayer Workshops Programs Events Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College