Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards By Jennifer Altmann for the Office of Communications May 20, 2022, 6:09 a.m. The Princeton University chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will present its annual awards for excellence in undergraduate teaching to Alexander Davis, lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program, and Casey Lew-Williams, professor of psychology and director of graduate studies. Davis earned a Ph.D. from Princeton in 2016. The awards will be presented at a ceremony at 8:45 a.m. Monday, May 23. The students outline the criteria for excellence in teaching as skill in instruction, commitment to working with and building relationships with undergraduates, and the ability to spark students’ intellectual interests. Each winner is presented with a plaque. Alexander Davis Senior Owen Matthews, a concentrator in politics who is also pursuing a program certificate in East Asian studies, met Alexander Davis during her first year at Princeton, when Davis was her academic adviser and writing seminar instructor. Three and a half years later, as Matthews reflected on her college years, she said Davis was the faculty member who most prepared her for the world of research and writing. "Alex set me up for success here, both in terms of academics and personal happiness. I can say he truly changed the trajectory of my Princeton career,' Matthews said. Alexander Davis Photo courtesy of Alexander Davis For his seminars, Davis develops resources to teach students strategies for writing about quantitative evidence and made these available to other instructors. “The academic foundation Alex provided my fall semester of my first year has allowed me to gain more from every single one of my subsequent classes, and to feel prepared for conducting independent work in the politics department,” Matthews said. Davis stays connected to students during their first year and beyond, holding many events at which students can ask questions or reach out for more informal support. He has held pizza nights before a major assignment is due, so students can support each other. During “Forbes Fridays,” Davis is available throughout the morning in the Forbes dining hall, where conversations veer from assignments to career plans to life in general. “Especially as a first-year student, just knowing there is someone at the University who is rooting for you, and who you can turn to, is critical to feeling connected to and able to navigate the University as a whole,” Matthews said. Davis has a bachelor’s degree from James Madison University and a Ph.D. in sociology from Princeton. His scholarship examines gender, sexuality and social inequality through the lens of cultural and organizational sociology. He has been a lecturer in the Princeton Writing Program since 2016. Casey Lew-Williams When senior Richard Yang first arrived at Princeton, Yang asked juniors and senior which classes someone interested in psychology should take. The feedback was unanimous: “Developmental Psychology,” taught by Casey Lew-Williams. Casey Lew-Williams Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Lew-Williams’ mentorship had a profound effect on Yang’s Princeton experience. He “was an extremely kind professor and truly one-of-a-kind,” said Yang, who also took “Developmental Origins of Life Outcomes” with Lew-Williams, served for three years as his research assistant and completed a thesis with him. Whether it is in class or during his “coffee chats,” Lew-Williams offers students a warm smile and an eagerness to hear about their lives. He “always has his door open for advisees and students and actively takes a role in his students’ research processes,” Yang said. “He does not simply listen to students, but he follows up with questions, which shows how he really does care about his students’ well-being and future aspirations.” A professor at Princeton since 2014, Lew-Williams earned his undergraduate degree from the University of California-Berkeley, and his Ph.D. from Stanford University. His scholarship focuses on how the mechanisms of infant cognition and the details of environmental experience combine to shape early learning. Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice