Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Research Featured Research Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Featured Public Health Research Areas While Mailman School research touches every corner of public health, our efforts are aligned on these strategic initiatives that maximize the interest and knowledge of faculty who work collaboratively across departments, disciplines, and methodologies. Climate and Health One consequence of climate change that has obvious and lasting ramifications is the impact on human health. Food Systems and Public Health Food is at the center of many critical public health issues, from hunger to obesity, chronic disease to climate change. Global Health With research and public health projects on six continents around the globe, the Global Health Initiative seeks to effectively mobilize the capacities of Columbia Mailman and the wider Columbia University community. Our COVID-19 Work Since the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 was first identified in late 2019, Columbia Public Health has been working on multiple fronts to respond to the spread of the virus. Urban Health Our researchers partner with local and global stakeholders, working towards improving the health of millions of people living in cities. Data Science Our researchers are using advanced analytic techniques, and state-of-the-art high performance computing to detect the slightest changes in population-scale electronic health records. Aging With increased life expectancy come many challenges to ensure that people are living not only longer lives, but rich lives. Global Health Justice and Governance GHJG addresses complex public health challenges by advancing justice in the areas of gender, environment, and food. Close Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers