Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines Peer Advocate Application Peer Advocate Application October 26, 2021 To be considered as a Peer Advocate applicant, complete the below information (incomplete applications will not be considered.) Read about applying to be a Peer Educator. Applications Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Selected applicants will be interviewed. Successful applicants will be invited to participate in a 40 hour training program. Candidates must attend all training dates in order to be eligible to become a volunteer. Interviews will be held on a rolling basis. Applicants must be able to attend all training sessions. Upon successful completion of the training program and necessary certification, candidates will be invited to join the Peer Advocate program. In order to volunteer as a Peer Advocate, you must be a current student at a school affiliated with Columbia University. All volunteers must be in good disciplinary and academic standing with your school. A commitment for a minimum of two semesters (not necessarily consecutive) is expected of all volunteers. About the Training The training will: Address sexual and intimate partner violence, sexual and gender-based harassment, and stalking and the impact of these behaviors on survivors and their communities Introduce crisis intervention techniques and peer-advocacy skills Following participation in the training program, candidates must successfully go through a certification process. Upon successful completion of the training and certification, Peer Advocates will be prepared and expected to provide peer advocacy for the campus community, including Barnard, Columbia, Teachers College, Jewish Theological Seminary and Union Theological Seminary. Responsibilities Peer Advocates are responsible for: Covering one to two on-call shifts each month Attending scheduled, one-hour meetings with advisors every week Attending at least two continuing education training sessions every semester Attending required meetings as scheduled Providing support to students who wish to connect to a peer at one to two prevention programs each semester If you have any questions about the training process, please contact the Sexual Violence Response & Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center at (212) 854-3500 or Jose Carval. Eligibility To be eligible for participation in the training, you must: Be able to attend all training sessions Be comfortable with our Mission Statement Be in good disciplinary and academic standing with your school By submitting this application, you are providing permission for Sexual Violence Response staff to verify that you are in good disciplinary and academic standing with your school. Webform Applicant Information Name Email UNI Phone Number Local/Campus Address School Year Date of Birth Hours Available for Interview Campus Involvement Are you involved/affiliated with other student groups, organizations, or Columbia Athletics? Your affiliations have no bearing on the application process and are only collected for informational purposes only. Campus Involvement Fraternity/Sorority Athlete Student Organization Other None/Prefer not to list Which fraternity or sorority? Which sport(s)? Which student group/organization(s)? Other: please list Summer Housing If summer housing is needed, please complete the following section. ID# Accommodations Needed T-shirt size Diet Dietary Preference Vegetarian Kosher Food Allergy Other Restrictions If you selected restrictions or allergies, what type? Application Questionnaire Please answer each question in 100-200 words. Why are you interested in volunteering as a Peer Advocate? What skills and interests would you bring to this role? Describe any experience you have with peer education, peer advocacy, organizing or activism. How would you experiences in extracurricular activities help you as an SVR volunteer? Describe a situation in which you feel you helped or supported someone. What did you say or do and how did that person respond? Submit Document Categories Forms Document Topics Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close