Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Carroll School of Management Carroll School of Management Information For Centers Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Boston College Center for Work & Family Contact Back Back Close About Overview People History 2020-2021 Areas of Focus Contact Center Staff Privacy Statement Research Overview COVID-19 Resources/Updates Virtual Events Articles Tip Sheets Blogs What We're Reading The New Dad Research Series Work-Life & Flexibility Employee Mental Health & Well-Being Career Development & Talent Management Globally Inclusive Workplaces Women's Advancement Race in the Workplace Executive Briefings Kanter Award Tip Sheets Membership Overview Premier Core Roundtable Members Only Meetings Custom Benchmarking Summaries Custom Research Requests Webinars New Member Introductory Rate News & Events Overview Events Blogs Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Center for Work and Family Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Centers BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Upcoming Events Welcome The Boston College Center for Work & Family is the country's leading university-based center focused on helping employers enhance the employee experience, increase employee productivity, and improve the quality of employee lives. Learn more about the Center Join our Mailing List Research and Resources on Critical Topics Facing Organizations Today Brad Harrington, Executive Director of the Boston College Center for Work & Family, shares the priority areas of focus of the Center. Read more here. Video filmed and produced by Angelos Bougas. Featured Resources 2022 Trends As we enter 2022, we will continue to see a redefinition of how work gets done and a growing emphasis on delivering a superior employee experience. Our research team has taken the time to highlight some of the trends we see rising to the top in 2022 as we continue this time of transition. Tips for Managers: Making Hybrid Work Increasingly, employers are committing to long-term flexible and remote work policies by adopting a hybrid work model. As managers re-engage with their teams, they should pay attention to the four areas outlined in this tip sheet to ensure an engaged and productive workforce. Mental Health in the Post-Pandemic Workplace Stress and burnout are at all-time highs and employees are increasingly prioritizing their mental health. Our newest executive briefing shares the latest data and trends around mental health in the workplace and best practices from Roundtable members. Corporate Spotlight: HubSpot on Hybrid Work & Remote Inclusion We are excited to kick off our Spotlight Series, where we are profiling our members and other progressive organizations about how they are re-imagining the workplace. Check out our new company spotlight on HubSpot and their approach to hybrid work and remote inclusion. Addressing Race in the Workplace Check out our latest executive briefing focusing on the state of diversity in the workplace, the organizational impediments to implementing inclusive policies, and suggestions for building and maintaining diverse, inclusive, and equitable workplaces. For more resources on race in the workplace, click here. Upcoming Center Events Recent Center Events BC Roundtable Member Spotlight: Morgan Stanley's Global Return to Work Initiative (Members only) Building a Culture of Well-being in the Post-Pandemic Workplace BC Roundtable Diversity Executive Panel (Members only) Company Spotlight: HubSpot on Hybrid Work & Remote Inclusion (Members only) Women's Career Advancement: Strategies, Challenges, and Emerging Opportunities Membership The Boston College Workforce Roundtable is the premier learning and networking community for progressive employers who seek to provide a superior employee experience. Based in the Carroll School of Management at Boston College, the Roundtable combines the most valuable aspects of a professional community and the resources of a leading academic institution for members. From the Director “The Center's role has always been to bring together some of the world's leading academics with corporate practitioners to increase our understanding of how to improve the employee experience. We do this through our collaborative research, educational forums and Roundtable meetings. ” Brad Harrington, Executive Director Research a Work-Life and Flexibility Research exploring shifting gender roles and ways organizations can help employees manage professional and personal responsibilities. Employee Well-Being Publications focusing on creating workplace cultures that promote employee physical, emotional, social, and financial well-being. Talent Management Research focused on the ways organizations can attract, engage, and advance talent while helping employees actively manage their own careers. Globally Inclusive Workplaces Reports and briefings reviewing workplace strategies focused on diversity & inclusion as well as appreciated differences in gender, culture, socio-economic background, etc. IN THE NEWS Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Center for Work & Family 22 Stone Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-2844 cwf@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College