Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close For Current Graduate Students Home Graduate School For Current Graduate Students Welcome! As a graduate student at Boston College, you have already made an important decision regarding your professional development and have taken a major step in your career journey. Whether you are a master’s or doctoral student, you are developing and refining skills and gaining important experiences that will position you well to pursue opportunities in a wide range of industries. The Career Center is here to help you as you continue your journey. Career Center Resources For You As a graduate student you have access to a number of our offerings. We are eager to help you connect your graduate experience to career opportunities, and ultimately achieve your goals. To get started, we encourage you to leverage the resources below. Handshake For all graduate students with the exception of MBA and Law students Handshake is BC’s official career platform, where you can apply to jobs and internships, register for events, and schedule appointments with our career coaches. Eagle Exchange For all graduate students Eagle Exchange is an online platform that fosters connections between students and alumni (including graduate alumni). Use your account to grow your network. Career Development Plan For all graduate students The CDP is a type of individual development plan designed specifically for BC graduate students. In the link above, download a PDF of the CDP in the link above and use it to develop your skills, interests, and values and to achieve your career goals. Career Clusters For all graduate students with the exception of CGSOM and Law students The Career Center has seven career clusters to support the diverse interests of BC students. We invite you to explore the specialized resources within each cluster. Career Coaching For all graduate students with the exception of CGSOM and Law students Our team of career coaches is specialized and works with you based on your industries of interest. Make an appointment with one of our coaches to discuss your goals. Additional Resources Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Job Searching for International Students Law School Career Services CGSOM Career Services Social Work Career Services Office of Graduate Student Life Events Career Center What Are Your Career Goals? Each graduate student’s career needs are unique, and no matter what they are, we look forward to working with you to help you achieve your goals. Below are three of the most common paths that BC graduate students pursue. Each tab contains helpful resources to assist you as you think about your next steps. Further Graduate Study Academic Career Career Beyond Academia Graduate School If you are interested in pursuing further graduate study in the arts and sciences, our Graduate School page is a great place to get started. Here, you’ll find important information about admissions criteria, financial aid, standardized tests, and application materials like letters of recommendations, personal statements, and statements of purpose. Law School If you’ve determined that law school is your next step, visit our pre-law page for information about researching law schools, the law school application process, the LSAT, and more. Here you can also access the pre-law handbook and schedule an appointment with the pre-law advisor. Research Opportunities Whether you are interested in obtaining an advanced research degree in the arts and sciences or attending a professional school to study law, medicine, education, or business, it is important to research degree programs to find the best fit for your interests and goals. Consider the following: Work with faculty in your academic department to identify programs and faculty at other institutions whose research syncs with your interests. Consult professional associations to learn more about best practices, degree programs, and career outcomes for graduate students in your field of interest. Connect with graduate schools’ admissions offices to learn about student life, unique opportunities, financial aid, and more. Network with alumni who’ve pursued graduate degrees of interest to learn about their paths and experience. You can connect with alumni on Eagle Exchange. Meet with a career coach in your field of interest to chart your course and review your next steps. Identify and Prepare for Standardized Tests Most graduate programs require a standardized test as part of a completed application. While liberal arts and education graduate programs generally require the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and any corresponding GRE subject tests, professional degree programs in law, business, and medicine require specialized tests. Click the links below to learn more. GRE LSAT GMAT MCAT Note: If you have already taken the GRE, you may be able to use this score for subsequent graduate school applications: GRE scores are valid for five years after your test date. Prepare Application Materials The scope and tenor of required application materials will vary depending on the type of graduate program. But, all graduate programs will require some form of admissions essay (like a personal statement or statement of purpose); an updated resume or CV; letters of recommendation; and transcripts. Follow the links below to learn more about these materials: Admissions Essays Resume / Curriculum Vitae Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Meet with a Career Coach Our career coaches are eager to discuss your plans for further graduate study. Make an Appointment Hiring for academic positions—tenure-track or full-time faculty; lectureships; postdocs—typically begins in the late summer and runs through the following spring. When compared to other industries, the academic hiring process generally requires a greater number of application materials and lasts longer. But, like any hiring process, there are a number of ways to prepare so that you are ready when the time comes to enter the job market: Consult professional resources, like The Professor is In, to learn about best practices for approaching the job market, and Tomorrow’s Professor, to stay on top of key trends in faculty development. Engage with your faculty mentors to learn more about discipline-specific career information. Seek out opportunities to participate in your department’s hiring process, including interviewing candidates, sitting in on committee meetings, and attending job talks. Join your discipline’s professional association to access field-specific information, including hiring trends, salary information, and more. Network—attend conferences; organize conference panels and invite panelists from other universities; connect with leading faculty in your field; reach out to graduate alumni on Eagle Exchange. Pursue opportunities to diversify your graduate experience beyond research, writing and teaching: participate in service projects; serve on committees; get involved in BC’s broader campus life. Prepare your Application Materials The nature of each academic job application will vary depending on your field, but typically, applications will consist of the following: an updated CV; a cover letter; supplemental statements; a writing sample; and letters of recommendation. Many universities host their applications on dossier services like Interfolio, and it may be useful to register on the platform to organize your application materials. The initial application phase is then typically followed by several rounds of interviews, including phone screens, video interviews, and on-campus job talks, which can be multiple days. Follow the links below from various resources to learn more about these materials: CV Cover Letter Diversity Statement Teaching Statement Research Statement Writing Samples Letters of Recommendation Interviewing The Job Talk Job Boards In addition to discipline-specific job boards that are often housed on professional association websites, there are a number more general academic job boards to seek out tenure-track, full-time, postdoctoral, and other academic positions across disciplines. Key resources include the following: Academic Jobs Wiki An aggregator of academic job postings by application year, and includes links and resources for preparing for the job market and accessing international postings. HigherEdJobs.com A comprehensive job board for careers in higher education, including academia. Tip: create alerts to receive daily emails of new postings in your areas of interest. Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC) HERC is another job board for careers in academia and higher education. HERC also offers webinars on the job market and allows applicants to upload materials for recruiting purposes. Chronicle of Higher Education Jobs In addition to a comprehensive job board, Chronicle’s job board includes webinars, career news and advice, and updated salary information. H-Net Job Guide A regularly updated job board specifically for tenure-track, full-time, part-time, and postdoctoral positions in the humanities. ImaginePhD ImaginePhD is a career exploration and planning tool for graduate students in the humanities and social sciences. Here, you’ll find intel on a wide range of careers--both academic and outside the academy--and information about how to develop and advance your skills for a number of industries. Beyond the Professoriate Beyond the Professoriate helps graduate students leverage their education into meaningful careers. The platform has resources to support graduate students and partners with institutions to help you land jobs in industry, nonprofits, higher education, the private sector, and more. Explore Various Career Paths Whether you have a specific industry in mind or are completely unsure about what to do, the Career Center has a number of resources to help you forge your career path. We highly recommend that you schedule an appointment with a career coach to assist you in the exploration process. Be Career Ready As a graduate student, you are gaining highly desirable skills that are preparing you to embark on careers in a range of industries. Here, learn about the eight skills areas that employers in all industries will be seeking in the hiring process. Career Explorer A resource to help you discover how your interests, skills, personality and goals intersect. Get real-time recommendations on careers and industries to consider. Be sure to meet with a career coach to review your results and to determine next steps. Vault Find out what it is like to work within an industry, a company, or a profession. View the Career Guides for up to date information on a variety of careers as well as interviewing strategies and job search tips. Eagle Exchange An online platform that fosters connections between BC students and alumni around the world. The platform provides graduate students with the opportunity to seek knowledge and advice, explore industries of interest, and grow your professional network. Career Clusters Visit individual cluster pages for industry-specific job and internship resources, including job boards. Join one or multiple career clusters to receive email updates with information and resources related to career fields of interest. Prepare your Application Materials As a graduate student, you bring unique skills and experiences to a range of careers. It’s vital that you communicate these strengths efficiently and effectively when you network with alumni and professionals and prepare your application materials. Follow the links below to learn more about how to optimize these materials. Networking Online Presence/LinkedIn Resumes Cover Letters Interviewing Meet with a Career Coach Our career coaches are eager to discuss your interests, experiences, and career goals. Make an Appointment Quick Links Handshake Career Clusters Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources From the Career Center Blog Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam The Career Fair is over. Now What? Congratulations, you took a positive step forward in your career journey by attending a Career Fair! Now what? What you do February 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Career Myths, Debunked A myth is a widely held, but false belief or idea. Do they exist on campus? Of course. Did you September 03, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Eight Ways to Kick Off Your Fall Semester It’s back to school season! There’s nothing like the excitement of returning to campus, reconnecting with friends, decorating your new August 27, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Managing Family Career Expectations Read this if…. Your family expects you to have a high-earning or high-profile career. You feel pressured to be successful April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam The Career Fair is over. Now What? Congratulations, you took a positive step forward in your career journey by attending a Career Fair! Now what? What you do February 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College