Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Prepharmacy (Non-Degree Program) LEARN MORE ABOUT The prepharmacy program at Clemson is a two-year or three-year program that prepares students to meet the requirements for admission into a pharmacy school. Students who complete the three-year curriculum are eligible to apply for the Clemson University Bachelor of Science degree in preprofessional studies after successful completion of one year at the pharmacy school. The degree in pharmacy (PharmD) is awarded by the pharmacy school. For students who wish to receive a bachelor’s degree before applying to a college of pharmacy, Clemson offers many great options that will prepare you for your future career. Professional schools have no preferences or prejudices relating to major and are more interested in overall academic performance. This is evident in the fact that their entering students represent a broad spectrum of curricula from biological sciences to economics. FAST FACTS Pharmacists must graduate from an accredited college of pharmacy and pass a series of examinations to become licensed. Admission to pharmacy programs is heavily weighted toward criteria such as academic record, work experience, extracurricular activities, PCAT scores, honors/awards, letters of recommendation and interviews. Undergraduate requirements for entry into PharmD programs can be met within two academic years. Clemson provides strategic advising and counseling to aid students in preparing for admission into pharmacy school. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY It is essential that our students work closely with an adviser when selecting course work, as there are variations in courses required by pharmacy schools. Clemson has a prepharmacy adviser who is available to help you navigate through the process of selecting course work and preparing for the next step. Requirements typically include biology, chemistry, physics and mathematics as well as general education classes. If you choose to graduate with a Clemson undergraduate degree before applying to pharmacy school, your course requirements will depend on the major you choose. While there are many majors that meet the requirements with ease, others may require additional course work. You’ll need to communicate with your major adviser as well as our prepharmacy adviser to ensure all requirements are obtained. While at Clemson, you can build a résumé full of diverse experiences based on your personal interests and career goals. We offer vast opportunities to become immersed in scientific research and encourage our students to gain work experience or even travel abroad while on campus. Our undergraduate research program — called Creative Inquiry — allows you to conduct research with a team of fellow undergraduate students and a faculty mentor. Plus, our faculty are great about opening up their laboratories to welcome volunteers, student workers or independent projects. Similar Majors Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Prepharmacy (Non-Degree Program) Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Chemistry (B.S./B.A.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.)