Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Explosions Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Security Alerts Staying Safe Crime Prevention Vehicle Accidents Sensitive Crimes Active Shooter Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter in Place Office Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Explosions Explosions can be the result of an accident, or the intentional actions of an individual or group of individuals designed to cause damage to buildings/property and injury or death to individuals. All explosions which happen on campus should be immediately reported to the University of Houston Police Department by dialing extension 3-3333, and then to the Houston Fire Department by calling 911. Initial UHPD Response The responding UHPD Officers will be concerned with setting up a perimeter around the blast site to keep non-essential medical and rescue personnel away from the area. UHPD will also provide traffic control for responding medical / rescue personnel as staffing allows. UHPD Officers are not trained to evacuate individuals who are injured by the explosion. Notifications UHPD will assume responsibility for making all on-campus notifications. Notification of the family of injured individuals will be handled as follows: Faculty and Staff – Human Resources Students – Office of the Dean of Students Investigation The investigation of all explosions which happen on campus, either accidental or intentional, will not start until after the injured have been removed and treated, and the blast site deemed safe for public safety personnel to enter. The investigation will be coordinated by UHPD with the assistance of local (HFD Arson) and Federal (ATF) assistance as needed or requested. Publicity The University’s response to all press inquiries regarding explosions shall be coordinated through University Media Relations. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies