Directory Maps Contact Us AccessUH UH Home Home About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Programs MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance (STEM) MS Global Energy Leadership MS MIS (STEM) MS Marketing Online MS Management & Leadership MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management (STEM) Online Doctoral Office of Executive Development The Bauer Mini-MBA Earn a Certificate Custom Programs Centers Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship (WCE) Real Estate Program Stephen Stagner Sales Excellence Institute (SEI) Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) AIM Center for Investment Management (ACIM) Decision Sciences Institute Center for Economic Inclusion Institute for Health Care Marketing (IHCM) Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) UH Small Business Development Center Student Success Advising Emerging Leaders Academic Success Program Leadership & Engagement Bauer Honors RED Labs Learning Abroad Departments Accountancy & Taxation Decision & Information Sciences Finance Management & Leadership Marketing & Entrepreneurship Offices Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board Strategic Initiatives 2020-2025 Strategic Plan AI & Digital Society Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative BauerMerch.com Contact Us Invest Now Home Menu Latest News Tracking Disruptions Bauer Researcher Uses Big Data to Track Oil Refinery Disruptions By Julie Bonnin Published on March 14, 2022 New research from the C. T. Bauer College of Business uses big data to track operational disruptions at U.S. oil refineries that cause significant reductions in production capacity. The research offers important evidence that is likely to be of interest to regulatory agencies, investors, and consumers, because the disruptions impact petroleum product prices and stock prices but largely go unreported. “If all the refineries near a particular city experience an outage, local gas prices will increase by 8.7 cents per gallon the day after the production outage,” the researchers write. Overall, this price effect can be translated to a $26 increase in the quarterly cost of gas per household. Given the significant price impact of refinery outages, this evidence should be of interest to U.S. regulatory agencies, which have discussed mandating firm disclosures of refinery outages for more than a decade. Assistant Professor Bin Li of the Department of Accountancy & Taxation co-authored the study, which is forthcoming at Journal of Accounting Research, a top Accounting journal. The research, “Leveraging Big Data to Study Information Dissemination of Material Firm Events,” expands what is known about the frequency and scale of refinery outages by utilizing the power of high-frequency cell phone “pings” (i.e., geolocation signals from mobile devices) to track unusually high foot traffic that occurs as plants bring in support crews to get refineries back in operation. The study takes into account cell phone signals that appeared at almost all (more than 85 percent) major U.S. oil refineries. “Our analysis shows that refining firms do not voluntarily disclose outages, and that traditional media cover only about one-third of outages,” Li said. According to Li’s research, traditional media report just 27% of the monthly offline events at refineries, on average. Furthermore, firms do not report such outages in Form 8-K SEC filing either. “The lack of firm disclosures about outages should be helpful to the Securities Exchange Commission in evaluating firms’ compliance with 8-K filing requirements,” the researchers write. How then will investors get this information? “Investors appear to learn the financial impact of such outages through subsequent earnings announcements,” the paper states. According to the findings, traditional media appear to capture more news about planned than unplanned outages, report relatively more refinery outages in big cities, cover refinery outages of publicly traded companies, and report outages in refineries with higher levels of production capacity. Stock returns do not reflect the implications of refinery outages until about three to four months after the outage. So, there is room for investors to profit from this delayed stock market response by using big data. About Professor Li: Li’s research concerns whether and why accounting disclosures, both mandatory and voluntary, affect investor decisions and firm value. He is also interested in research topics related to corporate finance, regulatory enforcement and standard setting. His research has been published in top accounting and finance journals and has received multiple awards, such as the Notable Contributions to Accounting Literature Award and the FARS Best Paper Award. Prior to joining the Bauer College, Li was an Assistant Professor of Accounting at University of Texas at Dallas and University of Oklahoma. He received his Ph.D. in Accounting from Duke University in 2012. Main Navigation Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now × Undergraduate Prospective Students Bachelor of Business Administration Academic Advising Graduate & Doctoral Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance MS Global Energy Leadership MS Management Information Systems Online MS Management & Leadership MS Marketing MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management Doctoral Executive Comprehensive Leadership Programs Open Enrollment Programs Custom Programs Student Success Scholarships Leadership Initiatives Bauer Honors Learning Abroad Success Stories Career Services Rockwell Career Center Career Gateway Our Campus UH System Emergency Information Privacy and Policies Jobs at UH About Bauer Our Message Our Name Our Story Our Faculty Our Students Our Learning Goals Our Rankings Our Mission Bauer College Board Faculty & Staff Directory BauerConnect (SharePoint Intranet) Staff Resources Room Reservations Social Media Contact Us suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Contact Us Directions & Parking C. T. Bauer College of Business 4250 Martin Luther King Boulevard, Room 334, Houston, Texas 77204-6021. (713) 743-2255 suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Last modified on 15 March 2022 at 11:53am ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies