Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Undergraduate Concentration in Public Health Home About The Curriculum Declaring & Advising Site Navigation Home About People Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Outcomes The Curriculum Declaring & Advising Public Health Research Day 2022 Over 70 student posters were presented and discussed at the School's annual research showcase. Highlights and poster winners Undergraduate Journal of Public Health The inaugural issue of the student-run BUJPH features 11 peer-reviewed articles that bring an equity focus to a broad range of public health topics. Learn more Public Health Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) The DUG provides opportunities for public health undergraduate concentrators to become involved in the School of Public Health community. Learn More Career Support Prepare for your next step with public health-focused career tools and resources. Learn More Wellness Physical, mental and emotional health and well-being are essential to the ability of every student. Visit our Community Support and Wellness page The Concentration in Public Health examines patterns of—and explanations for—population health and disease, health policy, cross-cultural and international aspects of health, the organizational and social structures through which health services are delivered and received, and the public health system. Why Public Health? Public Health Events Jun 1 9:00am - 9:30am Common Grounds Jun 1 11:00am - 12:30pm DPHB Academic Grand Rounds: Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Jun 1 2:00pm Andrew Zullo, PharmD, PhD - Special Seminar -“Two Applications of Modern Causal Inference Methods to Advance Older Adult Health: Vaccine Equity and Drug-Impaired Driving” Jun 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm SPH Teaching Brown Bag Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks View full calendar > About Learn about the program, connect with students & faculty, and explore student outcomes. About The Curriculum Undergraduate concentrators take 12 courses plus the option to pursue Honors. The Curriculum Declaring & Advising Learn how to declare, read advising FAQ, and find out about funding opportunities. The Process Five-year UG/MPH The 5-year integrated Undergraduate/MPH (UG/MPH) Degree is a rigorous program in professional public health education open to Brown undergraduates of any concentration. UG/MPH Degree Undergraduate Concentration in Public Health Undergraduate Concentration in Public Health Brown University 121 South Main St Providence, RI 02912 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top