Home COVID-19 Symposia Series COVID-19 UPDATE Events and Seminars Graduate Program Faculty Resources Sexual Respect Mission Statement Contact Us Location of modulatory beta subunits in BK potassium channels.... Ryanodine receptors channels are required for the release of calcium (Ca2+) from intracellular stores... Dissection of a cortical circuit in a genetic mouse model of schizophrenia Green... A branching mechanosensory neuron (red) that innervate skin cells (blue) integrates tactile information... >>More Information RECENT NEWS FROM OUR DEPARTMENT VP&S Receives New NIH Grant to Expand Training for Underrepresented Students "CV Development Recruitment Day June 10, 2021" We are delighted to announce that Dr. Henry M. Colecraft from Columbia University will receive the 2022 Kenneth S. Cole Award from the Channels, Receptors and Transporters Subgroup of the Biophysical Society. South Korea took rapid, intrusive measures against Covid-19 – and they worked... see link Electron Microscopy Reveals How Vitamin A Enters the Cell...Mancia lab COVID-19 How the Coronavirus is Changing Everything - Andrew R. Marks The Physiology and Cellular Biophysics Departmental Retreat was held on September 27, 2019. We were delighted to have guest speakers Ann Temkin and Aris N. Economides as a our keynote speakers held at The New York Academy of Medicine. See photos from the event. Profile: Stavroula Kousteni explains MC4R-dependent suppression of appetite by bone-derived lipocalin 2... University Policy | Sexual Respect About Columbia’s Policy. Columbia University is committed to fostering an environment that is free from gender-based discrimination and harassment, including sexual assault and all other forms of gender-based misconduct. Congratulations to Jeanine D'Armiento, selected for the Columbia Provost's Faculty Service Award Congratulations to our colleague and collaborator, Joachim Frank, on winning the 2017 Nobel Prize in Chemistry Cellular Defect Linked to Diabetes Editorial: Desperately seeking diversity Revolution in Imaging Tech Brings Heart Failure Molecule Into View Summer Research Program for Science Teachers forthcoming publication in the printed version of the P&S magazine. Belly Fat Promotes Diabetes Under Orders from Liver In obese mice, a liver enzyme inflames fat, increasing insulin resistance Change in Mitochondria is Critical for Clearing Dead Cells. Consuming 1 million dead cells every second Physiology Graduate student Hunter Giese collaborates with Anicka Yi on Guggenheim exhibition: CUMC Press Release and Video or Guggenheim Press Release How a nuclear attack on North Korea would add to global cancer epidemic News Archive