Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Mathematics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Mathematics Major Attain lucrative algebraic, analytic and numerical skills with the Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics or Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Graduates of this degree program can serve in a number of professional roles, including actuary, business analyst, database administrator, researcher and statistician. In fact, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projected a significant rise in the job market and median salary for mathematicians. Students can also continue their academic careers through various STEM-related graduate programs. Over the course of four years, you’ll study mathematical applications, computations and theory. In this 123-credit-hour program, you’ll not only learn how to recognize, isolate and solve mathematical problems, but also how to communicate your findings through electronic media, speaking and writing. In this program, you’ll learn how to communicate ideas, translate real-life and theoretical data into mathematics, and understand abstract algebra and real and complex analysis. Choosing between the BA and BS in Mathematics Depending on your level of commitment to mathematics, you can either take the 54- to 55-credit-hour program for the BA degree or the 65-credit-hour program for the BS degree. The BS in Mathematics requires more advanced mathematics courses, which might be a better fit for you if you plan on pursuing a graduate degree in Mathematics. Conversely, you can broaden your educational experience and opt for the BA in Mathematics, which allows for more flexibility in coursework. Classes & Curriculum All students must take the program’s introductory courses. Beyond that, your curriculum will be decided by whether you choose to pursue the BA or the BS. Learn more about required Mathematics courses. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS* Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Scientific Writing *Fox School of Business +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Mathematics Major / Master of Education You can also earn a Mathematics Major from the College of Science and Technology and a Master of Education from the College of Education and Human Development. Qualified students can earn a master’s degree in five years, instead of taking the usual six. Learn more about pursuing this accelerated degree. 3+3 Accelerated Program Qualified students can earn the Mathematics Major and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the College of Public Health over a five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology's 3+3 Accelerated Degree Program. 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the Mathematics Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Dual Bachelor-Master Program for International Students International students have the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from their home institution and a graduate degree from Temple over five years. This multidisciplinary program includes undergraduate- and graduate-level coursework at Temple. Students are prepared for professional careers in today’s global economy and job market. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Dual Bachelor-Master Program for international students. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Mathematics Major. Boris Datskovsky is the director of advising and professor in the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7847 Email: mathadvising@temple.edu Maria E. Lorenz is the director of undergraduate studies and professor in the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7852 Email: mathadvising@temple.edu Irina Mitrea is a professor and department chair of the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7841 Email: imitrea@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 pre-health clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a Mathematics Major degree may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Women in Mathematics - Temple University Chapter promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Math Club is a community of students and College of Science and Technology faculty that promotes mathematics through social activities and discussions. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics is a professional society for students interested in applied, computational or industrial mathematics. Members attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MATH-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info