More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Penn Guardian Penn Guardian is a free smartphone application that is available to anyone with a Penn email address. Download on your smartphone, then register using your Penn email address: App Store for iOS devices Google Play for Android devices How Penn Guardian Works Penn Guardian is a service that allows you to rapidly provide information about yourself to the Division of Public Safety during an emergency. By building a personal profile, information about you can be immediately accessed by PennComm dispatchers should you call Public Safety from a registered cellphone. Penn Guardian can also provide police with GPS coordinates from your phone, which can decrease response time and allow first responders to locate you should you not be able to give them your location. Email us with any questions or concerns: pennguardian(at)publicsafety.upenn.edu Features & Support Registering for Penn Guardian Registering for the Penn Guardian System is quick and easy! It is a free app for on your smartphone. Simply visit: App Store for iOS devices Google Play for Android devices and sign up with your Penn email address. Update your profile by adding information such as your physical description, a photo, your address, known allergies or other optional medical information. The App was developed by the University’s safety partner Rave Guardian, a service utilized on college campuses across the country. You can visit the Rave Guardian website to learn more: http://www.raveguardian.com Personal Profile With Penn Guardian you can build a unique personal profile that instantaneously provides DPS dispatchers with critical information should you call them from your registered phone number. All information provided by you is 100% optional and is only seen when you call 215-573-3333 for assistance. GPS Tracking Penn Guardian allows for GPS tracking to be activated on your phone. If you need immediate assistance, but are unable to give your location, Penn Guardian helps Police and emergency responders locate you. This information will only be available to Penn Police when you call the Penn Emergency Communications Center (PennComm) directly, either through the app or at 215-573-3333. Submit a Tip The app provides a confidential way to submit a tip to Penn Police—with a photo, if necessary—through a text message. Protecting Your Privacy We want you to feel confident that any information you provide for the Penn Guardian system is kept completely confidential. DPS never sees your information or tracks your location unless you contact us for assistance. DPS also has worked with the Office of Audit, Compliance & Privacy to ensure our Vendor follows the University of Pennsylvania’s standards for data protection. Frequently Asked Questions Have questions? View our frequently asked questions section to learn more about Penn Guardian. You may also contact the Division of Public Safety at pennguardian(at)publicsafety.upenn.edu and we will be happy to answer any questions you may have. Registering for Penn Guardian Personal Profile GPS Tracking Protecting Your Privacy Frequently Asked Questions Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset