Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC researcher receives prestigious award to further cancer... December 7, 2021 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Vladimir Bogdanov has been awarded a Catalyst Research Award to further investigate if a drug he and his team developed is effective in treating pancreatic cancer. UC research shows effectiveness of ointment that kills... December 1, 2021 Research from the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine shows that use of a topical drug, called AB569, a combination of acidified nitrite and EDTA (or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) promotes killing of antibiotic-resistant bacteria while enhancing the healing of wounds in a variety of burn injuries. The study was published in the journal Infection and Immunity. WJAR: Does your body clock cause binge eating? December 7, 2021 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Francisco Romo-Nava details his research looking into how the body's circadian rhythms affect binge eating. Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Earth Day is every day for UC sustainability stewards April 21, 2022 With national Earth Day celebrated on April 22, events across all four campuses are bringing the awareness of UC's green energy initiatives and the improved built environment to light. While Earth Day was created in 1970, today a growing group of sustainability stewards all across UC continue to carry out the original Earth Day mission: from awareness to action. Confronting crisis: Leaders discuss lessons learned April 1, 2022 Preparation, access to data and expertise and an approach that focuses on individuals has helped three leaders in Ohio who have confronted crises including the COVID-19 pandemic, opioid epidemic and unemployment among a vulnerable population. Cryptocurrency helps nonprofits connect to new donors February 22, 2022 Cryptocurrency is a fast-growing source of donations and helps nonprofits connect with a new demographic of donors, experts said Feb. 17 during a panel discussion hosted by the University of Cincinnati, called Digital Futures Flashpoint Series. Is cryptocurrency the future of philanthropy? February 11, 2022 Event: February 17, 2022 1:00 PM As cryptocurrencies gain prominence in the financial sector, the philanthropic world is seeking ways it can utilize this new technology to advance the work of nonprofits. UC partners with U.S. Cyber Command February 1, 2022 U.S. Cyber Command, one of the 11 unified combatant commands of the U.S. Department of Defense, selected the University of Cincinnati as one of its newest Academic Engagement Network college and university partners. President Pinto: Looking ahead to 2022 January 13, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto thanks the UC community for its continued resilience, while also looking ahead to an encouraging 2022. President Pinto's 2021 year-in-review message December 17, 2021 University of Cincinnati President Neville G. Pinto looks back on a historic year that brought students, faculty, staff and the community back together like never before. UC Space Research Institute awards fellowships November 12, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration has announced its first five research fellows for fall 2021, including graduate and undergraduate students from aerospace engineering, mechanical engineering and political science. Ohio River faces growing threats November 2, 2021 More research is needed to maximize the Ohio River's potential for industry, agriculture, energy, recreation and drinking water, experts said Oct. 28 during the Digital Futures Flashpoint Series “State of the Ohio River” panel discussion, hosted by the University of Cincinnati. Flashpoint Series to open with ‘State of the Ohio River’ October 21, 2021 The Digital Futures Flashpoint Series, a series of conversations of consequence, will kick-off Oct. 28 with a discussion about the “State of the Ohio River.” Calling all UC artists, authors, editors & composers to submit... September 14, 2021 The annual Life of the Mind, interdisciplinary conversations with University of Cincinnati faculty, is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022. Once again, the event will celebrate the published or performed creative and scholarly works of UC’s artists, authors, editors & composers with an exhibit and bibliography. Classes begin for increasingly diverse student body at UC August 23, 2021 The first day of classes for the fall semester at the University of Cincinnati starts Monday, Aug. 23, and more than 46,700 students are expected to begin instruction with a more traditional fall term, focusing on in-person instruction and activities. New facial covering requirement and vaccine incentives for UC... August 3, 2021 UC President Neville G. Pinto announced that facial covering requirements will begin at UC Aug. 5, and vaccine incentives will begin for faculty, staff and students later this month. UC closed Friday in honor of Juneteenth June 17, 2021 The University of Cincinnati will be closed on Friday, June 18 in honor of federal government's decision to mark Juneteenth as a public holiday. UC staff have elected their 2021-23 Staff Senators June 8, 2021 Join us in congratulating the 2021-23 new Staff Senate members! Elections were held in early May, and new senators will begin their two-year term in July 2021. All UC staff are encouraged to be part of the enthusiasm and excitement for our new senators by attending the Staff Senate online meeting via WebEx, June 30, 9-11 a.m. Updates to Research Return Guidance June 7, 2021 Message The making of a successful Faculty & Staff Campaign May 25, 2021 More than one-third of UC’s nearly 7,000 faculty and staff have already contributed to the 2020-21 Faculty & Staff Campaign, putting the goal of 45% within reach. UC to help NASA prepare for flying cars May 17, 2021 The University of Cincinnati is working with NASA to help Ohio prepare for the advent of cargo-carrying drones and passenger-carrying air taxis. UC professor takes on new role in equity and inclusion May 7, 2021 Professor and Program Coordinator Tai Collins is named 2021 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion fellow by UC's Office of Research. UC celebrates topping-out of Digital Futures Building April 13, 2021 The University of Cincinnati on Tuesday hosted a topping-out ceremony for its Digital Futures Complex in the new Cincinnati Innovation District®. UC students recognized for achievement in undergraduate research April 12, 2021 Undergraduate student researchers in sciences and humanities recognized in 2021 UC awards early career research support March 10, 2021 The University of Cincinnati has announced the inaugural class of University Research Council (URC) Faculty Scholars Research Awards to early career support of faculty researchers studying areas ranging from engineering to German studies. UC launches Space Research Institute March 5, 2021 The University of Cincinnati has launched the interdisciplinary Space Research Institute for Discovery and Exploration as part of Research2030, UC’s 10-year strategic plan for research. Cincinnati Edition: A new way to treat depression February 17, 2021 A researcher at the University of Cincinnati is studying whether electrical stimulation of the spinal cord can be helpful in treating certain psychiatric conditions, like depression. UC professor invents lab-on-a-chip device for early cancer... February 1, 2021 Leyla Esfandiari, University of Cincinnati assistant professor of electrical engineering and biomedical engineering, has created a lab-on-a-chip device for noninvasive, point-of-care cancer screening and early diagnosis using a small amount of a patient’s body fluid, such as saliva or blood. UC professor develops dry disinfection for COVID-19 January 25, 2021 Donglu Shi, University of Cincinnati materials engineering professor, is developing a dry disinfection process for COVID-19 using cold plasma, which could offer a safer and simpler method of sanitizing. Studying a new way to treat depression January 20, 2021 A University of Cincinnati researcher has received a United States patent to continue a study looking at a method for using electrical stimulation of the spinal cord to treat certain psychiatric conditions, like depression. Digital Fabrication Lab aids pandemic response January 11, 2021 The University of Cincinnati's Digital Fabrication Lab fired up its 35 3D printers to help create products to help early in the pandemic. The projects were just a few of the 60,000 printed parts produced by the lab for UC engineering and medical students and faculty researchers and for external sources like the Cincinnati Museum Center. National political experts headline democracy panel at the... January 8, 2021 Event: January 15, 2021 1:00 PM The University of Cincinnati’s Office of Research will host a web-based panel discussion Jan. 20 featuring a Facebook policy expert and veteran Politico journalist. UC professor joins Ohio environmental advisory council December 16, 2020 Lilit Yeghiazarian, associate professor of environmental engineering at the University of Cincinnati, was invited to join Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost’s scientific advisory council. The 13-member council includes leading researchers representing nine Ohio universities who will advise the attorney general and his team on current environmental issues and pinpoint areas of potential future impact in Ohio. Digital Futures panel discussion to tackle technology's role in... December 14, 2020 Event: December 17, 2020 11:00 AM Presented by the University of Cincinnati Office of Research and Digital Futures, 'Connecting Technology and Place in Cities of the Future' will explore the Cincinnati community, placemaking, and the intersection of technology and community for the betterment of society. UC researchers build data network to minimize flooding impact December 2, 2020 A team of University of Cincinnati researchers is working to predict how flooding will impact cities and how to mitigate the resulting economic and human suffering. With the backing of a $5 million grant from the National Science Foundation, UC associate professor of environmental engineering Lilit Yeghiazarian is leading phase two of the research project with a multidisciplinary team to create the Urban Flooding Open Knowledge Network. The network merges data that can provide reliable flood-related information to anyone who needs it. UC Answers: How are researchers responding to COVID? November 6, 2020 Melanie Cushion, PhD, senior associate dean for research at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine., discussed how laboratories and scientific discovery continued despite restrictions put in place to keep everyone safe in the midst of COVID-19. UC professor works to create a smartphone COVID-19 test October 30, 2020 Aashish Priye, a University of Cincinnati assistant professor of chemical engineering, and the UC students in his lab are exploring a smartphone-based DNA analyzer that could allow a user to test themselves at home for COVID-19.. Added resources support UC researchers September 24, 2020 University of Cincinnati has expanded services to support researchers across the university through enhanced equipment capabilities at the Advanced Research Computing Center and the Makerspace Service Center at the 1819 Innovation Center. UC Answers: How is UC using design to address COVID-19? September 1, 2020 Claudia Rebola is an assistant professor and the associate dean for research at the University of Cincinnati’s College of Design, Architecture, Arts, and Planning. She is part of a UC team using innovation and design expertise to respond to COVID-19. Conquering COVID-19 August 27, 2020 UC and UC Health researchers are conducting research around the clock to fight COVID-19 and find out more about the virus. UC’s Advanced Research Computing Center gets $857K boost August 20, 2020 The University of Cincinnati has received National Science Foundation funding to greatly expand the computational research capabilities across the university with the Advanced Research Computing Center. Championed by Prashant Khare, an aerospace engineering assistant professor, the funding will also help the center to better train students for high-tech careers. UC Digital Futures webcast to take on virtual learning, literacy August 14, 2020 Event: August 20, 2020 11:00 AM UC Office of Research and UC Digital Futures to present “Emerging Technologies in Literacy: How EdTech is Helping our Children Learn to Read.” Eight UC faculty recognized for excellence in mentoring... August 6, 2020 University of Cincinnati faculty mentor undergraduate students in research. See the eight faculty who are being recognized this year and why they stand out. Biosensor detects toxins in water sources August 5, 2020 University of Cincinnati environmental engineers and chemists developed a biosensor to detect toxins in surface water such as streams, rivers and lakes. Funded through National Science Foundation (NSF) grants, the research was recently featured in an NSF video. The research is led by Dionysios Dionysiou, professor of environmental engineering, and addresses the importance of detecting toxic products of cyanobacteria algal blooms, which are formed mainly by agricultural runoff. Arte Al Día: Cincinnati’s Contemporary Arts Center presents... July 22, 2020 The University of Cincinnati played a pivotal role in the latest exhibit in Cincinnati's Contemporary Arts Center. UC shares plan for start of fall semester June 11, 2020 UC will follow enhanced health and safety measures as it begins with blend of in-person and virtual offerings for fall semester 2020. Stopping the spread: Researchers target COVID-19 April 23, 2020 UC COVID-19 studies awarded $425K April 15, 2020 Understanding that time was of the essence in combating this highly infectious disease, UC and its College of Medicine’s Office of Research conducted a rapid review and distribution of $425,000 in novel pilot grants to researchers, focusing on eradicating the disease. Lindner associate dean named fellow in international... April 8, 2020 Innovation Quest Elevator Pitch Competition goes digital March 9, 2020 The application for the 2020 Innovation Quest Elevator Pitch (IQ E-Pitch) competition is open until Friday, March 13, with a new, digital format. UC’s innovation efforts help attract up to $100 million from Ohio March 6, 2020 Gov. Mike DeWine, Lt. Gov. Jon Husted, and JobsOhio joined local leaders at the University of Cincinnati's 1819 Innovation Hub to unveil a new $100 million initiative to accelerate research output, increase UC STEM grads, and establish the Cincinnati Innovation District. UC Community Experience Survey launches Feb 24 February 20, 2020 WCPO: UC's Digital Futures Building bringing promise of... January 10, 2020 The Uptown Innovation Corridor is starting to take shape, thanks to the progress on the construction of the University of Cincinnati's 180,000-square-foot Urban Futures Building. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top