Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Life at Nebraska Living On Campus Living On Campus Nebraska Life at Nebraska Living on Campus Living on Campus As a University of Nebraska–Lincoln student, you'll have the opportunity to live and thrive in one of our on-campus residence halls. Residence halls allow students to form tight-knit communities with their peers. Since you'll be living right in the heart of campus, there will always be an opportunity for entertainment, university engagement, scholarship and recreation. Plus, walking just five minutes to class, multiple dining halls, the library and recreation center is pretty hard to beat. Your Husker Home Students can choose between living in a traditional two-person room, a four-person suite or apartment-style housing on City or East Campus. Your hall will come with laundry facilities, study rooms, lounge areas, WiFi and more; each room comes furnished with a refrigerator, desk, chair, bed, mirror, closet and storage space. Students may also choose to live in a Learning Community, where you can live and learn alongside your classmates and participate in special programs aimed toward your major. We want all students to feel safe and comfortable in their living space, which is why UNL Housing also provides gender-inclusive housing options for students who do not identify with their sex at birth. University Housing Dining Services Offering everything from traditional fare to international entrees and make-your-own dishes, our Dining Centers offer up everything you could want and more. With long hours and creative options, they're a great place to grab nourishment, catch up with friends, or relax with a cup of coffee and study. Dining Services Learning Communities Learning Communities are open to any interested student during their first-year at UNL. Our Learning Communities are focused on many different academic interests, as well as one—University Exploration—for those who aren’t yet sure about their academic home at UNL. Applications are accepted on a first-come, first-served basis. To apply for membership in a Learning Community, indicate your preference on your Housing Contract. Learning Communities Fraternity and Sorority Living Units If you are interested in joining a fraternity or sorority with a living unit, you have another option to consider when it comes to living on campus. First-year fraternity members have the option of living in a fraternity chapter house. First-year sorority members are required to live in a UNL residence hall but may join a chapter during formal recruitment which occurs the week before fall classes begin. Greek Resources Around Campus Campus Maps Campus Offices & Administrative Units Colleges, Departments & Programs Parking & Transit Services University Housing Dining Menu Technical Support Computer Help Desk Computer Shop NCard Printing & Copy Services Student Email Safety & Emergency Emergency Planning & Preparedness TIPS Incident Reporting University Police Victim Advocate Personal Resources Childcare Center International Student & Scholar Services LGBTQA+ Resource Center Office of Student Assistance Student Government (ASUN) Student Legal Services Women’s Center Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Intramurals Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) University Health Center Activities Daily Nebraskan Greek Affairs Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center Lied Center for Performing Arts Nebraska Innovation Studio Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Student Involvement We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.