Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Cost, Tuition and Financial Aid UCF Named “A Best Buy College” by Forbes Skip to Section We believe a college education should provide lifelong benefits — not lifelong debt. From scholarships and grants to student loans, there are many ways to pay for college. We’re here to guide you every step of the way. Cost Last year, 72 percent of undergraduate students at UCF received some form of financial aid, and 44 percent graduated with no educational debt. Nationally, only 34 percent of students graduate debt-free. Kiplinger consistently ranks a UCF education among the nation’s best values. View Breakdown of Tuition & Fee Schedule Financial Aid The combination of financial aid plus scholarship funds can have a profound impact on your future success in and after college. Whether you’re interested in learning about scholarships, loans or personal finance, The Office of Student Financial Assistance has all the information you need. Visit The Office of Financial Aid Residency for Tuition Purposes The Office of Undergraduate Admissions makes initial residency determinations for new incoming undergraduate applicants. For specific information regarding the state of Florida requirements for residency determination for tuition purposes, please refer to the Florida Board of Governors website. Estimated 2021-22 Annual Cost* Florida Resident Costs Fee Name Rate Tuition and Fees $6,379 Room and Board $11,498 Books $1,200 Total $19,077 Non-Florida Resident Costs Fee Name Rate Tuition and Fees $22,479 Room and Board $11,498 Books $1,200 Total $35,177 *Based upon 30 credit hours, standard room and meal plan Merit Scholarships Seek out and apply for scholarships during your senior year of high school or during the months before you transfer to UCF from another college. Since funds are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis to those who qualify, applying for admission to UCF early will improve your chances of being considered for a merit award, . A2O, a scholarship application system, includes a comprehensive list of UCF scholarships available to students from individual colleges, departments and organizations. Complete a one-time application to be considered for over 100 different scholarships. Additional online scholarships can be found through search engines such as Fastweb. Additionally, UCF offers a variety of merit-based scholarships to incoming FTIC (first-time-in-college) students that are distributed over four years and range from: $4,000 to $30,000 for Florida residents $30,000 to $42,000 for non-Florida residents NOTE: FTICs are encouraged to apply for admission to UCF between September and November of their senior year for priority scholarship consideration. Scholarship funding is limited. The Scholarship Committee reviews admitted FTICs until all scholarship funding has been allocated. Scholarship funding for FTICs is usually exhausted by mid-January for the incoming summer and fall classes. Here are some awards we have available: Freshman Pegasus Awards If you’re applying as a high school student for the summer or fall semester, you will automatically be considered for a UCF Pegasus Scholarship or another admission award. The selection process is competitive, as fewer than 25 percent of our students receive an offer. If we offer you a scholarship, we will contact you by mail and through your application portal. Learn more about the Pegasus awards Please note that our merit scholarship review process is not concurrent with offers of admission. Freshman Provost Award One of our most prestigious scholarships, the Provost Award is offered to Florida residents with outstanding academic credentials. High school seniors applying as incoming freshmen for the summer or fall semester will be considered for this award. Awarded to less than 10 percent of the entering freshman class, this award also includes priority consideration for admission to The Burnett Honors College upon completion of the Honors application. Learn more about Freshman Provost award. Please note that our merit scholarship review process is not concurrent with offers of admission. National Merit and National Recognition Program Awards UCF is ranked among the top 30 colleges in the nation — 13th among public universities — and second in Florida for its number of enrolled National Merit Scholars. Our top-notch academic programs, competitive scholarship packages and exciting location attract some of the most talented and accomplished students from across the nation. Students designated as a National Merit Scholar or National Recognition Program Scholar should contact the staff of The Scholars Program via email at [email protected] or call 407-823-6179. Learn more about the National Merit Scholar awards. Learn more about the National Recognition Program Scholar awards. Transfer Scholarship Awards Students earning an A.A. degree from a Florida public community or state college and transferring to UCF for the fall semester are eligible to apply for a UCF Transfer Scholarship. Applications are available in mid-January through the scholarship application deadline in mid-April each year: The 2022 UCF Transfer Scholarship application is now closed. Information for students enrolling in Fall 2023 will be available in February 2023. Qualified applicants can receive the UCF Transfer Scholarship only once. Dual enrollment students earning an A.A. degree and a high school diplima at the same time do not qualify for this scholarship, but they will be automatically considered for a UCF freshman scholarship based upon their academic credentials. For more information on this award, contact the Scholarship Coordinator at [email protected]. View other types of financial aid. All-Florida Academic Team Scholarship (AFAT) UCF offers an AFAT award depending on a student’s designation as determined by the Florida Department of Education and Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) each year. Consideration for the AFAT award is currently closed. For more information on this award, contact the Scholarship Coordinator at [email protected]. Scholarship Tips Get started early. The application cycle for many of these awards begins one year or more in advance of college enrollment. Check deadlines and write down when notifications will be made. Confirm your residency status. Students with residency status for tuition purposes marked “Pending” will not be considered for merit scholarships. Apply for scholarships and awards through the A20 Scholarship Listing. Search for scholarships annually. Award availability may vary. Once you receive an award, find out if it’s renewable and follow the renewal guidelines. Learn as much as you can about as many awards as possible. Follow up. Keep copies of all correspondence. Out-of-State and Other Tuition Waivers There are a number of waivers that the university offers that may apply to you. There are two waivers that the Office of Undergraduate Admissions administers: the Florida High School Graduate Out-of-State Tuition Waiver and the Grandparent Waiver. Requirements and instructions for these waivers are listed on each form. Please check with the Office of Student Financial Assistance for information on eligibility and requirements for other waivers. Information on other benefits is available through UCF Student Account Services or the UCF Veterans Academic Resource Center. Please Note: Waivers awarded by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions may not be combined with other admissions merit-based scholarships. UCF Colleges and Departmental Scholarships Many colleges and departments offer scholarships specific to an area of specialization to students. Listed below are links to the various colleges on campus with scholarship listings. Colleges on campus with scholarship listings and their phone numbers College/Department Phone Number College of Business 407-823-2181 College of Arts and Humanities 407-823-2251 College of Community Innovation and Education 407-823-3723 The Burnett Honors College 407-823-2076 College of Engineering and Computer Science 407-823-2455 UCF Alumni Engagement and Annual Giving Scholarships 407-823-ALUM College of Health Professions and Sciences 407-823-0171 Transfer and Transition Services 407-823-5959 Rosen College of Hospitality Management 407-903-8175 Multicultural Academic and Support Services 407-823-2716 College of Sciences 407-823-1997 Student Accessibility Services 407-823-2371 College of Nursing 407-823-2744 Global Perspectives 407-823-0688 UCF Abroad 407-823-2300 College of Graduate Studies 407-823-2766 CREOL, College of Optics and Photonics 407-823-6800 Admissions Forms Browse all admissions forms and make your application journey easy and worry-free. Freshman Admissions Criteria Review UCF’s undergraduate admissions requirements to be considered for admission. Apply Now We’ve made it easier than ever to apply to UCF. Start your application today. Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter