Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches In the 1970s, sea turtle populations were in major decline as people sought their meat, eggs, leather and shells. In 1973, all sea turtles were protected under the U.S. Endangered Species Act. That was around the same time that “Doc” Ehrhart, the founder of the UCF Marine Turtle Research Group, began studying turtles along Florida’s East Coast. The late researcher, who died in March just shy of his 80th birthday, was instrumental in helping to establish the Carr refuge, a haven for turtles during their annual nesting ritual. “He’s the reason that any of us are doing this work at all,” said Katrina Phillips, a Ph.D. student with the UCF research group. “We’re trying to catch every part of the life cycle now, with the eggs on the beach at the beginning, the end with moms nesting on the beach. We have teenagers in the lagoon, and way offshore in the Gulf of Mexico we find the ‘lost years’ turtles.” Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan The University of Central Florida in Orlando has approved its newest strategic plan - one that targets increasing its prominence as a research university. The UCF Board of Trustees unanimously approved the plan during its May 26 meeting, which covers the five-year period between 2022 and 2027. Michael Johnson, UCF's provost, said during the meeting that it's the university's responsibility to act in the public good by providing training opportunities as well to provide research and innovation that boosts economic development in the area. The university's position of being the only public research university in the growing metropolitan area puts it in a place where it can reach the goals set by the plan, he added. Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water When Kerri Donaldson Hanna looks at the full moon she sees a future full of opportunity. “I see so much possibility. Humans have put their feet there, looked back at Earth, and saw it as that object in the sky,” said Hanna, a planetary geologist at the University of Central Florida. “I see it as a geographically interesting place. It holds a lot of what’s possible for our future. We’ve been there, but what else can we do?” Hanna and a research team of UCF students are working to print a map of possibilities by creating spectral instruments for a NASA satellite capable of scanning and producing high-resolution maps of water on the moon. Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster A new device developed in Central Florida could change the future of surgeries, making them safer and preventing excessive blood loss. "It was very terrifying. I’m an anesthesiologist, so I kind of new about Tetralogy of Fallot, but I didn’t know the mom side of it all," said Sara Moseman, referring to a rare congenital heart condition that consists of four heart defects. She found out while pregnant at 24 weeks that her son, Asher – her soon-to-be third child – had a serious birth defect, including a hole in his heart, which would require surgery after he was born. Asher's surgery was special in many ways, one of which was that he was part of a research study on a new blood monitoring device that was developed by University of Central Florida and Orlando Health. The new technology – a small optical fiber – was designed to track red blood cells and monitor in real-time how thick or thin the blood so doctors can watch for blood clots and prevent excessive blood loss during surgery. To check for clots now, doctors have to take a blood sample and send it to a lab for analysis, which can take up to 30 minutes to receive the results. "In three minutes’ time, serious blood loss can result in brain damage. We can’t wait 30 minutes," said Orlando Health Dr. William DeCampli. The optical fiber used during Asher's surgery is small – smaller than the back of an earring – and allows doctors to insert the fiber through a catheter or machine without requiring a sample. "There is no need to take a sample, there is no need to run to the lab to go through a test," said principal investigator and UCF professor Arisitide Dogariu. WOFL Fox 35 UCF Softball, Maddie Bejarano’s Brother Head to NCAA Super Regionals A special guest will be making their way to Norman, Okla. when No. 16 UCF softball faces No. 1 Oklahoma in the program’s first NCAA Super Regional this weekend. UCF outfielder Maddie Bejarano’s younger brother, Tanner, who has Down syndrome, will be traveling from Arizona to the Sooner State to support his sister and the Knights. What’s unique about the travel plans is how they came about. Following a push on social media to help raise funds for Tanner to make the trip, Bejarano signed a name, image and likeness deal with the Sons of UCF Podcast, an organization that covers the Knights. “The UCF community has really helped out a lot to give my brother this opportunity and he’s ecstatic,” Bejarano said. “I let him get these moments through me. He’s not given the same opportunity as me, so for him to just experience all of this — it’s amazing.” More than $2,000 was raised to help cover travel expenses for her brother. As part of the NIL deal, Bejarano will work with the podcast to help create content on its YouTube channel and social media accounts. “So many people were involved in helping make this happen,” Adam Eaton, a host of the podcast, told the Orlando Sentinel. “It truly was a Knight Nation community effort and I’m just glad we could help in any small way. And it’s for a great cause, so it makes it that much better.” Orlando Sentinel Florida Researchers Developing Tool to Screen Seniors for Vulnerability to Scams An older person’s susceptibility to scams often goes undetected until it’s too late and they have already been victimized. Now a University of Central Florida researcher is teaming up with others at the University of Florida and University of Miami to solve that problem. Nichole Lighthall, a UCF assistant professor with a doctorate in gerontology, says the team’s scientific aims are finding the risk factors for scams, fraud and misinformation among older adults, including seniors with mild cognitive impairment. WMFE Efforts to Reach At-risk Youth in Orange, Orlando Gain Momentum Credible Messengers of Florida is poised to soon begin its work with Orange County to pinpoint potential mentors for at-risk youth to help stem violent crime, months after the grassroots organization was passed over for a $150,000 contract. Meanwhile, a University of Central Florida researcher is studying what drove credible messengers to crime earlier in life. The goal, researcher Katherine Philp said, is to use the feedback from study participants to cultivate strategies for youth outreach and intervention. Orlando Sentinel Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month: Meet UCF Professor Stella Sung May is Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month and WFTV recently visited a UCF professor who continues to reinvent herself while helping the local community. Stella Sung’s work has been performed all over the world. Her most recent composition — Oceania — was performed at The Dr. Phillips Center in Orlando. WFTV Channel 9 UCF Faculty Member Provides Group Trauma Therapy to Ukrainian Counselors Over Zoom Amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Gulnora Hundley, a counselor and lecturer at the University of Central Florida, has found a unique way to help the Ukrainian people. She provides free trauma therapy over Zoom to groups of psychologists working amid war and displacement. Hundley says she has helped 70 so far. WMFE 1 2 Next … 229 Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida