Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Ranked one of the top-10 supercomputing campuses in the country, Clemson offers computer science majors a unique opportunity to collaborate with computing specialists and faculty. Our nationally recognized faculty hold a variety of research interests and experience across industry and academia. As technology continues to advance rapidly, job offers in computing professions remain very high. From the classroom to the lab, your studies and research will prepare you for a career in software development, computer system support, the entertainment industry, government agencies or the IT department that exists in every medium- to large-size company. We offer both a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts in computer science, which will both prepare you to enter the workforce as a highly sought-after recruit or continue on to graduate school. FAST FACTS We offer both a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts in computer science and a five-year fast track bachelor's/master's degree program. We offer a minor in digital production arts for animation and game design. Our graduates have found positions with companies such as Google, IBM, Crowdstrike, TIAA, Duke Energy and Ally Financial, among others. The Palmetto Cluster is one of the largest supercomputers in the country and ranks fourth among U.S. academic systems on the Top500 list. It received a $1 million upgrade in 2018. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment in computer and mathematical occupations is expected to grow by 18 percent between 2012 and 2022. The B.S. in computer science program is approved by the Computing Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Our Bachelor of Science in computer science is a technically oriented degree designed for students interested in software development for basic computer science, scientific and engineering applications. Throughout your classes you'll delve further into the technical aspects of computers with classes such as algorithms and data structures, software engineering, computer security, computer graphics, game design and network programming. You will also build a strong mathematical foundation in calculus, probability and statistics, and linear algebra. Along with computer science core classes, our Bachelor of Arts is a liberal arts degree that provides you with the maximum flexibility in designing a program that supports your interests while also providing a firm foundation in computer science. With this, you'll also add on a minor; one of the most popular choices for our students is digital production arts, which prepares students for careers or graduate study in visual effects, computer animation and electronic games. This minor is excellent preparation for Clemson's unique Master of Fine Arts program in digital production arts. Other popular minors are in business, fine arts and psychology. Combined Bachelor's/Master's Plan Get a jump-start on your Master of Science in computer science while completing your bachelor's. In our dual-degree program you can apply up to nine graduate credit hours to both your undergraduate and graduate degrees. Curriculum Computer Science, B.A. Computer Science, B.S. Popular Minors Digital Production Arts Business Administration Mathematical Sciences Psychology Similar Majors Computer Engineering (B.S.) Computer Information Systems (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Dive into your major outside your standard classes, and meet and network with fellow students and working professionals. As a computer science major you'll have great chances to research alongside your classmates as well as our nationally known faculty. ACM Join fellow students in Clemson's student chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery and get involved in social events, fundraisers, distinguished lectures, career discussion panels and the ACM collegiate programming contest. Join Many of our undergraduates work in one of our 16 research labs and groups. Learn to develop phone applications, build systems for training medical personnel, design educational games or create brain-computer interfaces. Research Learn about computing research! Paid summer research programs for undergraduates are available at Clemson and at computer science programs across the country. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Study Abroad Creative Inquiry Student ACM CU Cyber PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Systems Analyst Amazon Web Services Software Engineer Apple Associate Consultant Microsoft Data Scientist Boeing Business Technology Analyst Deloitte RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MFA Digital Production Arts Clemson University M.S. Computational Science Michigan State University M.S. Computer Science North Carolina State University M.S. Data Analytics University of Central Florida Ph.D. Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology COMMON CAREER AREAS Programming Systems Scientific Applications Business Applications Intelligence Warehousing Information Delivery Maintenance Systems Development Analysis Design Support Quality Assurance Specialty Systems Database Client-Server Network Technology Installation and Maintenance Administration Internet Programming Software Design Systems Analysis Hardware Production Web Page Design Consulting Education Non-Technical Customer and Product Support Technical Writing Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Computer Engineering (B.S.) Computer Information Systems (B.S.)