Skip to main content Important Information About COVID-19 Testing, Vaccines, Masks and Resources Information For: Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Resources Visit Apply Request Info Give Close search Search Search People Directory A-Z Index Admissions & Financial Aid Meet With Our Enrollment Team First Time in College Transfer Adult Learners Graduate Students Online Students International Students Readmitted Students High School Dual Enrollment Non-degree Senior Citizens Enrollment Services Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Application FAQ Counselors/Advisers Apply Today Orientation Visit Campus Application Tracker Contact Admissions Academics Majors and Programs College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences College of Science and Technology George Dean Johnson, Jr. College of Business and Economics Mary Black College of Nursing College of Education, Human Performance, and Health University College Greenville Campus Upstate Online Academic Catalog Center for African American Studies Center for International Studies Center for Women's and Gender Studies Honors Program USC Upstate Library College of Education, Human Performance, and Health South Carolina Centro Latino Athletics Tickets Schedules U Club Give to Athletics Eddie Payne Endowment Locker Room Campaign Men's Soccer Raffle Research Sponsored Awards and Research Support The Franklin School SC INBRE National Science Foundation Campus Life Bookstore CARE Team Counseling Services Dean of Students Dining Services Health Education Health Services Housing and Residential Life Office of Student Involvement Campus Recreation Disability Services Spartans Care Diversity Office of Institutional Equity, Inclusion, and Engagement Student Diversity Resources Faculty and Staff Diversity Resources Impact Agenda Employee Resource Groups Information For: Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni University of South Carolina Upstate News Events More News More Events News and Events Apply Today About Us Employment Change Your Community. Change Your Future. Your story Starts at USC Upstate. You are a difference-maker. An agent of change. A dreamer with big goals and a bigger drive to achieve them. USC Upstate is where dreams become missions, and missions become impactful, life-changing careers. Ready to start your story? Request More Information Find Your Major Visit Campus Virtual Tour Discover Your Next Chapter USC Upstate's campus is one of the most beautiful in the nation. Launch Experience Up is Where People Meet Passion...and Bring It Home. Ja’Bria Harley, ‘22 “The most valuable part of my experience here was being able to connect with so many students and have some commonality. By doing so, I’ve gained lifelong relationships and surpassed any goals I’ve set for myself.” Apply Today Congratulations Class of 2022 USC Upstate has conferred the largest graduating class in its 55-year history. Join the celebration by taking a look back on this momentous event. View Graduation Photos and Livestream Recording Academics Nationally recognized and best in South Carolina, Upstate prepares globally competitive professionals with an accessible, rigorous, and career-relevant education. Learn More Campus Life More than 90 student organizations and clubs, along with numerous programs and activities, make it easy to get connected at USC Upstate. Learn More Athletics As a member of the Big South Conference, Spartans compete in 15 NCAA Division I sports. Learn More Beautiful Campus in a Thriving Community USC Upstate’s 330-acre main campus is nestled in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains in thriving Spartanburg County, between Atlanta and Charlotte, N.C. Learn More Invest in Our Future At USC Upstate, you have the option to direct your gift to more than 400 funds, including athletics, programs, and scholarships. Learn More Half a Billion Annual Economic Impact With more than 30,000 alumni living and working in the region, USC Upstate is a major engine of social, economic, and talent development in South Carolina. Learn More 800 University Way Spartanburg, SC 29303 864-503-5000 | 800-277-8727 info@uscupstate.edu Hours Monday - Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Quick Links About the University Majors and Programs Student Organizations Campus Maps Campus Services Bookstore Upstate Online College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences College of Science and Technology George D. Johnson, Jr. College of Business and Economics Mary Black College of Nursing School of Education, Human Performance, and Health Contact University Police Stay Connected © 2022, All Rights Reserved A-Z Index About Employment Give