Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Living & Dining A place to call their own Traditional or modern residence halls. Shared apartments. Greek life and off-campus housing. Whether your student loves to socialize or craves quiet time, the UW has a place to meet their needs. It’s not required, but 71% of UW freshmen choose to live on campus because of the convenience and community. And speaking of convenience, hungry Huskies will find no shortage of on-campus food choices. The Seattle campus features 30 dining locations — including restaurants, cafés, food trucks, food courts and markets. Our Move In page can help get you started preparing for your student’s first year if they choose to live on campus. Talk with your Husky How housing choices might affect the balance between studying and social life Living with roommates/sharing space with others Support from resident advisers (RAs) How to do laundry and keep a clean living space Keeping track of HFS deadlines and events Explore more conversation topics A room for everyone Nearly 10,000 UW students live, study and socialize in on-campus residence halls and apartments managed by UW Housing & Food Services (HFS). On-campus housing for undergraduates includes residence halls (dormitories) and shared apartments with full kitchens. Housing may be arranged for the nine-month academic year or year round. Explore different housing options by taking a video tour of the UW residence halls and apartments. HFS tours on YouTube Healthy eats No matter where they live, your UW student will have access to a wide range of healthy meals and snacks. Many residence halls require students to have a dining plan. For students living in apartments, optional dining plans provide flexibility and convenience. About dining plans More to explore Dates and deadlines The Housing and Food Services (HFS) calendar can help you and your students keep track of important dates and deadlines. See the calendar Greek housing options If your student is interested in becoming a member of a fraternity or sorority at UW, you will want to make sure to explore the unique options available at the 19 sororities and 32 fraternities for your student to build community with their fellow members. Check out a map of the 51 chapter houses and eight annex properties that house approximately 3,500 members. Explore Greek housing Off-campus housing The university offers a number of supports for students living at home or in off-campus housing. We encourage you to discuss the options with your student and check out the Commuter & Transfer Commons resources. Student Legal Services can also help review off-campus rental agreements. Find off-campus listings The UW Food Pantry We provide food to students, staff, and faculty who are having a hard time putting food on their plate. Find out more Campus contacts Housing & Food Services (HFS) Student Services Office 206-543-4059 hfsinfo@uw.edu Resident Dining Program Student Legal Services (SLS) Free service rental & lease agreements review Husky Union Building 306 206-543-6486 slsuw@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA