Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search Harvard Chan-NIEHS Center for Environmental Health News & Events Announcements & Opportunities Calendar of Events Series & Seminars Videos & Multimedia Submit a News Item E-Newsletters Core Components Research Cores Metals Research Core Particulate Matter and Other Air Pollutants Core Organic Chemicals Research Core Community Engagement Core (CEC) Environmental Statistics & Bioinformatics Core (ESBC) Integrated Health Science Facility Core (IHSFC) Geographic & Contextual Measures Core (GCMC) Pilot Projects Career Development Community Resources Environmental Racism in Greater Boston: an Interactive Web Resource Environmental Health Disparities – An Overview (2021) Apply for Funds Pilot Projects Facility Access Funds Community Action Funds About Us Director’s Welcome About the Center History Our People Become A Member How to Cite Center Support Contact Us White House focusing on air quality to fight COVID-19 Read More Member Joseph Allen, associate professor of exposure assessment science and director of the Healthy Buildings program at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, spoke at a White House event focused on indoor air quality called “Let’s Clear The Air On COVID.” Read More Study Finds Possible Link Between Air Pollution and Psychiatric Health Read More A paper published in The Lancet Planetary Health found that in the US Medicare population, short-term exposure to elevated concentrations of PM2·5 , NO2 and cold season ambient temperature increase were significantly associated with an increased risk of hospital admissions for psychiatric disorders (including depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorders). Read More Environmental Racism in Boston: An Interactive Web Resource Read More This interactive web resource focuses on environmental racism in greater Boston, as well as efforts to promote environmental justice in the area. Read More New Study: Racial, ethnic minorities and low-income groups in U.S. exposed to higher levels of air pollution Read More Read More Decreased vehicle emissions linked with significant drop in deaths attributable to air pollution Read More As emissions fell over a decade, the number of deaths attributable to air pollution dropped by thousands, yielding billions of dollars in societal benefits. Read More Mission Our Center is dedicated to re-envisioning the exposure environment and the integrated effects of chemical and non-chemical stressors of people and place to better understand the impact of exposure on human health. Learn More Announcements & Opportunities Get the latest on the exciting research our Center members are currently working on. Read more Our Services We offer services in Biological Analysis, Environmental Genomics, Metals, Organic Chemicals, and Particles. Read more Apply for Funds Pilot Project Funding (up to $30,000) Facility Access Funds (up to $10,000) Community Action Funds (TBD) Read more Collaborative Opportunities Opportunities to collaborate across disciplines, fields of study, etc. Read more Meet Our Members This series features short profiles on our Center members. Read More Sign Up for Our E-Newsletter Get the latest updates on news and events from our Center! Read more Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Upcoming Events Jun 22 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm Center Chalk Talks Aug 25 12:00 pm - 1:30 pm Recurring Specific Aims Review Session View Calendar Harvard Chan-NIEHS Center for Environmental Health on Twitter @liew_zeyan @mweissko @hsphniehsctr @JillEscher Thx Zeyan!!! @mweissko @Gyeyoon3 @hsphniehsctr @JillEscher Congratulations @Gyeyoon3 ! Way to go ⁦@Gyeyoon3⁩ !!! Well deserved! What great 3-gen work!! Congratulations!!! ⁦@hsphniehsctr⁩ @JillEscher⁩ https://t.co/n3zJ8f5XOU In person graduation!! Congratulations ⁦⁦on your PhD @epimikey⁩ !!! ⁦@hsphniehsctr⁩ https://t.co/FqCxeWDHoP RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Congratulations #Harvard22! Special shout out to our incredible @HarvardChanSPH Student Ambassadors—Kate Adams, Ellen… Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College