Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre, BFA Become Well-Versed in Producing Creative Experiences Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Theatre 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Train for Opportunities On Stage and Back Stage with a Theatre Degree The BFA program in theatre provides you with the first-hand knowledge and skills required to succeed within the industry. With five tracks available, you’ll have an opportunity to study in a discipline that aligns with your professional and personal goals. Theatre UCF is located in Orlando, an entertainment mecca. Here, you’ll spend time creating productions, participating in professional internships and making connections with top employers around Central Florida. Busy production seasons provide you with an opportunity to apply what you learn in the classroom. Plus, you’ll gain valuable experience working with the Celebration of the Arts each year at the Dr. Phillips Performing Arts Center, a state-of-the-art performing arts venue in downtown Orlando. Acting Track Cover different areas of acting in your coursework, including various styles of stage and film acting, applied voice, dance, stagecraft, stage combat, history, script analysis, makeup, directing, career/business planning and auditioning. Plus, there are many ways to get involved, like Project Spotlight, a student organization that develops new works and provides opportunities with our Orlando partners such as Disney, Orlando Shakes, The Orlando Repertory Theatre, Universal and others. Design and Technology Track Learn how to analyze dramatic material — scripts, scores and outlines — for their thematic and emotional impact and conceptualize dynamic design ideas which engage audiences’ senses. Plus, gain experience bringing a vision to life through teamwork and implement practical skills such as traditional/digital drawing and painting, virtual modeling, audio/video/lighting programing, fabric patterning, and welding/carpentry/computer-controlled fabrication. Musical Theatre Track Gain skills in music theory, piano, acting, applied voice, dance, stagecraft, history, script analysis, makeup, directing, career/business planning and auditioning. A professional internship is also required before graduating. Many graduates go on to work for partners, including Disney and Universal. Stage Management Track Learn the art and craft of stage managing through courses that focus on management theory, rehearsal and performance management, paperwork, organizational theory, theatrical unions, contracts and the business of theatre. You’ll gain experience managing a variety of live events both on campus and at the Dr. Phillips Performing Arts Center, including traditional plays, musicals, corporate events, concerts, opera, dance, devised work, touring and industry presentations. Highlights The theatre program at UCF is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre. Pursue your career interests through the 5 tracks available within the theatre degree program. There are an estimated 70,000 job openings for actors annually. The national average salary for actors and performers is $58,000. Application Requirements Theatre BFA programs require an audition, portfolio review and/or interview in addition to an application to the university. Interested students are strongly encouraged to check with individual program coordinators for deadlines and specifics about the application process. Find program requirements Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Theatre Survey Gain an overview of the art and craft of the theatre. Script Analysis for Theatre Explore dramatic form with focus on playscripts for productions. Acting I - Introduction Develop imagination, self-awareness and the ability to execute basic stage tasks. The Stage Management BFA program has given me an incredible understanding of the art of stage managing and the theatrical business as a whole. I’ve met lifelong colleagues and have been given infinite tools to create a successful career working in New York City upon my graduation. This is only the beginning of my professional career as a stage manager, and I am immensely grateful for the educational training I’ve received through the BFA program.” — Lauren Koval, BFA Stage Management graduating 2021 Theatre Skills You’ll Learn Build your marketability through local and national networking opportunities. Work in a variety of industries, including Broadway tours, cruise ships, regional theatres, outdoor drama, theatre for youth, festivals, theme parks and more. Collaborate with various teams where you’ll bring your individual ideas to life part of a larger vision which incorporates many different disciplines. Career Opportunities Scenic, Lighting, Sound, Make-up and Costume Designer Stage Manager Actor in Film and On Stage Voice-Over Actor Singer Stage Director Theatre Technician Theatre UCF News Check out more stories Arts & Culture Daniel Jones Remembered as Dedicated Member of UCF, Orlando Arts Community A Celebration of Life event will be held for UCF’s longtime costume shop manager on Oct. 17. Reservations are required. Colleges & Campus Theatre UCF Returns to the Stage this Spring Tickets go on sale Jan. 19 for three outdoor performances scheduled this semester for audiences to enjoy on campus and downtown. Colleges & Campus Theatre Professor Uses Sewing Skills to Help UCF Police UCF’s resident costume designer and her family are making masks for officers stationed at the COVID-19 testing site on campus. Colleges & Campus Meet the 2020 Pegasus Professors Ronald DeMara, Joseph Harrington, Julia Listengarten and Gregory Welch have been selected for the highest academic award a professor can receive at UCF. Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Theatre (BFA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida