Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Admissions Costs and Financial Aid Costs and Financial Aid Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 TUITION AND FEES for all academic programs ESTIMATED COST OF ATTENDANCE Your legal education at SMU is an investment in your future. Recognizing that most students do not have sufficient personal resources to make this investment, however, SMU provides several financial options to help you afford this investment in the form of scholarships and loans. Financial Aid SMU Graduate Financial Aid Office Private Scholarship Opportunities Other Helpful Financial Aid Links Loans Taxes Financial Aid 101 Academic Program Timelines J.D. J.D/M.B.A. J.D./M.B.A. Fast Track J.D./M.A. Economics Comparative and International Law LL.M. General LL.M. Tax LL.M. S.J.D. Bursar's Office Blanton Building Lobby Anthony Mata, Student Account Advisor: 214-768-2799 or anthonymata@smu.edu Billing questions Student Finances Payment Plan Options Refunds Emergency Loans The Amy Abboud ('87, '90) and Leslie Ware ('89, '92) Emergency Loan Fund is a revolving loan program established for the purpose of providing emergency loan assistance to law students who have unexpected financial needs arise during the course of the year above and beyond that which can be reasonably planned for or accommodated through the normal financial aid process. Generally, under the terms of the program, any currently-enrolled student who does not have an outstanding emergency loan may request to borrow up to $750. Loans must be repaid within three months, except for second semester third-year students who must repay their emergency loans prior to graduation. Students applying for an emergency loan must demonstrate that they have a potential source of repayment. Applications for an Amy Abboud and Leslie Ware Emergency Loan are available here. Completed applications should be submitted by email to Dean Yeager at syeager@smu.edu, in his absence, the Director of Finance. Loans will be disbursed and payments should be made through the Finance Office. Once approved, the student must also submit a completed and signed bank deposit form and provide a voided check or ACH form for their banking institution. Borrowers must recognize that the future availability of this fund for other law students depends on prompt and full repayment of all emergency loans. In the event of default, a hold will be placed on the borrowers university record, including registration privileges and transcript requests. In addition, the Deans office may withhold certification of a borrower's character and fitness to state bar examiners. The Donors Amy Abboud and Leslie Ware are practicing attorneys in Dallas. Amy, a 1990 graduate of the Law School, is a criminal defense attorney. Leslie, a 1992 graduate of the Law School, maintains a plaintiffs practice, specializing in wrongful death, medical negligence and products liability cases. They wish to share the following thoughts with beneficiaries of this loan fund: Amy and I hope this loan is helpful to you in a difficult or stressful period. Years from now, when you are a successful lawyer, we hope that you will remember it and use your skills and power to help some other person in need. Good luck to you, and feel free to call either of us at any time. We wish you all the best in your pursuit of the practice of law and in all your future endeavors. If you wish to send a thank you note or otherwise correspond with the Wares, they may be reached at: Amy Abboud and Leslie Ware Monts & Ware 1701 N. Market St., Suite 330 Dallas, TX 75202 (214) 744-5000 (214) 744-5013 fax Financial Aid Laura Lee Blanton Building, Suite 119 6185 Airline Drive 9 am - 4 pm M-F Shaun Walker: 214-768-3348 or marshaunw@mail.smu.edu http://www.smu.edu/EnrollmentServices/FinancialAid/TypesOfAid/GraduateFinancialAid MAX Program We know how important it is to protect and nurture your law school investment. And to do that, you need expert guidance and support to make informed financial decisions, during law school and beyond. That is why we’ve partnered with AccessLex Institute – the largest philanthropic organization dedicated to access, affordability, and the value of legal education – to bring you MAX by AccessLex, an innovative personal finance program created exclusively for law students. Available at no cost, MAX drives the knowledge gain and behavior change that is essential to improving your financial well-being. The MAX program: Teaches personal finance in a way that leverages the skills law school attracts and fosters; Takes a multi-format approach – including an interactive online curriculum, in-person workshops, one-on-one counseling, and more – that recognizes different learning styles and knowledge bases, letting you define your own path; Delivers information in a quick and easy to understand components to fit into your demanding schedule; and Offers scholarship incentives to motivate you to stay on task and on track. MAX provides a comprehensive personal finance program, featuring a building-block curriculum. During your 1L year, you will focus primarily on foundational elements that will prepare you for the 2L curriculum, which will in turn instill in you a confidence and readiness for the 3L material. MAX will be there for each step of your law school journey, to make sure you are graduating with maximized financial capability! To get started, go to MAX by AccessLex. Your name, school email address, school and class year are all you need to log-in to the program, personalize your experience and track your progress. No other personal information is required, and all information remains confidential. Scholarships and Writing Competitions As we become aware of third-party scholarships and writing competitions, we provide links to relevant information under Scholarships and Writing Competitions. We also post opportunities on the bulletin board outside the Registrar’s Office. Costs and Financial Aid Estimated Cost of Attendance Scholarships and Loans Tuition and Fees Download brochure Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram