Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Credit by Exam Transfer Credit Course Equivalency Guides Reverse Credit Transfer Supplementary Course List Transfer Plans Transferology TRANSIT Soar in 4 Honors Program Learning Communities Turn your passion into a profession. From being home to the first electronic digital computer and the only university in the country to have a U.S. Department of Energy research lab on campus, Iowa State is known for making major discoveries. With a small average class size and a student-faculty ratio of 19:1, you won’t get lost in the crowd. One of the hardest parts of this journey might be choosing where to start. Begin by checking out our more than 100 majors, minors and certificates that can be customized to maximize your impact in the world. Find Your Adventure Large university. Small feel. Just your size. We have six undergraduate colleges with more than 100 majors and 180 graduate programs — as well as one of the nation’s best veterinary medicine schools. All of which are designed to give your career a major boost! Our unique multidisciplinary approach to learning allows you to collaborate with others in different colleges. This method is proven to inspire critical thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills. All the things that make employers salivate. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Top 4% Worldwide among other agriculture and forestry institutions Feeding (and changing) the world. One of the world’s leading agricultural colleges preparing students to make a difference as leaders who address life’s greatest challenges in food, the environment, and plant-animal-health systems. We offer the nation’s top agricultural engineering and technology programs, an award-winning entrepreneurship program, and the nation’s only student-managed farm. More Info Ivy College of Business $1.25 M+ Undergraduate scholarships awarded yearly A college on the move. Business students innovate. In the Ivy College of Business you will be surrounded by innovators, entrepreneurs, and industry leaders. Find your path. Make an impact. New programs. New success opportunities. Caring faculty and staff support your vision for the future. Explore Ivy now. More Info College of Design 94% of graduates employed or continuing education within 6 months of graduation Designed to the be the best. One of the most comprehensive design institutions in the country, with nine undergraduate majors and collaborative opportunities that mirror professional design experiences. Our undergraduate architecture is ranked 22nd, interior design 15th, and landscape architecture 10th by DesignIntelligence. More Info College of Engineering Top 25 Engineering program at public universities Engineered for excellence. One of the largest undergraduate programs in the nation with 14 undergraduate programs of study. Internships, learning communities, study abroad, and hands-on experience help shape student success. More than 70 percent of engineering students graduate with engineering work experience. More Info College of Human Sciences 2280 Hours of paid research through the Louise Rosenfeld Undergraduate Research Internship For those whose passion is compassion. Human scientists enhance nearly every aspect of our daily lives. Within 14 diverse majors, students learn to improve what we wear, what we eat, and how we move, learn, and live through hands-on, experiential education. Approximately 80 percent of all CHS graduates participate in at least one experiential education experience—we put science into practice. More Info College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 563 Employers attend LAS Career Fairs A leader in creating leaders. Iowa State’s most academically diverse college helps students prepare for careers in many fields, from data science to psychology. With 50 majors, exceptional undergraduate research opportunities, and a new Innovation and Entrepreneurship Academy, LAS students become difference makers and problem-solvers ready to transform the world. More Info Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...