Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Menu Search TTU Animal Welfare Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare About this Laboratory Welcome to the Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare at Texas Tech University. Dr. McGlone studied animal behavior and physiology (immunology and neuroscience) in relation to farm animal performance starting in 1976 when he was an undergraduate in the laboratory of Dr. Keith Kelley (then at Washington State University). After his M.S. with Keith, he continued his studies with Dr. Stan Curtis and Dr. Ed Banks at the University of Illinois. After a 3-year faculty appointment at the University of Wyoming, Dr. McGlone moved to TTU. This laboratory began in 1984. We have broadened our studies from pigs to include cattle, horses, dogs, cats, rats, and mice. We employ measures of animal behavior and physiology to answer questions about animal health and welfare. Our measures have evolved over time. We have tackled the most difficult animal behavior and welfare problems with the aim of improving the lives of both animals and people. Current Laboratory Members Dr. John J. McGlone Dr. Arlene Garcia-Marquez, Research Assistant Professor Edgar Aviles-Rosa, Post-Doctoral Fellow and recent PhD student Courtney Archer, Staff and MS student Amanda Gonzales, Staff Former Laboratory Members Dr. Frank Mitloehner, UC-Davis Dr. Anna Johnson, Iowa State University Dr. Janeen Salak-Johnson, University of Illinois Dr. Jessica Carter, Middle Tennessee State University Dr. Julie Lynn Morrow, USDA-ARS Dr. Ellen Lumpkin, Columbia University Dr. Chana Akins, University of Kentucky Dr. Tiffanie Brooks, Texas Tech University Dr. Harold Anindo Rachuonyo, University of Eldoret, Kenya Dr. Sankar Ganesh-Devaraj, India Dr. Glenna Pirner, W Virginia Dr. Lingna Zhang, Penn State University Videos from this Laboratory Dog Horse Pig Rat Open Field Research Areas Pheromones Transport Sow Housing Comparative Medicine Pig Castration Tail Biting and Tail Docking Litter-Piglet Processing Feral Hog Project Sustainable Pork Farm Environmental Enrichment Measuring Animal Welfare Image Analysis Texas Tech Swine Unit Drs. John J. McGlone & Rebecca Robbins Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Address 1308 Indiana Ave Lubbock, TX 79409-2141 Phone 806.834.8275 Email john.mcglone@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 13, 2022 6:13 PM Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare About Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare About Back Faculty Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare About Faculty Back John J. McGlone Kimberly A. Guay Goutam Pada Shome Tiffanie A. Brooks Mhairi A. Sutherland Lab Members Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare About Lab Members Back Students and Staff Notable Graduates of this Laboratory Academics & Programs Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Academics & Programs Back Graduate Program Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Academics & Programs Graduate Program Back TTU Graduate School AFS Graduate Program Classes Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Academics & Programs Classes Back ANSC 5318 ANSC 4401 ANSC 3405 ANSC 3318 Research Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Research Back Research Areas Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Research Research Areas Back Pheromones Transport Sow Housing Comparative Medicine Pig Castration Tail Biting and Tail Docking Litter-Piglet Processing Feral Hog Project Sustainable Pork Farm Environmental Enrichment Measuring Animal Welfare Image Analysis Tools & Resources Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Tools & Resources Back Useful Links Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Tools & Resources Useful Links Back Animal & Food Sciences Department Office of Research Services Library Electronic Resources Animal Care and Use Committee Pork Industry Institute Organizations & Magazines Tools Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare Tools & Resources Tools Back Unit Conversions Researcher's Toolkit Mike Galyean's Power-Test Spreadsheet (% of Control Treatment) Mike Galyean's Power-Test Spreadsheet (Unit of Measurement) TTU Swine Unit Laboratory of Animal Behavior, Physiology and Welfare TTU Swine Unit Back Swine Use Request Forms Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index