Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Home » Centers & Initiatives » Institute for Leadership and Social Impact » Diversity, Equity and Inclusion » Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Menu Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships In alignment with, and in support of, Georgia Tech’s and Scheller’s strategic plans ILSI is providing leadership by engaging in actions that mobilize the DEI strategies and promotes the culture change required for moving forward an Equity Blueprint at Tech. We believe that we cannot create meaningful and sustainable social impact without having DE&I at the core of our practices and programming. In addition to continuing to focus our programming on social and racial justice topics - as we have done for several years in the past - we also aim to act as connectors and amplifiers by featuring and supporting our partners’ programs and resources. We invite campus and community partners to share their initiatives and consider collaborative opportunities for strengthening this work at Tech and beyond. We seek to support both the research and the practice of thought leadership needed for a meaningful culture change resulting in an inclusive and equitable society – starting with our campus at Georgia Tech. ILSI Programs Impact Speaker Series Impact talks are meaningful conversations focused on racial and social justice and DE&I with leaders from the corporate and the social sector. Excel Alumni Program (Coming Soon) Excel Program Excel was founded with the goal of providing students with intellectual and developmental disabilities (I/DD) an equitable avenue to higher education and to advocate for the inclusion of people with IDD in the workforce. While Excel is now under the auspices of CEISMC, ILSI continues to be at the forefront of advocating for inclusive education at Georgia Tech. Partner Resources ADVANCE Program Advocate. Advise. Educate. Empower. Supported by the Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion office, Georgia Tech’s ADVANCE Program builds and sustains an inter-college network of professors who are world-class researchers and role models to support the community and advancement of women and minorities in academia by: Advocating for diversity, equity, and inclusion. Advising campus leadership on policy and structure. Increasing awareness and reducing the impact of implicit bias. Making data-driven recommendations for faculty retention, advancement, and satisfaction. The goal is to develop systemic and institutional approaches that increase the representation, full participation, and advancement of women and minorities in academic STEM careers—thus contributing to a more diverse workforce, locally and nationally. Terry Blum acts as the co-leader of the Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Program. "Being a Diversity and Inclusion fellow is a great opportunity to work within a community of others who are working toward increasing diversity, equity, and inclusion at Georgia Tech. Fellows help shine a light on diversity gaps and commit to working toward closing them through their projects." - Terry Blum GT DEI Council As part of her role as ADVANCE Professor, Terry serves on the Scheller College Diversity and Inclusion Council, and serves as a resource to the Dean in planning and mobilizing our D&I strategies. The purpose of the Scheller College Diversity and Inclusion Council is to identify, raise awareness of, and work on diversity and inclusion issues of importance for our College. It is a cross-functional council consisting of students, staff, and faculty that acts in an advisory capacity to the Dean. It forms a collaborative network within the College, across Colleges, and with Institute Leadership. Each year, the Council develops an agenda for the year that supports the College’s Strategic Goal 4 (“Foster a diverse, inclusive, vibrant, and innovative community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni”), defines projects associated with those issues/goals, and makes progress towards their resolution/achievement over the academic year in a cross-functional manner. Work the Council does may help identity/analyze issues for the college administration and program offices to work on, help make progress on an existing administrative/program priority, or be an independent, complementary project that is not owned by anyone but is value-added. The Neurodiversity Hub As Excel's founding center ILSI is an advocate for inclusion for students with neurodiverse backgrounds at Georgia Tech. We are members of the Neurodiversity Hub, a global organization that focuses on changing the narrative about autism through awareness, education, and engagement. Serve-Learn-Sustain Teaching Resource List Our partners at SLS have curated an outstanding list of anti-racism teaching, learning, and acting resource guide. We encourage you to use their resources for your classroom and extracurricular programs. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures