Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2017-2018 This calendar includes an addendum listing religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy 1.9. For religious holidays not listed, contact the Office of the Chaplain. Graduate programs in the Cox School of Business, Perkins School of Theology and Dedman School of Law, and the Department of Dispute Resolution and Counseling within the Simmons School of Education and Human Development have different calendars. Dates that the offices of the University will be closed will be announced at a later date. Fall Term 2017 April 10–28, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for fall 2017 continuing students for all undergraduates and for graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. May, July, August (TBA): Academic Advising, Enrollment and Orientation conferences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. Conference dates to be announced. More information about AARO is available from New Student Programs, Student Life Office, 214-768-4560, www.smu.edu/newstudent. August 19, Saturday: Residence halls officially open at 9:00 a.m. August 20, Sunday: Opening Convocation, McFarlin Auditorium. August 21, Monday: First day of classes. August 25, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in December. September 1, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. September 4, Monday: Labor Day. University offices closed. September 6, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail, no credit or first-year repeated course grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. September 22-24, Friday-Sunday: Family Weekend. September 26, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for first-year undergraduate students. October 4, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before November enrollment. October 9-10, Monday–Tuesday: Fall Break. October 22, Sunday: Midterm grades due for first-year and sophomore students. October 30, Monday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. October 30–November 17, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2018 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. November 3, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). November 3-4, Friday-Saturday: Homecoming Weekend. November 9, Thursday: Last day for December graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. November 13, Monday: Students should file for May graduation. The last day to file is January 26, 2018. November 21, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University (grade of W). November 22, Wednesday: No classes. November 23–24, Thursday–Friday: Thanksgiving holiday. University offices closed. November 29–December 4, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. November 30, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for December graduate degree candidates. December 4, Monday: Last day of classes. December 5-6, Tuesday-Wednesday: Reading days. December 7-13, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations. (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). December 14, Thursday: Residence halls close at 10:00 a.m. for winter break. (December graduates should contact the Department of Residence Life and Student Housing). December 16, Saturday: December Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. December 25-January 1, Monday-Monday: University closed. December 25, Monday: Christmas Day. January Interterm 2018 Some areas of instruction offer selected courses during the January interterm, December 14 - January 18. January 1, Monday: New Year's Day. University offices closed. Dallas Jan Term 2018 January 8, Monday: First day of classes. January 9, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail. January 15, Monday: Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday. University offices closed. January 17, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 18, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral date. Jan Term at SMU-in-Taos 2018 January 5, Friday: Student travel/arrival. (PRW and KNW only) January 6, Saturday: First day of classes. (PRW and KNW only) January 7, Sunday: Student travel/arrival. (Regular Session) January 8, Monday: First day of classes. (Regular Session) January 9, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail. January 16, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W) January 17, Wednesday: Last day of class, including examinations. January 18, Thursday: Departure of students. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. Spring Term 2018 November 6–January 26, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2018 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. TBA - January: Residence halls officially open at 9:00a.m. January (TBA): Academic Advising, Enrollment and Orientation conferences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. Conference dates to be announced. More information about AARO is available from New Student Programs, Student Life Office, 214-768-4560, www.smu.edu/newstudent. January 1, Monday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. January 15, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 22, Monday: First day of classes. January 26, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in May. February 2, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. February 6, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail, no credit or first- year repeated course grading options. Also, last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. February 26, Monday: Early intervention grades due for first-year undergraduate students. March 6, Tuesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before April enrollment. March 12 -18, Monday-Sunday: Spring break March 27, Tuesday: Midterm grades due for first-year and sophomore students. April 4, Wednesday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. March 30, Friday: Good Friday. University offices closed. April 1, Sunday: Easter Sunday. April 10-27, Tuesday–Friday: Enrollment for summer 2018 and fall 2018 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. April 11, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. April 13, Friday: Last Day for May graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. April 16, Monday: Honors Convocation, 5:30 p.m. April 25, Wednesday: Students should file for August or December graduation. Last day to file for August graduation is June 7. Last day to file for December graduation is the last day to enroll for fall 2018. April 27, Friday: Last day to withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 2–7, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. May 3, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for graduate students who are May degree candidates. May 7, Monday: Last day of classes (follows a Friday schedule). May 8, Tuesday: Reading Day. May 9–15, Wednesday–Tuesday: Examinations (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). May 16, Wednesday: Residence halls officially close for non-graduating students. May 18, Friday: Baccalaureate. May 19, Saturday: Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 20, Sunday: Residence halls officially close for graduating seniors. May Interterm 2018 Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the May term, May 17– June 1. Each May term course may have unique start and end dates within the May 17–June 1 term to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas May Term 2018 Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 17, Thursday: First day of classes. May 18, Friday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail/no credit or first-year repeated course grading options. May 28, Monday: Memorial Day Holiday. University offices closed. May 29, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the university (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. June 1, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral date. May Term at SMU-in-Taos 2018 NOTE: The following dates are applicable only for SMU-in-Taos. Permission of SMU-in-Taos is required for all enrollments. May 16, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. May 17, Thursday: First Day of Classes. May 29, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. June 1, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June 2, Saturday: Departure of students. Summer Term 2018 The summer term consists of three primary sessions: first session, second session and a full summer session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. There are also shorter and longer sessions to accommodate the particular needs of the various instructional units such as SMU Abroad, SMU-in-Taos, and Perkins School of Theology. Full Summer Session Note: Classes will meet 2 hours and 15 minutes twice a week or 1 hour and 30 minutes three times a week. May 28, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 4, Monday: First day of classes. June 7, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without grade record. Last day to file for August graduation. June 13, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail, no credit or first-year repeated course grading options. July 4, Wednesday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 19, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 26, Thursday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. August 1, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 7, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. First Session Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday-Friday. May 28, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 4, Monday: First day of classes. June 5, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without grade record. June 7, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail, no credit or first-year repeated course grading options. Last day to file for August graduation. June 26, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. June 27, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. July 3, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Summer I Session at SMU-in-Taos NOTE: The following dates are applicable only for SMU-in-Taos. Permission of Taos is required for all enrollments. June 5, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 6, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 19, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). (Regular Session) Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. June 21, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. (Regular Session) June 22, Friday: Departure of students. (Regular Session) June 26, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). (Field Session) Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. June 29, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. (Field Session) June 30, Saturday: Departure of students. (Field Session) Second Session Classes meet two hours a day, Monday-Friday. June 7, Thursday: Last day to file for August graduation. July 4, Wednesday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 5, Thursday: First day of classes. July 6, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop without grade record. July 10, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail, no credit or first-year repeated course grading options. July 16, Monday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 26, Thursday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. July 30, Monday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 3, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August 7, Tuesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August Term at SMU-in-Taos 2018 Note: The following dates are applicable only for SMU-in-Taos. Permission of SMU-in-Taos is required for all enrollments. August 3, Friday: Student travel day/arrival. (PRW only) August 4, Saturday: First day of classes. (PRW only) August 5, Sunday: Regular Session travel/arrival. August 6, Monday: First day of classes. (Regular Session) August 16, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). Last day for undergraduate students to declare Grade Replacement Repeat grading option. August 17, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August 18, Saturday: Departure of students. Major Religious Holidays August 2017-August 2018 Listing of religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy 1.9. For religious holidays not listed, the instructor or supervisor may contact the Office of the Chaplain. Christian Christmas December 25, 2017 Good Friday March 30, 2018 Easter Sunday April 1, 2018 Easter Sunday (Orthodox) April 8, 2018 Hindu Janmashtami August 15, 2017 Dasera September 30, 2017 Diwali October 19, 2017 Jewish* Rosh Hashanah September 21-22, 2017 Yom Kippur September 30, 2017 Sukkot/Simchat Torah October 5/6, 2017 & October 13, 2017 Hanukkah December 12-20, 2017 Purim March 1, 2018 Pesach (Passover) March 31-April 7, 2018 Shavuot May 20-21, 2018 Muslim Eid al Adha September 1, 2017 Islamic New Year September 21, 2017 Ashura October 1, 2017 Mawlid an Nabi December 1, 2017 Ramadan May 16 - June 14, 2018 Eid al Fitr June 15, 2018 *All holidays begin at sundown before the first day noted and conclude at sundown on the day(s) noted Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2016-2017 Academic Year 2015-2016 Academic Year 2014-2015 Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share