Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Pro Texana Medal of Service Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Features>Impacting Our World>Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Susan Peters is founder and executive director of Unbound Now, a multinational anti-human trafficking organization headquartered in Waco. She admits that human trafficking was not on her radar after graduation. It was not until traveling abroad that she felt called to service in this area. “We went to different countries and started seeing human trafficking in every country,” Peters says. “I was so burdened over time that I felt like I had to do something about it. That’s when everything changed, and we started Unbound Now.” Although initially expecting to do more international anti-human trafficking work, Peters quickly learned human trafficking is close to home. She worked with a detective who gauged human trafficking interest in the community by placing an online advertisement for a minor to be sold. More than 100 people responded within 12 hours. One of the first victims Peters met was a 14-year-old American who was being held with other girls in local apartments. “They didn’t think anyone cared what was happening to them,” Peters says. “We cared, but we didn’t know. That made us realize we had to focus on what was happening in our communities with American kids who are being trafficked and then build a model where we can expand from there and do international work.” Peters founded the Heart of Texas Human Trafficking Coalition — the local genesis of Unbound Now — along with other community leaders in 2014. The coalition identifies, serves, defends and restores human trafficking survivors with assistance from multiple law enforcement agencies, attorneys, advocates, social services providers, medical professionals, educators and community leaders. “Our advocates run into the pain every day,” Peters says. “They’re doing the work of walking alongside a victim, providing safety, clothing, food, getting medical care and securing housing. The day-in, day-out walking with survivors and helping them get their lives back is the most fruitful work we do.” Celebrating its 10th anniversary in 2022, Unbound Now has offices in Cambodia, Indonesia, Mongolia and South Africa along with Texas offices in North Texas, Waco, Austin, Houston and Bryan-College Station. “It’s been amazing to see God bring highly skilled, passionate people to join our efforts,” Peters says. “We have a lot of Baylor graduates on our teams, and there is a lot of support within the Baylor community that has helped us be where we are.” Unbound Now has served hundreds of survivors who range in age from 6 to 60. “Human trafficking can happen anywhere,” Peters says. “One study of trafficked youth found half were exploited before age 14, and 75 percent were trafficked for two or more years before being identified as victims. It’s about having our eyes open because it happens more than we realize.” In 2020, Peters authored Unbound: Working Together to Restore Lives and End Human Trafficking [Clear Day Publishing], in which she recounts stories of the honest, haunting realities of the fight against human trafficking. She hopes these stories will inspire more people to action in this important fight. 2022 Alumni Award Recipients Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alumna of the Year Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Young Alumnus of the Year Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Pro Texana Medal of Service Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Contributions to the Professions Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Contributions to the Professions Fran George, A.B.C. '16 Merrie Beckham Alumna By Choice of the Year Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues