Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close Business and Industry From small businesses to Fortune 500 companies, student start-ups to well-established companies, Penn State provides a variety of opportunities for businesses and industries to partner with the University to solve unique challenges, develop new products, recruit top talent, and make a lasting impact. Coronavirus Resources As businesses and industries continue to face challenges and adjust during this global pandemic, Penn State's Corporate Engagement Center offers support and access to innovative solutions to address specific challenges, now and in the future. Our team is here to provide a starting point to connect you to groundbreaking University research, talented Penn State students, and ways to develop your current workforce. Corporate Engagement Center’s COVID-19 resources Virtual recruiting opportunities for employers Opportunities to support Penn State’s COVID-19 response How to support virtual student engagement experiences Current COVID-19 research projects  Research and Innovation Solve complex, technical problems, utilize world-class facilities, connect with one of our 5,000 research faculty members, and take advantage of the results of our $1.01 billion annual research expenditure. A research partnership with Penn State can help your business achieve more. Corporate Engagement Center Penn State Research Office of Industrial Partnerships Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Recruit Talent Recognized as a trusted partner by corporate recruiters, Penn State manages one of the largest recruitment programs in the country. With nearly 100,000 undergraduate and graduate students University-wide, employers can build a robust engagement plan to meet and exceed recruitment goals. Corporate Engagement Center Recruiting at Penn State University Career Services License Technologies In fiscal year 2018–19, Penn State researchers conducted $968 million in research, disclosed 154 new inventions, received 38 patents, and executed 23 technology licenses. These research discoveries, patents, and technologies may solve business challenges, enhance products, or provide a business with a competitive edge. The Invent Penn State Venture and IP Conference provides additional access to Penn State emerging technologies and startups. Office of Technology Management Emerging Technologies for Licensing IP Navigator Invent Penn State Venture and IP Conference Executive and Continuing Education The Penn State Smeal College of Business and Penn State World Campus offer a variety of programs to help your organization stay competitive by developing leaders to drive change. Online and in-person opportunities, for individuals and groups, are available and taught by nationally recognized faculty. Corporate Engagement Center Penn State World Campus Outreach Penn State Executive Programs Education Alliance Entrepreneurship Penn State's burgeoning entrepreneurial ecosystem was developed to help drive economic development. This network consists of a blend of entrepreneurship-focused academic programs, business startup training, funding for commercialization, and university-industry collaborations. With an innovation hub located in every undergraduate campus community, opportunities to tap into this ecosystem are available throughout Pennsylvania and beyond. Corporate Innovation and Entrepreneurship Major Invent Penn State Farrell Center for Corporate Innovation and Entrepreneurship Fund for Innovation Invent Penn State Venture and IP Conference Startup Navigator Entrepreneurship and Innovation Minor Innovation Hubs Philanthropy Corporate philanthropy supports programs, scholarships, research endeavors, and faculty development. Penn State is committed to partnering with businesses, like yours, to find the best and most appropriate opportunity to make a lasting impression on the University through philanthropy. Corporate Relations Foundation Relations Innovation Park Innovation Park at Penn State is a unique campus environment where business, education, and research come together. A vibrant community of 118 acres with more than 1,000,000 square feet of office, manufacturing, and research space provide tenants with access to Penn State’s scientific, engineering, technology, and business resources. Innovation Park is home to eighty-three companies, including twenty-five startups, a 2,050-person workforce, and the Penn Stater Conference Center Hotel—a 300-room hotel with world-class conference facilities. Just a few miles from the University Park Airport and directly off of Interstate-99, the Park is easily accessible for travelers. Innovation Park Business and Industry News Penn State Latest News RSS Feed More News Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022