Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Health Services Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Search Health & Wellness Health Services Parents and Families Parents and Families Parents and families can play a critical role in helping a student access health care as they are often the first person students will call when they have a health problem or concern. Although we cannot share medical information without a student's consent, you can provide critical guidance and support. Call if you have questions or concerns about your student's medical needs and we will work with you to assure their health and success. Eligibility for Care Urgent Care & Apptmts Confidentiality Questions or Concerns Eligibility for Care All full time students are charged a Health Fee and can use our services. This is a separate fee from health insurance. Urgent Care & Apptmts Emergency medical services are available 24/7 and can be reached by calling 401-863-4111. If it is unsure if EMS is needed, call 401-863-3953 for nursing advice. Our services page details a variety of appointments and other services available and how to access them. When we are closed, there is always a nurse available for advice. Confidentiality College is a time of transition when students learn to do more independently, including accessing and using health care. Students who are 18 or over, and students younger than 18 but away at college, are considered adults, therefore their medical records are confidential. We recognize parents can help provide guidance and support and just because records are confidential does not mean we do not want to talk with you. With your students consent we are happy to talk with you about a given visit. Health Services complies with state and federal laws protecting the health information of students and students are in charge of how their medical information is disclosed. If your student gives us permission, we are glad to talk with you about their health concerns. We do not accept "blanket releases" or "global waivers", and each specific instance of care requires separate permission from a student to speak with a parent or family member. Please note that for serious life threatening situations, or if your student is unconscious and unable to make a decision, we are able to discuss confidential health information with you to ensure the safety of your student. Release of Health Information Questions or Concerns If you have questions regarding charges, you can contact the specific department or Assistant Director Christine Farland at 401-863-1093. If you have a concern, call 401-863-3953 to be directed to the appropriate staff member or email the Associate Director of Health Services, Kristie Sullivan. COVID-19 Information Brown Health Services is in regular contact with the Rhode Island Department of Health and following all of their guidelines and recommendations for COVID-19 response. Learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Parents and Families Open details for Parents and Families Bookmark this Page