Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Admission Undergraduate Admissions Homepage | Admission Undergraduate Admission UCLA welcomes applications from students throughout California, across the nation and around the world. We value a variety of experiences and backgrounds, and we believe that diversity of people and their ideas strengthen everything we do. Our admission process is holistic and individualized. We thoroughly review every application, looking for students who challenge themselves academically, engage in extracurricular activities and demonstrate a willingness to contribute in the community. Our top-ranked academic programs, supportive environment and location in the global city of Los Angeles are just a few of the reasons why UCLA is the most applied-to university in the nation. Continue to Admission Website Application Deadlines Each year, more academically talented applicants apply to UCLA than to any other university in the country. Our application process opens to entering freshmen and junior-level transfer students on August 1. Interested in applying? Get connected with us and we’ll keep you informed about application deadlines and more. Application Deadlines and Tasks UCLA Admissions Deadline Date Task August 1 Application opens for freshmen and transfer applicants for fall October 1 – November 30 Fall admission application filing period for freshmen and transfer applicants March 2 Deadline for financial aid application, GPA Verification May 1 Deadline for admitted freshmen to submit Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) June 1 Deadline for admitted transfer students to submit Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) A Surprisingly Affordable Education Financial aid comes in many forms. We take pride in providing opportunity, regardless of socioeconomic background. UCLA is consistently numbered among the most economically diverse, top-ranked schools. More than one-third of undergraduates receive Pell Grants. And nearly one-third of undergraduates are the first generation in their families to graduate from a four-year university. Tuition & Cost Financial Aid #1 Economic Diversity Among Top 25 U.S. News & World Report (2020) #4 Best Value College Forbes Magazine (2021) Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept