Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Faculty Openings Expect Excellence Clemson University’s College of Science is pursuing excellence in scientific discovery, learning, and engagement that is both locally relevant and globally impactful. The college is improving workplace quality of life through a leadership culture based on integrity, curiosity, and respect that values diversity and challenges the status quo. Join us as we prepare the next generation of scientists. A Vibrant Place to Work and Live Clemson is nestled in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains on the shores of Lake Hartwell, a large manmade lake with great fishing, swimming and boating. Clemson enjoys a moderate climate year-round with average temperatures in January of 30–50 degrees Fahrenheit and in August of 69–90 degrees Fahrenheit. Greenville, located approximately 30 minutes from Clemson, offers a thriving entertainment, dining and cultural scene and is home to the Greenville Drive, a minor-league baseball team affiliated with the Boston Red Sox. Atlanta, Georgia, and Charlotte, North Carolina, are within a two-hour drive from Clemson. Outdoor lovers can be in the mountains in an hour, or enjoy hiking, fishing, camping and more at one of several state parks within a 45-minute drive of Clemson. To find out more about current faculty openings, please visit a school, department or center jobs page: Department of Biological Sciences Department of Chemistry Department of Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Department of Physics and Astronomy Clemson Center for Human Genetics Other Opportunites Interested in SCIENCE but can’t find a current opening that fits? SCIENCE will be listing future opportunities for both junior and senior faculty. We also have a Pathways program that transitions selected postdoctoral researchers into faculty positions within two years. If you are interested in being contacted about these opportunities as they arise, please submit a PDF that includes your CV and a cover letter describing your interests. I AM INTERESTED General Inquiries College of Science 118 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ science@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-3015 About Home Alumni Contact Us Dean Faculty Excellence Faculty Openings Faculty/Staff Resources Leadership Team ScienceForward Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us