Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Global Emergency Medicine Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship Welcome to Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship at Brown! Sponsored by Brown Emergency Medicine and affiliated with the Brown University Alpert Medical School as well as Brown School of Public Health. The two-year academic fellowship boasts a wealth of research mentoring opportunities, robust interdepartmental collaboration, and a rich clinical and teaching experience, both domestically and abroad. Brown Universities Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship Continuing, Adapting and Growing during the COVID-19 pandemic. Brown Universities Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship will continue to accept applications for the coming 2021 academic year. Although the approach to training in global emergency medicine has been reshaped by the COVID-19 pandemic our fellowship is growing and adapting as we continue to train highly skilled global health physicians and collaborate with partners from around the world to advance scientific knowledge and enhance care delivery. For example, in collaboration with humanitarian organization Project Hope, our fellows have assisted with the creation and implementation of COVID-19 preparedness and response training program that has scaled up healthcare workforces in over 10 countries with more than 4000 front-line practitioners trained (Link here: Project Hope [projecthope.org]). If you have considered a career as a global health practitioner, consider the dynamic fellowship opportunities that are available through Brown Universities Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship. COVID-19 and Global Emergency Medicine As the landscape of global health has changed during 2020, the the division of Global Emergency Medicine has adapted to actively engage in COVID-19 response both within and outside of the United States. Our division faculty and fellows have help lead response activities in our health system in Rhode Island developing field hospitals and policy approaches and executed key research to advance the understanding fo how best to respond to COIVD-19. Globally our division has partnered with humanitarian organizations to develop and deliver training to response personnel in over 20 countries from around the world, resulting in training of over 20,000 frontline providers. Read more here : https://watson.brown.edu/news/explore/2020/projecthopeCHRHS. Fellows 2021 Meet Our Fellows Andy Beck, MD Dr. Beck is a joint fellow between the Divisions of Medical Education and Global Emergency Medicine. He completed medical school at Case Western Reserve University, followed by residency at Brown University. His specific interest is in medical education in the global setting, and he has worked in teaching emergency medicine in Africa and South America. He has thousands of hours of direct teaching experience in one-on-one, classroom, and bedside settings, and is currently working on using medical education to facilitate clinical operational improvement. Meagan Barry, MD, PhD Dr. Barry is a fellow in Global Emergency Medicine. She graduated from the Medical Scientist Training Program at Baylor College of Medicine with a PhD in Translational Biology and Molecular Medicine. Her thesis project was to develop a vaccine for Chagas disease using a mouse model of disease. During her training, she completed a Diploma in Tropical Medicine from Baylor College of Medicine and received the Certificate of Knowledge in Clinical Tropical Medicine and Travelers' Health (CTropMed) from the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. She completed her residency in Emergency Medicine at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University as a Brown Residency International/Global Health Training (BRIGHT) scholar and with a Distinction in Research. Her fellowship work investigates the impact of maternal schistosomiasis and hookworm infection on the maternal and infant microbiomes and on resulting infant health outcomes. Ramu Kharel, MD, MPH Dr. Ramu Kharel is a Global Emergency Medicine Fellow in the Department of Emergency Medicine at Brown University. He completed his emergency medicine from Emory University. He went to medical school at UT Southwestern and received his MPH from Harvard University. Dr. Kharel has a focus in health system strengthening and emergency system strengthening in rural settings. His public health focus has been on advancing public education for hand washing. Dr. Kharel also has an interest in disaster response, and has helped rebuild healthcenters after the Nepal earthquake through a NGO he founded. His current research focus is on strengthening emergency care systems. He currently practices emergency medicine in Providence, Rhode Island. Austin Lee, MD, MPH Dr. J. Austin Lee is a fellow in Global Emergency Medicine at Brown University and he is an attending physician in emergency medicine at Miriam Hospital in Rhode Island. He obtained his MPH with a focus in global health from George Washington University and spent several years working on a variety of projects at the Sabin Vaccine Institute focused on neglected tropical infections and typhoid. Dr. Lee attended medical school at Indiana University, and was chief resident in emergency medicine at the University of Virginia. Dr. Lee is primarily interested in growing and strengthening the speciality of emergency medicine in developing contexts. He has worked in both public health and clinical medicine in a number of different regions around the world. We are now accepting applications for the 2021-2022 program: ***To apply please send us your CV and three letters of recommendation and your letter of intent, by email to [email protected]. EM Fellowship Application Form V2021.pdf Wendy Wesley - GEM Fellowship Coordinator [email protected] | [email protected] Naz Karim MD, MHA, MPH Director | Global Emergency Medicine Fellowship [email protected] | [email protected] Adam R. Aluisio, MD, MSc, DTM&H Associate Fellowship Director | Division of Global Emergency Medicine [email protected] | [email protected] Please note that although application materials should be sent directly via email, to the recipients listed above, applicants must also register with the National Residency Match Program (NRMP [nrmp.org]) as Global Emergency Medicine fellowship positions will be matched through NRMP process. https://www.nrmp.org/fellowships/emergency-medicine-match/ http://www.iemfellowships.com/ Related Files EM Fellowship Application Form V2021.pdf About Resident Elective Fellowship Global Experience Training and Mentoring Clinical Experience Application Process Highlights from our Division Students Research Global Sites Resources Faculty Print this Page Share this Page Get Connected Follow the Division of Global Emergency Medicine on Twitter. Division of Global Emergency Medicine Brown University 55 Claverick Street Suite 100 Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-9891 Fax (401) 444-4307 Department of Emergency Medicine Brown University 55 Claverick Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-5826 Calendar Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Jun 13 8:30am Data Science and Social Justice: Networks, Policy, and Education Jun 22 5:30pm - 7:00pm How to Make Friends and Influence People (via academic proposals that are actually accepted for presentation!) View full calendar > The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift