Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson Home page HR Home Coronavirus COVID-19 Resources for Staff and Faculty This webpage connects employees with tools and resources related to COVID-19. Additional information is available on the University’s Healthy Clemson: United as Tigers site. Sick or Exposed? Follow instructions on the COVID-19 Medical Guidance if you are sick, experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, if you have tested positive for COVID-19, if you think you may have been exposed to COVID-19 or if you have been exposed to someone who was exposed to COVID-19. Employee Support Clemson’s Employee Assistance Program is a resource for all employees and their families, including spouses, dependents, and other household members. The Employee Wellness Series provides employees with helpful information and skill building opportunities focused on a variety of mental health topics. The Caregivers Support Task Force maintains a list of area caregiving services accessible for anyone with Clemson University credentials. Accessing the document requires readers to use DUO two-factor authentication. Testing Information Refer to the University’s COVID-19 Testing Information page for information regarding testing locations and protocols. Additional Resources Building Security Coordinators COVID-19 Vaccine Information and Voluntary Vaccine Record Upload Tool Kronos Time and Leave Information Supervisor Guidance - COVID Positive/Exposed Employee (PDF) Employee Leave FAQ Does the Family and Medical Leave Act apply to COVID-19? Yes. If an employee or a qualifying family member contracts COVID-19, it may constitute a “serious health condition” under the FMLA and a resulting leave of absence may be FMLA qualifying if the employee meets the other requirements to be covered by the FMLA. However, the FMLA generally does not cover staying home to avoid becoming sick. The provisions of the FMLA do not, however, apply to leave taken because a child’s school or place of care is closed, or the child care provider is unavailable. Can an employee who is on leave related to COVID-19 be advanced sick leave? Yes. The University can advance up to 15 workdays of additional sick leave to leave-eligible employees in extenuating circumstances, which includes contracting COVID-19 or being quarantined as a result of potential COVID-19 exposure. Can an employee directed to quarantine by a health professional or based on University protocols use sick leave? Yes. If a health professional recommends quarantine for an employee who accrues leave, or the employee is required to quarantine based on University protocol, the employee can use accrued sick leave. Are employees required to use leave to receive vaccinations? Employees are encouraged to be vaccinated during lunch breaks, outside of work hours or onsite, if available. If an employee is unable to receive the vaccine during non-work hours or to make up the work time missed to receive the vaccine, the employee will be required to use sick leave, annual leave or compensatory time for their time away from work. Contact HR Clemson University Office of Human Resources 108 Perimeter Rd, Clemson, SC 29634 Phone: 864.656.2000 Fax: 864.656.4672 Ask-HR CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top