Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Asian Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Asian Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Asian Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Asian Studies Gain comprehensive knowledge of a chosen culture or geographic area in Asia with the Bachelor of Arts in Asian Studies in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. In this undergraduate program, you'll study Chinese, Japanese or Korean, and you'll take courses focusing on several disciplines, including anthropology, history, language, literature and religion. The Asian Studies Major prepares you for careers requiring linguistic proficiency and cultural knowledge in an array of global fields, such as business, education, government and media. Classes & Curriculum The 123-credit Asian Studies Major can be completed over four years of full-time study. Depending on your focus, courses offered in this program may include the following. China: State and Society Contemporary Chinese Urban Film and Fiction in Translation Introduction to Buddhism Introduction to East Asia: China Introduction to East Asia: Japan Introduction to Southeast Asia: Mainland Mystery and Crime Fiction in Japan Students in their final must satisfy a capstone writing requirement in the Seminar in Asian Studies. Learn more about required courses for the Asian Studies BA. Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Barbara Thornbury is chair of the Department of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies. Phone: 215-204-4494 Email: bthor@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact If you have questions regarding the Asian Studies Major, contact the following staff member. Michelle Pugliese is an administrator in the Department of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: pugliese@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies Department. Louis Mangione is chair of the Department of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies. Email: mangione@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in study abroad programs in Korea and Tokyo, Japan, as well as exchange programs in China and Taiwan. Improve your knowledge around the culture and society of your host country, and boost your oral, listening, reading and writing skills in your target language. Learn more about study abroad opportunities. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ASST-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Asian Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info