Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate Admissions Future Students Readmission International School of Law Undergraduate Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Future Students Getting Started Visit CampusGraduate SchoolAcademic Programs Apply for Admission Admission Requirements Admission Procedures Application Checklist Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect AcknowledgementApplication ReviewAdmission Decision After Acceptance Graduate School RequirementsRegistrationID CardParkingFee Payment Take Action Apply Now! Graduate School Degree Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Graduate Admissions Future Students Apply for Graduate Admission Apply for Graduate Admissions Thank you for choosing the University of Memphis to pursue your graduate degree! For more information about the Graduate School's additional offerings in response to COVID-19, such as GRE/GMAT waivers, please visit the Graduate School's COVID-19 Response Page > Select the option below that best suits you. If you have any questions on the application process, contact us directly. Apply to Grad School Start or complete your application How to Apply > Re-enroll in Grad School For those absent for more than one full semester. How to Re-enroll > Change Your Major Already accepted to grad school but want to change programs? Change Major > Change Start Date Already accepted but need to push your starting semester? Delay Start > Apply to Graduate School If you are interested in starting a new graduate program at the UofM, please select the application that corresponds with your program of interest and desired start date: Applicants to School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - Apply for Fall 2022 > To apply to our Joint Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering with the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC). Visit our Application Portal > All Other College/School Applicants - Apply for Summer/Fall 2022 or Spring 2023 > Re-enroll in a Graduate Program If you were previously enrolled in a graduate program at the UofM and would like to resume your studies in the same program, choose an option below: College of Education Students - Re-enroll by emailing your department advisor - View Contact Listing > All Other College/School Students - Re-enroll for Summer/Fall 2022 or Spring 2023> Change Your Major If you have been previously enrolled but would like to change to a new major please check with the academic department you wish to join before completing the form linked below. They may wish for you to log back into your electronic application and submit an updated application to their program. College of Education Students - Re-enroll by emailing your department advisor - View Contact Listing > All Other Majors - Change your major for Summer/Fall 2022 or Spring 2023 > Change Your Starting Semester If you have been accepted for a particular semester but you want to change your starting semester: College of Education Students - Change date by emailing your department advisor - View Contact Listing > All Other Students - Complete Change of Semester Form > Need Help? Your chosen major's academic department (check the web directory) can help you to: Obtain more information about admission requirements, test score requirements, application deadlines, etc. Answer questions related to the content of your application. For application navigation questions, or if you are having technical difficulty, please contact Graduate Admissions Customer Service at 617.612.2943 (8am - 4pm, Monday - Friday) or email: uofmgradunicas@liaisoncas.com. Helpful information can also be found on our FAQ site. The status of your application can be found within your application. After logging in, click on the "Check Status" link on the upper right corner of your electronic application. For all other inquiries, please contact the Graduate School. Important Notes The Graduate School at the University of Memphis does not waive application fees; however, you are more than welcome to request this from the program you are applying to. Our programs can cover the cost of the application fee if they want to. You may want to send them your information about your qualifications so they can make that decision. You can find the best contact to reach out to by accessing our graduate degree program directory. If you have submitted and paid for a graduate application at any time in the past, you do not need to pay for another. You can receive an application fee coupon code by emailing gradcoupon@memphis.edu. No financial aid is available for the Non-Degree program. If you are interested in the Intensive English for Internationals, please review the IEI program application page. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.