Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About Seton Hall University At a Glance Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Menu At a Glance Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Seton Hall University Campus Life While Seton Hall enjoys a big reputation, our campus community is also close-knit and inclusive. Students, faculty and staff come from around the world, bringing with them a kaleidoscope of experiences and perspectives, creating a diverse yet unified campus environment. Student Services Your experiences at Seton Hall extend way beyond the classroom. From Housing and Residence Life, to The Career Center, Health Services, Public Safety and Security and Counseling and Psychological Services - The Division of Student Services helps you successfully navigate all aspects of your college career. Find the people and resources you need to make the most of your Seton Hall experience. Visit the Student Services homepage Campus Ministry There are a number of pastoral support services on campus, many of which are offered through our Campus Ministry office. Campus Ministry staff help guide the Christian conscience, educate for peace and justice, and develop future leaders through many educational, worship, prayer, and social awareness activities. Visit the Campus Ministry homepage Athletics and Recreation Athletics is a big part of life at Seton Hall, with 14 men's and women's varsity athletic teams competing in the BIG EAST, one of the most thrilling conferences in the country. In addition to varsity athletics, you can join a club sport or gather a team to participate in one of seven different intramural sports. Into working out? Seton Hall's Richie Regan Recreation & Athletics Center offers you over 12,000 square feet of exercise options, including cardio, free and circuit weight training and swimming. Visit the Athletics homepage Student Organizations As a student, you're always learning - whether you're joining a Greek organization, spinning discs at our award-winning radio station, WSOU, writing for the student newspaper, The Setonian, playing for the championship winning Esports team, or serving as a member of our Student Government Association. From student media to sports to professional societies to religious organizations, our 100-plus clubs and organizations run the gamut. Visit the Student Organizations homepage Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top