Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Repay your Loans Repay Your Federal Perkins or Brown University Institutional Loans Loan Office Repay Your Federal Perkins or Brown University Institutional Loans Federal Perkins & Institutional Loans Federal Perkins & Institutional Loans are repaid to the Brown University Loan Office. Our office will send you information about your loans by mail and/or email - Be sure to open and read it! It is your responsibility to notify our office directly any time your phone number, email address, or mailing address information changes. The Loan Office is the loan servicer for Perkins Loans and Brown University Institutional Loans and is responsible for billing, collection and management of loan repayment, and deferment/forbearance processing. The Loan Office will contact you to provide important information about your repayment terms. It is your responsibility to notify the Loan Office directly if your mailing address and contact information changes. We partner with ECSI to provide online account access. Through ECSI’s website, you will be able to view your loan account(s), access your monthly statement, and make payments online. Learn more about accessing your loan account online and our vendor/partner Heartland ECSI: See the FAQ below. Repayment Plan Federal Perkins Loans and Brown University Institutional Loans offer only one type of repayment plan. The loans are repaid to the Brown University Loan Office (servicer) in equal monthly installments over a maximum 10 year repayment term. Online Account Access How do I log into ECSI? Visit https://heartland.ecsi.net to create a profile and connect an account. View our Cheat Sheet to Create a Profile and Connect an Account. You'll need either your: ECSI KEY or ECSI PIN, Brown's School Code: E7, your SSN (US Citizens) or your Loan ID number (International) Billing Statements Will I receive a billing statement? Paper statements are generated mid-month and mailed to the address we have on file. It is important to keep update your address, email, and phone number any time your contact information changes. You may update your contact information through your online account or by contacting the Loan Office. Do I have the option to receive the billing statement electronically? Yes; it’s quick and easy to manage your loans with eBill & automatic ACH payments! Enroll through your online loan account at https://heartland.ecsi.net The monthly statement email will contain a link to your electronic bill, it will not contain any information specific to you or your financial information. If you use a Spam Filter, please make sure to set your filter to allow mail from [email protected] and [email protected] to get through your filter. Payment Information When is my loan payment due? Payments are due on the 1st of every month. If you are paying by ACH, you have the option to schedule your deduction on the 1st, 10th, 15th or 20th of the month. If you are scheduling an ACH payment to occur on the 15th or 20th of the month, this would be considered the next month’s payment. Where do I mail my loan payment? All checks should be made payable to Brown University and mailed to: Brown University, Cashier’s Office, Box 1911, Providence, RI 02912. Be sure to include your loan account number in the memo section of your check. What are my other payment options? ECSI offers you the ability to make online payments in several different methods: (Note: All payments made through the following online options are processed no later than the following business day Monday through Friday.) Instant e-Check: Make an online payment the same day using your checking or savings account. There is a fee of $1.95 associated with this payment method. If you wish to schedule a payment for a future date, or avoid the processing fee, please select one of the other payment options. Direct Payment: Schedule a future payment using your checking or savings account. The payment may be scheduled to occur on the 1st, 10th, 15th, or 20th of the month. You may use this option to make a one-time payment or to schedule monthly recurring payments. If you are repaying more than one loan, this option allows you to designate a specific payment amount to each loan. Convert to Permanent ACH: Schedule monthly recurring payments that will remain in effect until your loan is paid in full. Paper billing statements will no longer be sent once you convert to permanent ACH. Credit Card: This option allows you to pay by MasterCard, Discover, or American Express. There is a convenience fee associated with this payment method. The amount of the fee will be disclosed to you prior to completing your payment transaction. International Wire Transfer - ECSI has partnered with PeerTransfer to offer a streamlined and cost saving way to make international payments. PeerTransfer offers favorable foreign exchange rates, the ability to pay in your home currency (in most cases) and savings compared to traditional banks. In addition, you will be able to track your payment via peerTransfer's dashboard and receive notification when your payment is received by Brown University. If you need further assistance with the payment options, contact the Loan Office at 401-863-3296. How do I pay my loans during deferment or forbearance? On the Direct Payment Page under Temporary Recurring Payments, you will need to check the box that states “Check this box if you want your monthly payments to continue during periods of grace, deferment or forbearance”. If not checked, payment will cease during this period. The Brown University Loan Office recommends paying the monthly interest during a forbearance period. If monthly interest is not paid during the forbearance period, all unpaid interest will be due, along with the first full monthly payment, at the end of the forbearance period. How do I update my contact information? The Update My Information page allows you to update your demographic information including address, telephone number and email address. Select Account Tools, then Personal Information Update. It can take up to one business day for a demographic change to be registered in the system. Do not be alarmed if your information on the web site is not updated immediately. How do I change my banking information? You must provide the following information about the financial institution: Name and Address of the Financial Institution ABA Transit Number: This is always printed at the bottom of the check. Account Number: There is no standard for the size of the number but it is always printed next to the ABA Transit Number at the bottom of the check. Account Type: You must designate if this is a saving’s or checking account. Specifying the incorrect account type can cause a payment to be rejected or drawn from the wrong account. Update Outstanding: If this box is checked, any outstanding Direct Payment transactions will be changed to use this new banking information. "Outstanding" means any Direct Payment transaction on file but not yet submitted to your bank for payment. By default, this box is checked. If you desire any outstanding transaction be paid by the old bank but future payments to be taken from the new bank, then you should remove the check from this box. Tax Forms When do I receive the 1098E Tax form? ECSI will issue 1098E forms to borrowers in January who have paid $600.00 or more in interest during the previous year. Notification of interest paid is also available in the January and February billing statements. Having Trouble Making Payments? What should I do if I have trouble repaying my loan? If you experience financial difficulties or have trouble making your loan payment, don't be afraid to ask for help. Contact our Loan Office right away and let our Loan Counselors help you avoid default. We'll help you understand the options and find a repayment solution that works for you! What are the consequences of default? The credit bureaus are notified of your loan status every month. If you default, the negative information will be reported and will remain on your credit report for seven years after the loan is paid in full. This negative credit information will have severe consequences on your ability to obtain a credit card, or financing for a home or car. In addition, In addition, the following actions may be taken: Transcripts are on hold and will not be released until the debt is paid. You lose eligibility for additional Federal Aid. Your loans may be assigned to a third party Collection Agency and collection costs will be added to the loan balance. This will significantly increase your costs! The entire loan balance is payable in full and you are not eligible for deferments, forbearance or any repayment arrangements. Your wages and tax refunds may be garnished and applied to your defaulted loan. Your account may be assigned to the Department of Education. It will take years to reestablish your credit and recover from default. What if I default on my Federal Perkins Loan? Can the default be removed? You may contact the Loan Office and request to rehabilitate your Federal Perkins Loan. In order to complete Rehabilitation, you must sign an agreement with the Loan Office and make nine on-time monthly payments. The monthly payment amount will be calculated by the Loan Office and will be indicated on your Rehabilitation Agreement. NOTE: You may only complete Rehabilitation one time. The benefits of completing loan rehabilitation are: Your loan is brought current and is no longer in default. The negative credit history is removed from your credit report. Holds are released on transcripts. Eligibility to apply for deferment or forbearance is re-instated How do I apply for a deferment or forbearance and what is the difference between them? Deferment allows you to temporarily postpone payments when you meet specific eligibility criteria. Common types of deferment include in-school, unemployment, economic hardship, or residency. Interest does not accrue during deferment. Forbearance allows you to temporarily reduce your monthly payment to interest-only payments. Interest continues to accrue and must be paid each month. There is a maximum of 36 months forbearance available. Learn more about Deferment and Forbearance. What is the difference between Unemployment Deferment and Economic Hardship Deferment? If you are currently unemployed or under employed (working less than 30 hours a week) and are actively seeking employment and/or you are receiving unemployment benefits, you would be eligible for an Unemployment Deferment(for Perkins loans only). There is a total of 36 months available during the term of your loan. If you are working 30 hours or more and are experiencing financial hardship, you may be eligible for an Economic Hardship Deferment (for Perkins loans only). There is a total of 36 months available during the term of your loan. The Loan Office requires documentation to process this request. Home About Before You Borrow Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans Grace Period Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Repay Your Federal Perkins and Brown University Institutional Loans Understanding Interest Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Tax Information Medical School Loan Borrowers 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical