Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events CESH | Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Home About People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Our Areas of Expertise Evidence Based Practice Center Jobs Research Education + Training Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Our Areas of Expertise Evidence Based Practice Center Jobs Employment for non-US citizens Research Collaborations Full Catalog of Research Education + Training Resources Software Technical Reports Code + Data Repository Consultation News Faculty To search Brown's comprehensive faculty directory by research area, please visit vivo.brown.edu. Thomas Trikalinos Director, Professor [email protected] Tom works on novel methodologies for comparative effectiveness research, with emphasis on the steps of evidence synthesis (by means of systematic review and meta-analysis), and evidence contextualization (by means of decision and economic analysis). Tom and his colleagues strive to modernize and optimize the processes of evidence-based medicine by porting methodologies from computer science... Read Full Profile Ethan Balk Associate Professor, Research [email protected] Ethan Balk, MD MPH, is Associate Professor (Research) in the Brown University School of Public Health. For about 15 years, his research has focused on systematic review, evidence based medicine, meta-analysis, study quality assessment, and evaluation of literature. He has led numerous comparative effectiveness reviews, evidence reports, technologies, and other systematic reviews for the Agency... Read Full Profile Alyssa Bilinski Assistant Professor, Health Services Policy & Practice [email protected] Dr. Alyssa Bilinski is the Peterson Assistant Professor of Health Policy in the Departments of Health Services, Policy & Practice and Biostatistics. Her research focuses on developing novel methods for policy evaluation and applying these to identify interventions that most efficiently improve population health and well-being. Dr. Bilinski's methodological interests include advancing... Read Full Profile Kristin Konnyu Assistant Professor [email protected] Dr. Konnyu has over 15 years’ experience in the conduct of systematic reviews across a diverse range of clinical and health service areas (e.g., cardiology, rehabilitation, implementation research). She has also conducted research on methods of conducting evidence synthesis and implementing evidence into practice (i.e., implementation science). In collaboration with numerous multidisciplinary... Read Full Profile Ian Saldanha Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy, and Practice [email protected] Dr. Ian Saldanha trained as a physician, epidemiologist, and health services researcher. His MBBS is from India and his MPH and PhD (Epidemiology) are from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore, Maryland. Before joining Brown University in 2018, Dr. Saldanha was a Faculty member at Cochrane United States, the Cochrane Eyes and Vision US Satellite, and the Center for... Read Full Profile Christopher Schmid Faculty Affiliate [email protected] Christopher Schmid is the chair of the Department of Biostatistics at Brown University’s School of Public Health. He joined the Brown faculty in 2012 as a professor of biostatistics and founding member and Co-Director of the Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health in the Brown School of Public Health. He is Fellow of the American Statistical Association (ASA), elected member and incoming... Read Full Profile Dale Steele Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Associate Professor of Pediatrics [email protected] Dr. Dale W. Steele graduated from the University of Vermont in 1986. He works in Providence, RI and specializes in Pediatric Emergency Medicine. Dr. Steele is affiliated with Rhode Island Hospital. His professional and academic interests include: Pediatric emergency medicine, medical education, statistics, clinical decision models, Bayesian methods Andrew Zullo Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy, and Practice [email protected] Andrew R Zullo, PharmD, ScM, PhD is a nursing home / long-term care pharmacoepidemiologist and health services researcher. He applies comparative effectiveness and safety methodologies to patient-centered outcomes research topics in diabetes, cardiovascular disease, fractures/osteoporosis, infectious diseases, nephrology, and more. His other interests include 1) the quality and determinants of... Read Full Profile People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Brown University Box G-S121-8 School of Public Health Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top