Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Staff Member Spotlight: Linette Sandoval-Rzepka General Earth Institute Staff Member Spotlight: Linette Sandoval-Rzepka She is a division administrator at Lamont and one of the 2020 recipients of the Earth Institute Distinguished Staff Award. By Judy Jamal January 12, 2021 Linette Sandoval-Rzepka is a division administrator at Lamont and one of the 2020 recipients of the Earth Institute Distinguished Staff Award. The Staff Spotlight series features Earth Institute staff members from across the Morningside, Lamont and the Irving Medical Center campuses. The series is intended to highlight the important work our staff members do to keep the Earth Institute running smoothly and to support our mission of guiding the world onto more sustainable paths. These interviews discuss staff members’ careers, their interest in our institute, and insights that might be relatable and useful for the rest of us. This month’s Staff Spotlight features Linette Sandoval-Rzepka, who works as division administrator for the Marine Geology and Geophysics department up at our Lamont campus. She recently received the Earth Institute Distinguished Staff Award in recognition of her problem-solving skills, attention to detail, and support of her colleagues, among other accolades. What was your inspiration to join us at Lamont? Once my current position opened up, I knew immediately this would be a perfect fit, and I was right. It coupled my research administration background as well as my experience working within a department managing research awards perfectly. I was also drawn to working at the Lamont campus, given its picturesque setting — minus the sightings of bears and snakes! Would you share a brief background with us? I started my tenure with Columbia University as an MPA student in the School of International and Public Affairs starting in 2003. After graduating, I worked at some of the major institutions in New York/New Jersey as a research administrator — at NYU School of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical School, and Stevens Institute of Technology, to name a few. I returned to Columbia and was fortunate to work at Columbia’s various campuses. First, as a project officer at both the Morningside and Medical Center campuses and years later, as a grants manager at the Medical Center campus. I guess I have taken a tour of all that Columbia has to offer. But I must say Lamont has the best view! What aspects do you love most about your job? Any insights you may wish to share? I am very drawn to working with our principal investigators (PI) through the proposal process and helping to facilitate and streamline the process. I view my role as someone who can really anticipate the next steps and easily translate what is needed, so our PI’s can submit a successful proposal. I also like working with my PI’s to help manage the financial requirements of their projects. Navigating the variety of systems for federal sponsors and at Columbia can be challenging, so it is always awarding to know that I can provide fluidity to ensure the work is being done. Any New Year resolutions for 2021? Sandoval-Rzepka and her family I do not have any particular resolution, but I hope to bring more calmness into 2021 and be more centered. The world and at times work can come at us fast. I hope to learn better how to confront these changes with more composure and inner peace. What are your thoughts on winning the Distinguished Staff award? I am still in awe and honored to be named one of the Earth Institute Distinguished Staff Award recipients for 2020. I realized after been notified of being a recipient that your good work does not go unnoticed. I truly am honored to be recognized! I always want to ensure I’m providing the best service to my division, Marine Geology and Geophysics (MGG). MGG is composed of a great group of people who are extremely supportive and always ensure that I am successful. I must also mention W. Roger Buck IV, the associate director of our division! He sets the tone of our division and ensures we are a supportive and dedicated division. Any advice for the rest of us on the Employee of the Year award? Looking back at this year, I can only say that you need to keep doing your best, learn to adapt to the times, and when you least expect it, your work will be recognized! Tags Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Staff Spotlight News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close