Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Sociology Commencement of 2022 Relive the Sociology Brown Commencement on YouTube! Watch on YouTube Sociology concentrator, Michelle Liu, chosen as a senior orator for Commencement. Congratulations to Michelle Liu who was selected to bid farewell to Class of 2022 members during Commencement. Learn More MSAR Spring Event Master's (Sc.M) Program in Social Analysis and Research Spring Event, May 6, 2022. Seeing Sociology--Class of 2022 Celebrating Sociology and Social Analysis & Research Senior Theses & Capstones Learn More Sociology Lives at Brown University Department of Sociology Spring '22 Blast Video YouTube Video Blast Welcome to Sociology @ Brown! Our research and teaching are guided by the systematic and scientific investigation of human behavior and social life. Sociology connects. Sociology clarifies. Sociology empowers students to engage effectively with the world around them. We invite you to join us. Faculty and students both work within the department and are linked to a variety of research centers and institutes at Brown—such as: Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations (BEO) Social Science Research Lab (SSRL) Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Graduate Program in Development (GPD) The Taubman Center for Public Policy Institute at Brown for Environment & Society (IBES) Urban Studies Population Studies & Training Center (PSTC) The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top