<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Mike Watitwa MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Nairobi, Kenya Undergrad Education University of Nairobi, BS, 2012 Previous Experience Britam Life Assurance Company (Kenya) Limited HBS Activities Africa Business Club, Finance Club co-president “Being at HBS is like having a second family that is incredibly diverse, inclusive, and supportive.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? As I advanced in my professional life, I recognized some opportunities for growth and development. I realized that to be able to make a real impact, I needed to advance my leadership, communication, and strategic thinking skillsets. I felt that with technology, the world around me was shifting at a very fast pace and business models were getting disrupted. I could not think of a better opportunity to grow in these areas than a program that would expose me to hundreds of business models, business leaders, business problems, and communication and leadership styles. Coming to HBS is like... ...taking part in a truly transformational journey in which you are celebrated and challenged at the same time. Every day, with seventy other of my section mates, we are dealt with 2 or 3 real and complex business problems to solve. The diversity of perspectives, experiences, and communication styles in the HBS classroom is mind-blowing. Being part of the HBS Community is like... ...having a second family that is incredibly diverse, inclusive, and supportive. Since I set foot on campus I have had the chance to interact and form relationships with people from all corners of the world, with different affiliations, beliefs and aspirations in life. As a kid what did you want to be when you grew up? Many things. The most enduring desire was to be a music artist. The Kenyan urban contemporary music culture was taking off around me when I was growing up. As a kid growing up in the countryside, I was desperate to be part of this new, exciting wave. I would record myself on my parents' audio cassettes, rehashing some of my favorite hits. Fortunately, with a voice like mine, it did not take me too long to realize that I should redirect my efforts elsewhere. What is your favorite childhood memory? My parents practised small-scale farming. During the holidays, they would occasionally allow my siblings and me to join other casual laborers to work their maize plantation and earn a modest wage. I was able to save up and buy a new cassette-based Sony Walkman. Who is the one person from your life who you admire today? My father overcame insurmountable odds. He grew up in a very remote village in Western Kenya and was the first and only one in a family of more than 15 to attain a university education. He endured many sacrifices to send us to good schools, some of which were well beyond his means. He also had an unrivalled work ethic. He would wake up early in the morning and till the farm for about an hour before preparing to go to the nearby high school where he was a mathematics and physics teacher. His passion endeared him to his students and won him the admiration of other farmers in our village. He also mingled freely with people from all walks of life – from the herdsman to the prominent politician and would have a good time whenever he partied. What is the best thing about your home town? Nairobi! First, it is known as "The Green City in the Sun" for a reason. Nairobi has a lovely climate with a warm and cool atmosphere for most of the year. Nairobi is a very dynamic city; it offers something for everyone. Whether you are a tech entrepreneur, a nature lover, or a hard-charging nightlife reveler, you will find your tribe in Nairobi. Home Region Nairobi, Kenya Undergrad Education University of Nairobi, BS, 2012 Previous Experience Britam Life Assurance Company (Kenya) Limited HBS Activities Africa Business Club, Finance Club co-president ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College