Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Technology-facilitated Abuse Technology-facilitated Abuse What is technology-facilitated abuse? Women’s Media Center defines technology-facilitated abuse as the use of technology to facilitate harassment, control, and abuse. In the context of domestic violence and sexual assault, online harassment and crimes are part of a larger system of abuse. The abuser is seeking power and control through physical control, fear, or isolation and to force someone into doing what the perpetrator wants. Intersections with other forms of power-based violence Stalking What is Sexual Assault? Through technology, perpetrators may: Disrupt someone’s use of technology or steal private information, such as hacking into online accounts, locking them out to forbid them from using their technology devices, or stealing personal information or images. Impersonate someone by creating accounts on porn, dating sites, or social media and pretending to be someone else in order to defame or harass them or their friends and family. Show unwanted attention by sending explicit, unwanted, or harassing messages repeatedly through texts, messaging applications, online gaming platforms/forums, email, or other digital platforms. Monitor and track someone’s private life via devices or spying tools, such as monitoring computer or cell phone software, hidden cameras, GPS, etc. If someone is using technology (whether through the Internet or other electronic means) to stalk or harass an individual, this is known as cyberstalking. Cyberstalking can include: Faking or lying about one’s identity to initiate a romantic or sexual relationship. This is also known as catfishing. Cyberbullying, which is the use of computers, cell phones, and other electronic devices to threaten, harass, or humiliate another Sharing or threatening to share personal information about someone (including private photographs and private text or email conversations) Sharing shaming, embarrassing, sensitive, or otherwise inappropriate content about someone, whether it is true or not Pressuring someone to send explicit images of oneself Taking sexually explicit pictures or videos of someone without their consent Trolling, or deliberately posting upsetting or provocative statements or photos in order to provoke others Unsolicited or unwanted sharing of pornography or pornographic images Resources Visit the Coping Tools webpage for local and national resources for survivors of stalking and other forms of gender and power-based violence. Learn more about the Quick Escape button. The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance and Immunization Compliance Offices Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close