Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Research Clusters Biologistics CAST Data Science DRONES SMARTCities Additive Manufacturing Agr. & Food Tech Electric Vehicles Endeavor Innovation Partners IIS MD2K Federal Defense Collaborations Adv Dist Learning InitiativeSTEP Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology Research CAST Cluster to Advance cyber Security & Testing (CAST) CAST About Research Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects Leadership Trainings CAST Foundations of Certification Software Testing Excellence Program (STEP) Overview CAST is a collaborative effort of experts who lead research, education, and technology transfer at the FedEx Institute of Technology. Pulling together innovative partners and collaborators from a wide range of backgrounds and disciplines, CAST is especially equipped to address the ever changing cyber security and testing challenges that arise within corporations, governments, and other organizations across the Internet-connected world. We help: Provide proactive leadership of the region's response to constantly shifting cyber security challenges Inform public policy and find cutting-edge solutions to protect the information of private corporations and Tennessee government agencies Help the Department of Defense and national corporations with software testing education and research We are led by: The University's Center For Information Assurance, which is designated by NSA and DHS as a National Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research The Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP), which is the largest university research and training center in the field See current CAST research projects CAST Cluster News Cluster Co-Director Robin Poston was named to the advisory board of the "Centre for Cybersecurity and Data Analytics" (CCDA) located at the Indian Institute of Management-Nagpur. The CCDA is a Centre of Excellence to be set up at the Indian Institute of Management, Nagpur. IIM Nagpur is one of the first management institutes to venture into training and teaching of cybersecurity management using data analytics. Located in the heart of the country at IIM Nagpur, CCDA is dedicated to research, teaching, training, and consulting activities related to cybersecurity management and data analytics. This Centre aims to open new frontiers of knowledge and applications of data-driven decision making in the area of cybersecurity management and business excellence. Research Efforts: Dr. Shiva, Dr. Deng and Dr. Bowman have further their cast cyber security research by: Dr. Shiva supported a grad student partially during 2018 Summer. He attended and presented the paper they have been working on at the IEEE/AC International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing, Zurich, December 17-20, 2018. Dr. Deng and Dr. Bowman from the Mathematics department have written two papers: (a) eChaCha, A Scheme to Enhance ChaCha, (b) Enhanced Secure and Fast Encryption (eSAFE) Scheme for Constructing Secure Random Number Generators in 2018. They are actively searching for suitable conference/journal for their publications. CAST Research Fellow Nirmalee Raddatz currently has 2 papers under review for publication in two A+ rated journals: Information Systems Research (ISR) Journal and at the Journal of Information Systems (JIS). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.