Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home University Life Forum: COVID-19 and Economic Recovery Events Past Event University Life Forum: COVID-19 and Economic Recovery Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 29, 2020 4:30 PM - 5:30 PM America/New_York Online Event Zoom Webinar We invite you to join the virtual University Life Forum: COVID-19 and Economic Recovery on Wednesday, April 29 at 4:30 PM on Zoom. This Q&A will focus on the economic impact of COVID-19 and possible paths to recovery and will feature the following leading economy experts from Columbia University and Barnard College: - R. Glenn Hubbard, Dean Emeritus; Russell L. Carson Professor of Finance and Economics, Columbia Business School; Professor of Economics, Arts and Sciences; Co-Author, A Business Fiscal Response to a COVID-19 Recession. - Katharina Pistor, Edwin B. Parker Professor of Comparative Law; Director, Center on Global Legal Transformation, Columbia Law School; Editor, Law in the Time of COVID-19. - Rajiv Sethi, Professor of Economics, Barnard College; External Professor, Santa Fe Institute; Co-Author, Roadmap to Pandemic Resilience. Moderated by Suzanne B. Goldberg, Executive Vice President for University Life. The event will be recorded and posted on the University Life website. RSVP is required. You'll receive a confirmation email before the event with instructions and a password for joining on Zoom. You may submit a question during registration. For a full list of all University Life events, visit universitylife.columbia.edu/events. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event at Columbia University, please contact Disability Services ([email protected] or 212-854-2388) at least 10 days in advance of the event. Requests for CART (Communication Access Realtime Translation) or sign language interpretation require two weeks' notice. Contact Information The Office of University Life [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close