Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Future Alumni Home Alumni Welcome Students Student Career Trek Student Career Trek Close Menu Home Welcome Students Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek A Student Career Trek is a student’s ticket to career exploration. Each Career Trek takes a small group of students to major U.S. cities to visit a range of companies, from global titans to fresh startups. They connect with UW alums excited to help the next generation, experience work cultures first-hand and see a new city with fellow Huskies. The program fee will be vary from city to city and typically includes airfare, lodging, transportation to company visits and most meals. Due to COVID-19, we are not planning any Career Treks in the 2020-21 school year. Looking for career development opportunities with alumni? Check out UW Husky Landing and Huskies@Work! Why should I go on a Career Trek? Great question, and there are many reasons. Most students participate in Career Treks to learn about career paths, experience work environments firsthand, expand their networks and explore a new city or region. Check out what students have said after participating in prior career treks: “I would highly recommend this program to anyone and everyone at the UW. Even if you are a freshman with no idea of what you want to do after college or a senior with a specific career plan, you can get a lot out of this trek.” “Keep your mind open to meeting new people and encountering new experiences. This program is one of my favorite parts of my whole UW experience because of the people and memories I was able to take away with me.” “This is an amazing experience to know all about different jobs, companies and life after graduation. Plus, this is a great opportunities to meet different alumni from different areas in person! Not to mention you’re going to make great friends with your peers!” FAQ Am I required to travel to and from the Career Trek destination with the group? Yes, we require that all students fly from Seattle to their Career Trek destinations. Am I required to stay with the group? Yes, we require that students stay in the group hotel so as not to interfere with trip logistics. How much does it cost? Your UW Alumni Association is subsidizing the cost of this trip to make it as affordable as possible. The fee for each student will vary from city to city and typically includes airfare, lodging, ground transportation and most meals. When are the dates? And what will we do? The trek will begin with students meeting at the airport on the morning/early afternoon of first day, and will conclude with travel back to Seattle in the afternoon/evening on the last day. The second & third day will be the primary career connection days, with some opportunities for down time and exploring the city. The overall trip will be a mix of company visits, chances to meet alumni informally and career development workshops. What types of companies will we visit and what happens during company visits? Each trek’s itinerary varies and won’t be finalized until after students are selected. The companies and alumni will reflect a variety of industries and positions. Examples of past visits: Bay Area: Google, Pinterest, Wells Fargo, Air Bnb, City and County of San Francisco D.C.: Library of Congress, Department of Justice, FEMA, Mundo Verde Los Angeles: NASA JPL, Triage Entertainment, Greene Broillet, Tetra Tech Portland: Columbia Sportswear, Wieden + Kennedy, Nike, City Hall Company visits will vary but could include a tour, company overview, advice from experienced professionals and Q&A session with various alumni and their colleagues. What do you look for in an applicant? Treks are best suited for students who aren’t laser focused on a specific career or industry, but rather those who are interested in exploring a variety of industries and learning how their major could apply. Even better is if the student understands the value of connecting with alumni and their peers. How many companies will we visit? The number of site visits per trek varies, but most treks include visits to five to eight different companies. How will I be prepared for this trip? If you are accepted, we will host an orientation during the weeks leading up to the trek that will cover expectations, how to network, people you can expect to meet and more. We will coordinate with students selected to find a time that works with their schedules so that we can participate in a group session. Do students have any post-trek responsibilities? All trek participants are asked to complete a post trek survey about their experience. We may also request to use your name, photo and trek reflection to promote the program. Students are also encouraged to follow up with trek site visit hosts and send thank you letters or emails. Do you offer any scholarships? While these Career Treks are already subsidized to keep costs down, we recognize that some students still might have a financial barrier. We are proud to offer up to one full scholarship for each Trek, including lodging and airfare. You’ll have the opportunity to release your financial aid information for consideration in the Career Trek application. I’ve applied, what happens next? You can expect to be notified of your application status by the date listed in your trek application confirmation email. Those selected for the trek will be sent more details, including information about travel, how to pay the deposit and balance, and a program orientation. All selected students will be required to complete an agreement form and pay a deposit by the listed deadline in order to secure their spot. How can I learn more? Email your questions to us at asengage@uw.edu. Thank you to our partner Home Welcome Students Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA