Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Title IX at UW Bothell Parenting Student Resource Program Title IX at UW Bothell Title IX Reporting Parenting Student Resource Program Childcare assistance application process Lactation and Changing Spaces Parenting Student Resource Program Parenting Student Resource Program The Parenting Student Resource Program at UW Bothell is specifically designed to support the needs of students who are parents and uplift them as they complete their degree. We also provide students funding for child care (jointly funded by the UW Bothell Services & Activities Fees and the CCAMPIS Grant), programming on governmental and state resources for parents, academic persistence, financial management literacy in partnership with the Health and Wellness Resource Center, peer support, self advocacy, and more! Attend an information session Learn more about parenting student resources - attend a zoom information session. Offered the last Thursday of every month at Noon (PDT). Please register for the information session prior to attending. A link and confirmation email will be sent upon registration. Contact & make an appointment Christina Hughes (she/her) is the adviser for all parenting students at UW Bothell. Prospective and current parenting students are invited to contact her at uwparentingstudents@uw.edu or 425.352.3613. Current students can also request an appointment through Navigate by selecting the care unit “Childcare and Resources for Parenting Students". Child Care Assistance Program Child care assistance for UW Bothell parenting students The Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP) provides assistance to UW Bothell students in covering the costs of licensed childcare for their children (newborn – 12 years old) while enrolled in an eligible program of study. This award is funded by Services & Activities fees. To learn more and apply for Child Care Assistance, please see the Application Process web page. Non-UW Bothell child care assistance programs for students Working Connections Child Care: Students with low incomes can apply for assistance with child care Goodwin Connections (previously known as Seattle Milk Fund) is a childcare and family support program that helps college students financially with not just the cost of childcare but also the cost of other family expenses due to being a college student. Child Care Access Means Parents In School (CCAMPIS) Program UW Bothell’s CCAMPIS program’s core mission is to support connections to child care access for parenting students at high quality, accredited, licensed childcare centers, and create sustainable support of parenting students. Funded by a grant from the US Department of Education, CCAMPIS aims to provide financial support to low income students. Criteria and award information can be found on the Application Process web page. Students meeting eligibility criteria will automatically be considered for this award by submitting the quarterly Child Care Assistance application. On this page Information Session Contact us/Make and Appointment Child Care Assistance CCAMPIS Lactation rooms & changing stations on campus Researching child care Backup & sick child care Parent Student Union Virtual Cafe Upcoming Events Information Session 6.30 - Noon PDT Information Session 7.28 - Noon PDT Information Session 8.25 - Noon PDT Virtual Café Bi-monthly peer-to-peer zoom meet up for current parenting students Tuesdays starting 6.14.22 at 11am PDT Email for more information and zoom link Parenting Student Resources Researching and finding child care For those seeking assistance finding child care providers in Washington State, a good place to start your research is with the organization Child Care Resources or by calling their organization at 1-800-446-1114. Childcare locations near UW Bothell You can also see a list of child care providers in Bothell and surrounding cities using this excel document. This list is updated quarterly and not exhaustive of the many high quality options in our area. The University of Washington Bothell does not recommend or endorse any childcare provider or service. Off-campus child care The University of Washington has childcare partnerships through two nationally accredited child care sites, KinderCare and Bright Horizons. UW students are eligible for priority enrollment to Bright Horizons and designated KinderCare centers. Both companies have locations across the region, including in Bothell. UW Seattle on-site child care centers The UW Seattle campus has six on-site centers available to all UW students, faculty and staff. Learn more about child care at UW. You can also visit the UW Human Resources website to learn more about child care centers and school-aged care at UW. Backup & sick child care Backup and sick child care is available for UW students. There are options for in-home sick childcare and center-based backup childcare. The backup childcare does require registration and pre-planning. Please register if you anticipate that your family may benefit from backup child care. Lactation room & changing stations Please visit the lactation room and changing station web page for more information. The Parent Union - get connected Join the Parent Student Union today! Email our PSU leaders to learn more and get involved. You can also join us on Instagram @the_parent_union University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us