Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Chinese Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Chinese Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Chinese Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Chinese Develop the skills to speak, read and write Chinese with the Undergraduate Certificate in Chinese in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Tailored to promote lifelong language learning, this 20-credit undergraduate certificate exceeds the diverse language needs of students with academic, career or personal interests in China and its culture. The program supports students with different backgrounds and levels of proficiency in Mandarin. As part of the curriculum, you’ll develop linguistically accurate, communicatively effective mastery of the language. At the same time, you’ll gain insight into how to use the language in culturally and socially appropriate ways. Coursework is intended to help you become proficient in both the spoken and written language. You’ll develop the linguistic proficiency, sociolinguistic knowledge and strategies to communicate effectively in Chinese. Classes & Curriculum The certificate is awarded along with the Bachelor’s degree. It is not a standalone program of study. Courses you will take as part of the curriculum include Chinese Elements I and II, Chinese Intermediate I and II, and Chinese Advanced I and II. Learn more about Chinese Undergraduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Liberal Arts MLA Business Administration MBA* Business Administration PhD* *Fox School of Business Careers The ability to speak, read and write in more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It may increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. The Chinese Certificate (Undergraduate) is ideal for students considering careers in international business, government service, or other professions in which multilingual proficiency is desirable or even necessary. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Louis Mangione is the director of the Chinese program within the Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8247 Email: mangione@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For more information about the Undergraduate Certificate in Chinese, contact the following staff member. Louis Mangione is the director of the Chinese program within the Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8247 Email: mangione@temple.edu Michelle Pugliese is an administrator in the Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: pugliese@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CHI-CR2+ Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Chinese Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info