Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Graduate Education Whatever your professional or academic goals are, a graduate degree from NC State can help you achieve them. Fuel for the Future At NC State’s Graduate School, you’ll join top students from all over the world who come here to learn, conduct research and grow in their field of choice. No matter your path — sciences or humanities, part time or full time, academic or professional — NC State can help you reach your goals. Choose from more than 200 master’s and doctoral programs and graduate certificates, several of which are ranked among the top programs in the nation in their disciplines. As you pursue your course of study in person or online, we’ll connect you with academic and financial support, as well as professional development in areas like teaching, writing, public speaking and language skills. Whether you’re deepening your expertise, entering the academy or climbing the next rung on your career ladder, we’re behind you. 160 Master’s Programs 62 Doctoral Programs 9,500+ Graduate Students The Graduate School At NC State, graduate education is housed within the Graduate School, which offers all the information you’ll need about graduate programs, admissions, fellowships and grants, and professional development. Visit the Graduate School Real-World Innovation NC State students learn by doing. Our students dig into interdisciplinary research that benefits North Carolina — and the world — while driving innovation across science, technology, agriculture, humanities and much more. Our graduate students work and learn alongside award-winning faculty who are pioneers in their fields. They also partner with leading government, industry and nonprofit partners in the Research Triangle area and beyond who seek out our students for their expertise, innovation and problem-solving skills. And they don’t have to go far to do it — some of these partners are located on NC State’s cutting-edge Centennial Campus. Next Steps Find Your Program Explore our 160 master’s and 62 doctoral programs to find the one that’s right for you. Browse our offerings Start Your Application If you’ve decided you belong at NC State, we can’t wait to meet you. Apply now Explore NC State Get to know one of the world’s leading public research universities. Start here A Connected Community Graduate students are essential to the NC State community, building lifelong bonds through campus organizations, student government, wellness and recreation, arts and culture, and service. You’ll find support among a diverse group of fellow students, both graduate and undergraduate, and have access to all the resources of our world-class university. Beyond campus, you’ll find the thriving city of Raleigh, which is full of great food, family-friendly activities, beautiful outdoor spaces, and exciting academic and professional opportunities. It’s a great place to call home. Admissions Information Professional Development Programs Graduate Student Association Contact a Graduate Programs Director Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.