Skip to Main Content Menu Spartanburg Community College APPLY NOW Request Information COVID-19 Info MySCC Portal MySCC App Find Schools & Programs Admissions & Registration Costs & Financial Aid Explore SCC Services & Support Student Life Directory Business & Entrepreneur Foundation & Giving Continuing Education Current Students Future Students Graduation on the Green 2022 SCC congratulates all graduates! View video and pictures from the amazing debut of Graduation on the Green. View Video and Photos Tuition-FREE for ALL Programs All SCC academic programs of study are included in the Tuition-FREE Initiative! If you live or work full-time in South Carolina, you may be eligible. Apply | $0 Tuition Tuition-FREE Including Gen Eds and Transfer That's right, our Tuition-FREE Initiative includes general education courses and associate in arts or science for transfer for 2022-2023 academic year! Apply | $0 Tuition Where Do I Start? How do I Begin? SCC will help you narrow down your options using this new tool to build your own custom viewbook. It's easy, editable and fun! Request For Information What do you want to do? Earn a Certificate or Degree Earn a Certificate or Degree Begin your college career at SCC whether you're looking for a degree or certificate program to prepare you for a skilled job, or you want to transfer to a 4-year college. Read MoreClose Personal & Professional Development Personal & Professional Development Do you need certification for your current job, or you want to obtain skills for a new job or a hobby? SCC's Corporate and Community Education has what you need for personal and professional development. Read MoreClose Search for Classes & Schedules Search for Classes & Schedules Use our Search for Classes tool to find classes you want in the schedule you need. SearchClose Develop Your Business: The Spark Develop Your Business: The Spark Looking for a way to start, develop and grow your business? Spark Center SC - known as the Spark - has everything you need. SearchClose Apply Now! View Catalog SCC Connect Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube Instagram Receive emergency and closing alerts from SCC Events & Deadlines Recent News More SCC News Featured Story An Unbelievable Comeback Inside Higher Ed covers the enrollment increase seen at SCC for 2021 after the free tuition initiative was put into effect for the 2021-2022 academic year. Full Story SCC Concurrent Enrollment Program is First in SC to Receive NACEP Accreditation SCC is the first school in the state of South Carolina to have its concurrent enrollment program accredited by NACEP. SCC Announces Three New Commission Members Katherine O'Neill, Charlie King, and Carter Smith are announced as official members of the Spartanburg County Commission for Technical and Community Education. First Graduation on the Green - SC Lt. Governor Delivers Address On Thursday, May 5th, Spartanburg Community College held the first ever graduation ceremony on the Campus Green of SCC Giles Campus in Spartanburg. Mailing Address PO Box 4386 Spartanburg, SC 29305 Physical Address 107 Community College Dr., 29303 (Business I-85 at New Cut Rd.) Maps & Directions Spartanburg Community College APPLY & Manage Application Emergency & Alerts Request for Information MySCC App MySCC Portal Search for Classes Department Directory Catalog & Publications Employment Essential Student Information Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Privacy Policy Statement Title IX | Student Affairs Transcripts & Records Foundation & Giving Purchasing/Vendors Media Contact Report a Problem Accessibility Phone(864) 592-4600 | (800) 922-3679 Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube Instagram Spartanburg Community College does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin/ethnic origin, veteran status or disability in its admission policies, programs, activities or employment practices. The term “on the basis of sex,” when used in the employment context, includes pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions, including, but not limited to, lactation. The college complies with the provisions of Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and the Higher Education Amendments of 1986; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; the South Carolina Human Affairs Law of 1972; and with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, as well as the ADA Amendments of 2008 (ADAAA). For additional information on nondiscrimination policies, contact Ron Jackson, Vice President of Student Affairs, who coordinates Title II of the ADA/ADAAA, Section 504, and Title IX at (864) 592-4817, located on the central campus in the Dan L. Terhune Building, room 167. © UA-3469135-17 ©