Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Mathematics Why Study Here? Why Study Here? Meet Our People Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Advising Majors Minor Courses Placement and Credit Exams Scholarships Undergraduate Student Awards Jobs Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Graduate Studies Application Master’s Degree Tuition Fellowship M.S. and Ph.D. Programs Courses Dissertations (Last 10 years) Recent Graduates Resources Graduate Student Awards Financial Support People Research Research Experts Faculty Research Descriptions Computing Resources The Center for Research Computing SMU-RTG About About Contact Events Faculty Teaching Awards Math Dept Jobs Give ☰ SMU Department of Mathematics Academics Departments Mathematics Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Graduate Programs Research Welcome The Department of Mathematics fosters an environment that is supportive with hands-on instruction while promoting the proficiency needed to prepare for a wide range of career possibilities. Our particular strengths are in computational and applied mathematics. The department offers B.S. and B.A. degrees in mathematics with specializations in applied and/or numerical mathematics, pure mathematics, computer science and computer engineering, engineering, and operations research. We also offer M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computational and applied mathematics. Current research includes numerical analysis of ordinary and partial differential equations, mathematical software, dynamical systems, fluid dynamics, nonlinear optics, and mathematical biology. Want to be a mathematics major? Colloquia, Seminar Series, and Events Read More SMU-RTG Read More The Center for Research Computing Read More Contact the Department of Mathematics Clements Hall P.O. Box 750156 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0336 214-768-2506 News More news Mathematics Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Research About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube