Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Web » Forms Set Navigation title in component Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Forms Online forms create an interactive web page that allow for user input. The data received through the form is then sent to a designated owner. Popular form types include event registration, contact forms, general feedback and issue reporting among many more. Many online form systems continue to improve their accessibility and there are currently multiple options for web authors at UC to use. Each have different features and authors can use which one meets their individual needs. Technical Requirements An electronic form must pass all the requirements below to pass accessibility standards. Tab order of form field is logical In dropdown menus, you can navigate and select items using the keyboard alone. Data entered is retained if the page is refreshed or too much time is taken to fill out form fields. If a required field is left blank, keyboard focus shifts to that field when user is notified. Forms Options There are currently several form options available for use on UC websites. Each has unique features and you may find the need to use a different form system based on your needs. JotForm Jotform is web-based form application that the University has purchased a enterprise license for. Recent accessibility updates made by JotForm allow us to continue using them as a form platform. JotForm includes a robust set of tools and an easy-to-use interface. Access for this form system is managed by the Marketing & Communication office. If your office doesn't already have an account with JotForm, you can request an account. Best Practices Turn on the form accessibility checker Ensure your template meets color contrast standards Avoid widgets with accessibility warnings Microsoft Forms Microsoft Forms was included with the University purchase of Microsoft 365. Microsoft Forms doesn’t allow embedding images or videos and currently only the creator of the form can receive responses. If you have a UC secure login, you already have access to Microsoft Forms. Best Practices Stick with basic fields such as textboxes, choice or dates Ensure all form fields have meaningful labels Add ALT text to all images used Sitefinity Forms Sitefinity forms were developed and are maintained by UCIT. Sitefinity is suited for both basic forms and also for forms that require a high-level of customization. You can request access and training for Sitefinity Forms. Best Practices Make sure to clear formatting when copying and pasting text into form fields. Ensure headers are properly formatted and organized. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top