<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions About Map/Directions Newsroom Social Media Academic Programs History Statistics Campus & Culture Pioneering Research School Leadership …→ Harvard Business School→ About→ School Leadership School Leadership Dean Srikant Datar → Dean Srikant Datar Dean Srikant Datar Statements & Speeches → Dean Srikant Datar Dean Srikant Datar Statements & Speeches 2021–Present 2021–Present Srikant M. Datar became the 11th dean of Harvard Business School on 1 January 2021. During his tenure at the School, he has served as Senior Associate Dean for University Affairs (including Faculty Chair of the Harvard Innovation Lab), for Research, for Executive Education, for Faculty Development, and for Faculty Recruiting. A graduate with distinction from the University of Bombay, Datar received gold medals upon graduation from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India. A Chartered Accountant, he holds two masters degrees and a Ph.D. from Stanford University. Datar’s research and course development have been in the areas of cost management and management control, strategy implementation, governance, and, more recently, management education, design thinking and innovative problem solving, and machine learning and artificial intelligence. He has published his work on activity-based management, quality, productivity, time-based competition, new product development, bottleneck management, incentives, and performance evaluation in journals such as The Accounting Review, Journal of Accounting and Economics, Journal of Accounting Research, Contemporary Accounting Research, and Management Science. He is a co-author of the leading cost accounting textbook, Cost Accounting: A Managerial Emphasis (Prentice-Hall) and of Rethinking the MBA: Business Education at a Crossroads (Harvard Business Press). He has authored more than 30 cases on topics ranging from Data Science at Target to Nippon Steel. Datar has taught MBA and executive education classes in design thinking, innovation, big data, and strategy implementation. Before joining the HBS faculty he held appointments at both Carnegie Mellon University and Stanford University, where he received the George Leland Bach Award for Excellence in the Classroom and the Distinguished Teaching Award, respectively. Datar serves on the Board of Directors of ICF International, Novartis AG, Stryker Corporation, and T-Mobile US, and has worked with many corporations on consulting and field-based projects. He was honored by the National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) as the Public Company Director for 2020. He is a member of the American Accounting Association and the Institute of Management Accountants. He has served on the editorial board of several journals and presented his research to academic and executives audiences in North America, South America, Asia, Africa, and Europe. →Full Biography Statements & Speeches Dean Srikant Datar's 2022 Commencement Remarks 28 FEB 2022 Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery 28 FEB 2022 →More Statements & Speeches Videos Oct 9 2020 Harvard Business School Welcoming New HBS Dean Srikant Datar Oct 9 2020 Harvard Business School Welcoming New HBS Dean Srikant Datar In the News HBS Celebrates 112th Commencement Re: Srikant Datar, Jan Rivkin & Jana Kierstead 27 May 2022 | Harvard Business School HBS MBA Class of 2022 Celebrates Class Day Re: Srikant Datar, Mattias Fibiger, David Moss, Nori Gerardo Lietz & Emily McComb 26 May 2022 | Harvard Business School Case Method Centennial Celebration: General Shoe Company Re: Srikant Datar & Jan Rivkin 20 Apr 2022 | Harvard Business School Previous Deans 10 distinguished deans have preceded Dean Datar. School History ǁ Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information →Tours Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College