By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Visit and Tour Open Houses More from this Section Virtual Sample Classes Orange Experience Graduate Events FAQ Personal Interviews In Your Area Virtual Tour Campus Visits Orange Previews Orange Previews are a great way to explore Syracuse. Check-in begins at 8:00 a.m., and you should plan to spend the morning on campus. You'll meet staff and faculty in your college of interest, take a tour of campus led by a student ambassador from our University 100 and have the opportunity to meet campus representatives from Syracuse Abroad, the Renée Crown University Honors Program and the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Orange Previews are intended for prospective first-year and transfer students. Upcoming Dates July 29 August 5 August 12 Program This is an overview of the Orange Preview program. You will receive a final schedule and session options upon arrival. Highlights Time Event Location Time 8:00-9:30 a.m. Event Check-In: Take a campus tour or visit with representatives from the Office of Admissions, Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, Office of Pre-College Programs and Study Abroad. Light refreshments will be available. (Tours and visitation with campus representatives resume at 12 p.m.). Location Huntington Beard Crouse Patio Time 9:45-10:30 a.m. Event Welcome and Panel Discussion: Kick off your day on campus with an introduction to the Syracuse University experience with members of the Admissions Committee, faculty, and University 100 student ambassadors. Location Hendricks Chapel Time 10:45 a.m. Event College Sessions: Meet with one of our 10 schools/colleges to learn more about their programs. Location Staff will lead you to your college location. Time 12-2:00 p.m. Event Get Your Questions Answered: Visit with representatives from Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, Army and Air Force ROTC, Office of Pre-College Programs and Study Abroad. The Office of Admissions will also be available to answer questions. Light refreshments and sweet treats will be available. Location Huntington Beard Crouse Patio Campus Tour Options 8:15 a.m. Early Bird Campus Tour Huntington Beard Crouse Patio 12-2:00 p.m. Campus Tour (Afternoon tours dismiss every 15 minutes until 2:00 p.m.) Huntington Beard Crouse Patio Design Your Afternoon Customize your afternoon. Visit another school or college or learn more about campus resources. Schools and Colleges Faculty and staff will be on hand to answer your questions. This is a great opportunity to learn about another college or program you may be interested in at Syracuse. 1:00-2:00 p.m. School of Architecture Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. College of Arts and Sciences | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. School of Education Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. College of Engineering and Computer Science Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. School of Information Studies (iSchool) Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. Newhouse School of Public Communications Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. College of Visual and Performing Arts Open House TBD 1:00-2:00 p.m. Whitman School of Management Open House TBD Other Opportunities to Explore 1:00-3:00 p.m. Army and Air Force ROTC National Veterans Resource Center at the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Building 1:00-3:00 p.m. Bird Library Bird Library 1:00-3:00 p.m. Blackstone Launch Pad Bird Library 1:00-3:00 p.m. Hendricks Chapel Hendricks Chapel 1:00-3:00 p.m. Intercultural Collective: Disability Cultural Center, LGBTQ Resource Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs Schine Student Center 1:00-3:00 p.m. Renée Crown University Honors Program Bowne Hall 1:00-3:00 p.m. Syracuse Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Bird Library Parking Information Event parking is complimentary in the University Avenue Garage (UAG). Parking information and directions to UAG is available on our website. Please use the Harrison Street entrance when you arrive. Related Pages Food and Lodging With hundreds of restaurants and hotels in the Greater Syracuse area, you're sure to find food and lodging which suits your tastes and budget. Campus Map Find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions, and more. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy