Martinez Alvarez, Patricia (pm2593) Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC WWW View All Faculty Profiles Home Vitae Documents Martínez Álvarez, Patricia Associate Professor of Bilingual/Bicultural Education Program Director, Bilingual/Bicultural Education 212-678-3758 Office Location: 351 Macy Macy Office Hours: Office hours change every semester. Make an Appointment Varied Ways of Knowing Project (2016-2020) Photos and Me Project (2015-2018) TC Affiliations: Arts & Humanities Bilingual/Bicultural Education Home Vitae Documents Educational Background Patricia Martínez-Álvarez is an associate professor in the program in Bilingual/Bicultural Education in the department of Arts and Humanities at Teachers College, Columbia University. Her research interests lie at the intersection of bilingualism/biculturalism and critical disability studies. A long time inclusive bilingual education teacher, Dr. Martínez-Álvarez aims at advancing the field of inclusive bilingual education. To do this, she centers on equity in education around three main themes: (1) The exploration of the knowledge of bilinguals and expanding what counts in schools as language and content knowledge and practices; (2) The need for a concerted effort between emergent bilinguals with dis/abilities and the learning context; and, (3) Bilingual teacher education for inclusive classrooms. Her publications appear in venues such as the Journal of Teacher Education, the Bilingual Research Journal, Urban Education, or the Teachers College Record. Ph.D. 2008 George Mason University, Fairfax, VA. Instructional Technology & Multilingual/Multicultural Special Education M.A. 2001 George Washington University, Washington, DC. Curriculum and Teaching in Bilingual Special Education B.A. 1996 Alcalá de Henares University, Madrid, Spain. Special Education in Speech and Language Scholarly Interests Inclusive Bilingual/Bicultural Education Teacher Preparation for Inclusive Bilingual Education Cultural Historical Activity Theory Disability Studies in Education ORCID iD https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9140-2480 Twitter .@PuebladeTrives https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Patricia_Martinez-Alvarez https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=w244eEYAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao Selected Publications Books Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2021). Teacher Education for Inclusive Bilingual Contexts: Collective Reflection to Support Emergent Bilinguals with and without Disabilities. In Routledge Research in Teacher Education book series. New York, NY: Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003112259 Martínez-Álvarez, P. (Under Contract). Permeable categories: Linking language and ability differences for inclusive bilingual education. In A. J. Artiles (series ed.), Disability, Culture and Equity book series. New York, NY: Teachers College Press. Refereed Articles Martínez-Álvarez, P., López-Velásquez, A. M., & Kajamaa, A. (2021). Preparing educators for inclusive bilingual education: A boundary crossing laboratory between professional groups. Cultural-Historical Psychology, 17(3), 125–134. https://doi.org/10.17759/chp.2021170316 *Kwon, J. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2021; Online First). A young linguistic and cultural mediator: Multidimensional learning among multilingual siblings and a researcher. International Multilingual Research Journal. https://doi.org/10.1080/19313152.2021.1930647 Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2020). Essential constructs in the preparation of inclusive bilingual education teachers: mediation, agency, and collectivity. Bilingual Research Journal, 43(3), 304–322. https://doi.org/10.1080/15235882.2020.1802367 Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Chiang, H. M. (2020). A bilingual special education teacher preparation program in New York City: Case studies of teacher candidates’ student teaching experiences. Equity & Excellence in Education, 53(1–2), 196–215. https://doi.org/10.1080/10665684.2020.1749186 Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2020). Dis/ability as mediator: Opportunity encounters in hybrid learning spaces for emergent bilinguals with dis/abilities. Teachers College Record, 122(5), 1–44. Available https://bit.ly/37NgPXu Martínez-Álvarez, P., *Son, M., & Arana, B. (2020). Pre-service teachers’ efforts to mediate learning with bilingual children with disabilities. Teaching and Teacher Education, 91. Available https://bit.ly/2YZu4Ae Ghiso, M. P., Martínez-Álvarez, P., Clayton, E., Álvarez, F., & Gutiérrez, M. (2019). Critical inquiry in the literacy curriculum: The community as a transnational resource. Language Arts, 97(2), 97–104. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2019; Online First). Redistribution of labor to prepare teachers to work in inclusive bilingual classrooms. Urban Education, 1-33. Available https://doi.org/10.1177/0042085919873697 *Kwon, J., Ghiso, M.P., & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2019). Showcasing transnational and bilingual expertise: A case study of a Cantonese-English emergent bilingual within an afterschool program centering Latinx experiences. Bilingual Research Journal, 42(2), 164–177. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2019). What counts as science? Expansive learning actions for a new model of science with minoritized bilingual children. Cultural Studies of Science Education, 14(4), 799–837. Available http://bit.ly/WhatCountsBilingualScience Martínez-Álvarez, P., Pantin, L. E., Kajamaa, A. (2018). Creating shared access: Bilingual teachers and children using technology to multimodally negotiate understandings in science and language. Multiple Voices for Ethnically Diverse Exceptional Learners, 18(1), 22-–41. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2018). Dis/ability labels and emergent bilingual children: Current research and new possibilities to grow as bilingual and biliterate learners. Race Ethnicity and Education, 22(2), 174–193. Available http://bit.ly/DisabilityEmergentBilinguals Martínez-Álvarez, P., Sáez, N., & Ghiso, M. P. (2018). Mediating hybrid spaces in the bilingual science class by learning to cultivate children’s metaphors. Linguistics and Education, 47, 68–83. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017). Multigenerational learning for expanding the educational involvement of bilinguals experiencing academic difficulties. Curriculum Inquiry, 47(3), 263–289. Available http://bit.ly/MultigenerationalLearning Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017). Language multiplicity and dynamism: Emergent bilinguals taking ownership of language use in a hybrid curricular space. International Multilingual Research Journal, 11(4), 255–276. Available http://bit.ly/LanguageMultiplicity Martínez-Álvarez, P., Cuevas, I., & Torres-Guzmán, M. E. (2017). Preparing bilingual teachers: Mediating belonging with multimodal explorations in language, identity, and culture. Journal of Teacher Education, 68(2), 155–178. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017, Published Online 2016). Special ways of knowing in science: Expansive learning opportunities with bilingual children with learning disabilities. Cultural Studies of Science Education, 12(3), 521–553. Available http://bit.ly/WaysOfKnowing Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Ghiso, M. P. (2017, Published Online 2015). On languaging and communities: Latino/a emergent bilinguals’ expansive learning and critical inquiries into global childhoods. International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism, 20(6), 667–687. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Hubard, O. (2015). Modeling change with clay: Bilingual primary students create imaginary landscapes to model slow changes to Earth’s surface. Science and Children, 52(5), 57–63. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2014). Reconceptualizing what counts as language and learning in bilingual children with disabilities. The NYS TESOL Journal, 1(2), 39-58. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Bannan, B. (2014). An exploration of hybrid spaces for place-based geomorphology with Latino bilingual children. Journal of Geoscience Education, 62(2), 104–117. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Ghiso, M. P., & Campano, G. (2014). Engaging double binds for critical inquiry with first-grade Latina/o emergent bilinguals. Sustainable Multilingualism, 5, 62–98. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Bannan, B. (2013). Blending practices: DBR and CALL to enrich emergent bilingual learners’ concept and language development. Computer Assisted Language Instruction Consortium (CALICO) Journal, 11, 127–156. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Ghiso, M. P., & Martínez, I. (2013). Creative literacies and learning with Latino emergent bilinguals. LEARNing Landscapes Journal, 11, 273–298. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Torres-Guzmán, M. E., & Martínez-Roldán, C. (2013). The relevance of the 21st century expansive metaphor in teacher education. Revista Magisterio, 2(1), 11–24. Martínez, P., Bannan, B., & Kitsantas, A. (2012). Bilingual students’ ideas and conceptual change about slow geomorphological changes caused by water. Journal of Geoscience Education, 60(1), 54–67. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Bannan, B., Peters-Burton, E. E. (2012). Effect of strategy instruction on fourth-grade dual language learners’ ability to monitor their comprehension of scientific texts. Bilingual Research Journal: The Journal of the National Association for Bilingual Education, 35, 331–349. Martinez, P., Peters, E. E., Bannan, B., & Baek, J. (2011). Learning to observe in a geomorphological context. Science Activities 48(1), 13–22. Bannan, B., Peters, E., & Martinez, P. (2010). Mobile, inquiry-based learning and geological observation: An exploratory study. International Journal of Mobile and Blended Learning, 2(3), 13–29. Refereed Chapters Martínez-Álvarez, P. & *Son, M. (Invited). Hearing from children to cultivate inclusive bilingual education. In F. R. Waitoller & K. A. K. Thorius (Eds.), Sustaining disabled youth: A disability studies cross pollination with asset pedagogies. New York, NY: Teachers College Press. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Roviró, B. (2020). Expansion along anxiety-mediated tensions: An activity theoretical approach to understanding anxiety in discussions addressing teaching and learning with bilinguals of immigrant background with and without disabilities. In U. Hoinkes & M. L. G. Meyer (Eds.), Der einfluss der migration auf sprach- und kulturräume - The impact of migration on linguistic and cultural areas. Berlin, Germany: Peter Lang. Baron, C., Dobbs, C., & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017). Using historical building analysis to support English language learners’ bi-cultural and historical thinking skills development. In L. C. d. Oliveira & K. Obenchain (Eds.), Teaching social studies to English language learners: Preparing pre-service and in-service teachers (pp. 67–92). Switzerland: Palgrave Macmilla (Springer International). Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Ghiso, M. P. (2014). Multilingual, multimodal compositions in technology-mediated hybrid spaces. In R. S. Anderson & C. Mims (Eds.), Handbook of research on digital tools for writing instruction in K-12 settings: Student perception and experience (pp. 193–218). Hershey, PA: IGI Global. Torres-Guzmán, M. E. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2014). NNS imagining a future self as teachers in bilingual education. In J. dD. Martínez Agudo (Ed.), English as a foreign language: Teacher education (pp. 169–185). The Netherlands: Editions Rodopi. Ghiso, M. P., Martínez-Álvarez, P., & Dernikos, B. P. (2013). Writing from and with community knowledge: First-grade emergent bilinguals’ engagements with technology-integrated curricula. In K. E. Pytash & R. E. Ferdig (Eds.), Exploring technology in writing and writing instruction (pp. 169–185). Hershey, PA: IGI Global. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Torres-Guzmán, M. E. (2012). Bilingual teacher education students’ struggle with interculturality. In J. dD. Martínez Agudo. (Ed.), Teaching and learning English through bilingual education (pp. 213–242). United Kingdom: Cambridge Scholars. Honors and Awards Provost Grant Writing Coaching Award (February 2021). Teachers College, Columbia University Fulbright Specialist Roster (January 7, 2021–January 7, 2025). U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) and World Learning. Four-year tenure American Language Fellow (2020). America's Languages Initiative. American Academy of Arts & Sciences Dean’s Faculty Diversity Research Award (2019). Teachers College, Columbia University Early Career Reviewer Award from the Bilingual Research Journal: The Journal of the National Association for Bilingual Education (2017). Course Development Grant for Inclusion of Latin American Content and Indigenous Languages in the Curriculum at Teachers College (2017). Teachers College, Columbia University. Dean’s Fellowship Program for Teaching and Diversity Award (2017). Teachers College, Columbia University. AERA, Early Career Bilingual Education Research SIG Award (2013). NARST, National Association for Research in Science Teaching (NARST) Equity Scholars Award (2008). Equity and Ethics Committee of NARST Scholars Program. Dissertation Completion Fellowship (2006). George Mason University. NSF Funded Scholarship (2004). Bannan-Ritland, B., National Science Foundation CAREER Grant (five years), Awarded Full-time Doctoral Tuition Support. Spencer Foundation Funded Practitioner Researcher Fellowship (2000), Howard, E., Two-Way Immersion Teacher Research Collaborative Grant. Practitioner Researcher and Presenter. U.S. Department of Education OELA Funded Fellowship (1999). The George Washington University Bilingual Special Education Program, Awarded Full-time Master Candidate Tuition. Developmental Linguistics Honors Award (1996), Alcalá de Henares University, Madrid, Spain. Professional Presentations Keynote and Highlighted Presentations April 2021 Invited Conference Presenter. Hybrid spaces and emergent bilinguals with dis/abilities. Facultad de Formación del Profesorado y Educación. Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (UAM), Spain. April 2021 Invited Seminar Presenter. Seminario Desarrollo Humano y Educación. Dis/ability as mediator: “Opportunity encounters” in hybrid spaces for emergent bilinguals with dis/abilities. Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (UAM), Spain. November 2018 Invited Key Presenter on Teacher Education. Knotworking: An analytical tool for teacher learning. Bremen University. Bremen, Germany. May 2018 Invited Keynote Speaker at the 40th Annual Sunshine State TESOL (SSTESOL). Kaleidoscope of Community: Perspectives & Practices. Something’s going on at home: Possibility-centered hybrid learning spaces for emergent bilinguals with/without a dis/ability. Orlando, FA. December 2017 Invited Keynote Speaker at the 41st Annual Illinois State Bilingual Conference. Emergent bilinguals with disabilities: Existing research and new possibilities. Oak Brook, Illinois. October 2017 Invited Speaker on Effective Education for Students with Communication Disorders at the Love, Grow, Learn: Annual Conference of Neurologists and Educators. Existing research and implications. Fundación Querer USA and Miami Dade College. Miami, FL. April 2015 Invited Key Presenter for Transitional Bilingual Programs Teachers and Network Personnel. Bilingual education. Office of English Language Learners in NYCDOE. New York City, NY. October 2013 Invited Guest Speaker and Research Organizer. Faculty development project. Bilingual special education: An enterdisciplinary Exploration. Southern Connecticut State University. New Haven, CT. April 2013 Invited Panelist. Bilingual Special Education Roundtable: NYS/NYC Regional Bilingual Education Resource Network. Building on bilingualism: Teaching ELLs with disabilities. New York, NY. November 2013 Invited Presenter for the 2014 NCTE Presidential Session. The pedagogy of social imagination in language learning and teaching (PSILLT). Boston, MA. April 2012 Invited Key Speaker. Department of Latina American and Iberian Cultures of Columbia University and the Spanish and Latin American Cultures of Barnard College. Content & language integrated learning (CLIL). Methodological developments of teaching of Spanish. New York City, NY June 2011 Invited Speaker on Needs of ELLs in Special Education. Division of Students with Disabilities & ELLs in NYCDOE. Literacy strategies for ELLs & the common core standards. New York City, NY. March 2011 Invited Key Speaker for Administrators and Teacher Trainers. Division of Students with Disabilities & ELLs in NYCDOE. Bilingual learners & disabilities. New York City, NY. Other Invited Presentations and Workshops October 2019 Invited Seminar Participant. Second Binational Seminar UPenn-UdG. Collaborative endeavor to increase the knowledge base of the critical approach to literacy through bi-national research partnerships. University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara (Jalisco), Mexico. March 2019 Invited Panel Presenter. Bilingual Special Education Panel Highlighted Session. Differently-Abled Multilingual Learners: Identifying and Accessing the Strengths of All Students. The 42nd New York State Association for Bilingual Education (NYSABE) Conference. New York, NY. November 2018 Invited Conference Presenter. Get-to-Work Conference as part of the Anxiety Culture Research Project. Kiel University, Germany. An activity theoretical approach to understanding anxiety. Kiel, Germany. June 2018 Invited Expert Research Seminar Presenter. Learning, Culture and Interventions (LECI; http://www.helsinki.fi/leci or http://bit.ly/2kVfzxmLECINewsletter). Dis/ability as mediator. Helsinki, Finland. June 2015 Invited Conference Presenter. Come in Touch Conference on Teacher Education. Kiel University, Germany. Preparing teachers to work with bilingual children perceived as having disabilities. Kiel, Germany. March 2015 Invited Speaker. International Conference for School Leaders. Bilingual learning advantages. Chiclayo, Perú. March 2015 Inviter Speaker. International Seminar for Language Teachers. Pedagogy of social imagination in language learning and teaching: A Collaborative Project on Expansive Teaching and Learning. Chiclayo, Perú. November 2013 Presenter for the Symposium Organized by the TC Program in BBE. The pedagogy of social imagination in language learning and teaching (PSILLT) Teachers College, Columbia University. New York, NY. January 2010 Invited Conference Speaker and Workshop Organizer, Congreso Nacional de Educadores. La tecnología en la educación (Technology in education.) Universidad de Ciencias Aplicadas. Lima, Peru. February 2007 Invited Speaker in the 2007 Language Series. Differentiated instruction for language and concept development. Bank Street College of Education. New York City, NY. August 2005 Invited Conference Speaker at the Congreso Nacional de Educadores. Acercándonos al aprendizaje por indagación (Getting closer at learning through inquiry.) Universidad de Ciencias Aplicadas. Lima, Peru. April 2001 Invited Speaker at the Spencer Research on Practice Meeting. Strategies to develop higher order thinking skills when solving math word problems. Seattle, WA. April 2000 Invited Speaker at the Spencer Foundation Research on Practice Meeting. Learning styles and language acquisition. New Orleans, LO. Research Conference Presentations Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2022). “Hybrid Humanizing Pedagogical Moments”: A Tool to Mediate Inclusive Bilingual Education. Under review for the 9th Nordic-Baltic international Society for Cultural-Historical Activity Research 2022 (NBISCAR 2022). Helsinki, Finland. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Arana, B. (2022). Hybrid reflective processes for enactment of transformative agency with teacher candidates. Under review for the 9th Nordic-Baltic international Society for Cultural-Historical Activity Research 2022 (NBISCAR 2022). Helsinki, Finland. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Cuevas, I., *Saez, N. & *Son, M. (2022). Pre-service teachers’ learning to design curriculum for inclusive bilingual education: Capturing relevant aspects of curriculum. Accepted for the 2022 AERA conference, Teaching and Teacher Education Division K (Section 5: Preservice Teacher Education Coursework: Curriculum and Pedagogy to Improve Teacher Knowledge and Instruction). San Diego, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2022). Humanizing perspectives for inclusive bilingual education: Authoring “hybrid humanizing pedagogical moments”. Accepted for virtual presentation for the 2022 NABE conference. New York, NY. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2021). Assimilation and resistance: Reclaiming the right to learn Spanish in inclusive bilingual education. Accepted for the 2021 AERA conference, Disability Studies in Education SIG. Virtual Meeting. Lopez-Velasquez, A. M., Martínez-Álvarez, P., & Kajamaa, A. (2021). Preparing educators for inclusive bilingual education: A boundary-crossing laboratory between professional groups. Under review for the 2021 AERA conference, Cultural-Historical Activity Theory SIG. Virtual Meeting. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Son, M. (2021). Breaking down barriers: Hearing from children to learn to teach inclusively in bilingual education. Under review for the 2021 AERA conference, Division K. Virtual Meeting. Arana, B., Martínez-Álvarez, P., & Jeon, S. (2021). Understanding radical inclusive education from within: Pre-service bilingual teachers’ trajectories along a radical-reductionist pedagogical continuum. Under review for the 2021 AERA conference, Division G. Virtual Meeting. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2020). Rules and tensions in the inclusive bilingual classroom: Possibilities for the preparation of teachers as agents. Accepted for the 2020 International Society for Cultural and Activity Research (ISCAR). Natal, Brazil. Postponed for a year. Arana, B., Jeon, S., & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2020). Radical versus reductionist continuum: Pre-service teachers’ experiences, tensions and breakthroughs when working with bilingual students with disabilities. Under review for the 43rd New York State Association for Bilingual Education (NYSABE) Conference. New York, NY (Conference Canceled) Martínez-Álvarez, P., Lopez-Velasquez, A. M., & Kajamaa, A. (2020, Apr 17-21). Landscapes for boundary crossing between professional groups in preparation for teaching bilingual children with disabilities [Rountable Session]. Cultural Historical Research Special Interest Group (SIG). AERA Annual Meeting San Francisco, CA http://tinyurl.com/w2mkths (Conference Canceled) Ghiso, M. P., Martínez-Álvarez, P., Animashaun, O., & Son, M. (2020, Apr 17-21). Interrogating Culture in a Teacher Inquiry Community: Collaborating towards Culturally Engaged and Equity-Oriented Literacy Learning with Latinx students [Paper Session]. Division G: Social Context of Education; Section 3: Languages, Literacies, and Representations. AERA Annual Meeting San Francisco, CA http://tinyurl.com/vfu3xu9 (Conference Canceled) Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2020). Disrupting ableism in inclusive bilingual education. Under review for the 2020 AERA, Bilingual Education Research Special Interest Group (SIG). San Francisco, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Lopez-Velasquez, A. M., & Kajamaa, A. (2020). Landscapes for boundary crossing between professional groups in preparation for teaching bilingual children with disabilities. Under review for the 2020 AERA, Cultural Historical Research Special Interest Group (SIG). San Francisco, CA. Arana, B., Jeon, S., & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2020). Getting radical: Pre-service teachers’ experiences, Tensions, and Breakthroughs when working with Bilingual Students with Disabilities. Under review for the 2020 AERA, Bilingual Education Research Special Interest Group (SIG). San Francisco, CA. Ghiso, M. P., Martínez-Álvarez, P., Animashaun, O., & Son, M. (2020). Interrogating Culture in a Teacher Inquiry Community: Collaborating towards Culturally-Engaged and Equity-Oriented Literacy Learning with Latinx students. Under review for the 2020 AERA, Division G: Social Context of Education; Section 3: Languages, Literacies, and Representations. San Francisco, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Son, M., & Arana, B. (2019). Analytical tools to design inclusive contexts: Conversations in clinical experiences about compensating and removing barriers. Accepted for the 2019 AERA, Teaching and Teacher Education Division. Toronto, Canada. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2019). Dis/ability as mediator: Possibility-centered hybrid learning spaces for emergent bilinguals with a dis/ability. Accepted for the 42nd New York State Association for Bilingual Education (NYSABE) Conference. New York, NY. Ghiso, M.P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2018). Practitioner research with Latinx teachers: Designing a social justice literacy curriculum using photography. Accepted for the 2018 Literacy Research Association Conference (LRA). Indian Wells, CA. Baron, C. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2018). Historical building analysis as a tool to provide multiple means of accessing and demonstrating knowledge for bilingual learners with disabilities in the social studies classroom. Accepted for the 2018 National Council for the Social Studies (only first author attended). Chicago, IL. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2018). Dis/ability as mediator. Presenter for the 2018 AERA, Cultural Historical Research (CHAT) SIG. New York, NY Martínez-Álvarez, P., Chang, S., & Arana, B. (2018). Knotworking: An analytical tool for bilingual special education teacher learning. Presenter for the 2018 AERA, Teaching and Teacher Education Division. New York, NY. Ghiso, M.P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2018). Latina/o children and families’ cross-cultural repertoires: Learning from/with each other through multilingual, multimodal texts. Presenter for the 2018 AERA, Research in Reading and Literacy SIG. New York, NY. Ghiso, M.P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2018). Practitioner research with Latinx teachers: Designing a social justice literacy curriculum using photography. Presenter for the 2018 AERA, Social Context of Education Division. New York, NY. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017). Using intersectionality to surface patterns of inequality for emergent bilinguals with dis/abilities. Presenter for the 17th Disability Studies in Education Conference. Minneapolis, MN. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017). Contributions of CHAT and DSE for expansion of the field of bilingual special education. Presenter for the 2017 International Society for Cultural and Activity Research (ISCAR). Quebec, Canada. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2017). Redistribution of labor: Surfacing forms of exclusion in the BiSPED classroom. Presenter for the 2017 AERA, Cultural Historical Research SIG. San Antonio, TX. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Saez, N., & Ghiso, M. P. (2017). Mediating hybrid spaces in the bilingual science class by learning to cultivate children’s metaphors. Presenter for the 2017 AERA, Bilingual SIG. San Antonio, TX. Ghiso, M. P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2016). Reading the world through images: Latina/o emergent bilinguals exploring inequities and transnational migration through photography. Presenter for the Literacy Research Association Conference (LRA) Conference. Nashville, TN. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2016). The relevance of learning across activity systems for bilingual special education teacher preparation programs. Presenter for the 32nd European Group for Organizational Studies (EGOS) Colloquium. Sub-theme 33: Activity Theory and Organizations. Naples, Italy. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Chiang, H. (2016). Preparing bilingual special education teachers: A pilot study. Presenter for the Council for Exceptional Children (2016). Convention and Expo to be held in St. Louis, Mo. Ghiso, M. P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2015). Cultivating transnational imaginaries: Latina/o children and families’ multimodal explorations of (in)justice and social change. Presenter for a symposium at the LRA Conference. Carlsbad, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Waring, H. Z., & Ghiso, M. P. (2015). Expanding science: Identity and agenticity in a hybrid science/language multimodal curriculum. Presenter for the 2015 International Pragmatics Conference. Antwerp, Belgium. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2015). Expanding what counts as science with bilingual children perceived as having disabilities. Presenter for 2015 AERA, Bilingual SIG. Chicago, IL. Hubard, O., Ghiso, M. P., & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2015). Children’s multimodal creations as mediators for expanding what counts as knowledge through an interdisciplinary curriculum partnership. Presenter for the 2015 AERA, Cultural Historical Research SIG. Chicago, IL. López-Velázquez, A. M. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2015). Boundary crossing in higher education: Exploring possibilities for bilingual special education preparation program. Presenter for the 2015 AERA, CHAT SIG. Chicago, IL. Ghiso, M. P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2014). E/merging theory and practice in literacy research partnerships: An inquiry into our experiences. Presenter for the LRA. Marco Island, FL. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2014). Place-based learning without boundaries: Bilingual children’s funds of knowledge in geoscience. Presenter for the Geological Society of America Annual Meeting. Vancouver, British Columbia (Canada). Martínez-Álvarez, P., Torres-Guzmán, M. E., & Ruíz-Fajardo, G. (2014). Pedagogy of social imagination in language learning/teaching: Expansive learning/teaching. Presenter for 2014 International Society for Cultural and Activity Research (ISCAR). Sidney, Australia. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2014). Expansive learning opportunities with bilingual children with learning disabilities. Presenter for the 30th EGOS Colloquium. Sub-theme 61: Activity Theory and Organizations. Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Cuevas, I., & Torres-Guzmán, M. E. (2014). Art & multimodality in bilingual teacher candidates’ expressions of interculturality. Presenter for the 35th Ethnography in Education Research Forum. University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA. Ghiso, M.P., Hubard, O., Martínez-Álvarez, P., Martínez-Roldán, C., Torres-Guzmán, M. (2014). Pedagogy of social imagination in language learning/teaching (PSILLT): Arts, Multimodality, and Pedagogies of the Possible. Presenter for the 35th Ethnography in Education Research Forum. University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Ghiso, M. P. (2014). In languaging and communities: Emergent bilinguals’ expansive learning in a hybrid space. Presenter for 2014 American Educational Research Association Conference (AERA), Language and Social Processes SIG. Philadelphia, PA. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Ghiso, M. P. (2014). Emergent bilinguals’ discussions about translanguaging in a technology-mediated hybrid space. Presenter for the 2014 National Association for Bilingual Education Conference (NABE). San Diego, CA. Ghiso, M. P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2013). Documenting communities: Opportunities for critical stances with first grade Latino emergent bilinguals. Presenter for a symposium at the LRA Conference. Dallas, TX. Ghiso, M. P., Mraz, K., & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (2013). Writing workshop is for all students: Using visuals, oral language, and digital tools to maximize success and independence for English language learners. Presenter for the 2013 National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE). Boston, MA. Ghiso, M. P. & Martínez-Álvarez, P. (April 2013). Learning in the laundromat: First grade emergent bilinguals document their families and communities through photography. Presenter for the 2013 AERA, Language and Social Processes SIG. San Francisco, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Ghiso, M. P. (April 2013). Language multiplicity and dynamism: Latino emergent bilinguals taking ownership of language use in a hybrid curricular space. Presenter for the 2013 AERA Conference, Bilingual SIG. San Francisco, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Cuevas, I., & Torres-Guzmán, M. E. (March 2013). Bilingual teacher candidates’ interculturality in a multimodal hybrid exploration: Implementations for teacher education programs and for the multicultural classrooms. Presenter for 2013 New York State Association for Bilingual Education (NYSABE) Conference. New York, NY. Ghiso, M. P., Martínez-Álvarez, P., & Dernikos, B. P. (February 2013). Pictures as counter-narratives: First grade emergent bilinguals explore community resources through writing and technology. Presenter for the 34th Ethnography in Education Research Forum. University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA. Martínez-Álvarez, P. & Ghiso, M. P. (February 2013). Emergent bilinguals’ linguistic ownership in culturally engaged, technology enhanced curricula. Presenter at NABE. Orlando, FL. Ghiso, M. P., Martínez-Álvarez, P., & Dernikos, B. P. (November 2012). Talking multimodality: How children, youth, and teachers talk about multimodal literacies. Presenter at the LRA Conference. San Diego, CA. Martínez-Álvarez, P., Wilder, C., & Keene, S. (February 2012). An exploration of teachers’ concept of culture and dispositions with comic life software and follow-up practitioner research experiences. Accepted as presenter 33rd Ethnography in Education Research Forum. University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA. Martínez-Álvarez, P. (February 2012). Exploring teacher candidates’ concept of culture and dispositions with comic life software. Presenter as a presenter at NABE. Dallas, TX. Grants Clinically-Rich Intensive Teacher Institute in Bilingual Education (Co-Principal Investigator), $550,000 for five years, The New York State Education Department, Office of Bilingual Education and Foreign Language Studies. The bilingual Advanced Online Certification. Principal Investigator: Sharon Chang (A&H); Co-investigator: Carmen Martínez-Roldán (A&H), 2019-2023. The New York Community Trust: Brooke Astor Fund for New York City Education (Co-Principal Investigator), $350,000 for one-year continuation of the Photos and Me Program (awarded to Union Settlement Association). Principal investigator: María Paula Ghiso (C&T), 2017-2018. See https://photosandmeproject.com/ The New York Community Trust: Brooke Astor Fund for New York City Education (Co-Principal Investigator), $439,000 for one-year continuation of the Photos and Me Program (awarded to Union Settlement Association). Principal investigator: María Paula Ghiso (C&T), 2016-2017. See https://photosandmeproject.com/ The New York Community Trust: Brooke Astor Fund for New York City Education (Co-Principal Investigator), $440,955 for one-year continuation of the Photos and Me Program (awarded to Union Settlement Association). Principal investigator: María Paula Ghiso (C&T), 2015-2016. See https://photosandmeproject.com/ Clinically-Rich Intensive Teacher Institute in Bilingual Education (Principal Investigator), $320,000 for three years, The New York State Education Department, Office of Bilingual Education and Foreign Language Studies. The Bilingual Special Education Studies. Co-investigators: Carmen Martínez-Roldán (A&H) and Sharon Chang (A&H), 2014-2017. The New York Community Trust: Brooke Astor Fund for New York City Education (Research Consultant and Curriculum Developer), $115,000 for one year, The Photos and Me Program (with Union Settlement Association), 2014. Faculty Development Grant at Southern Connecticut State University (Guest Speaker, Research Consultant), $2,500, English Language Learners and Special Education and Reading. Principal Investigators: Ángela López-Velázquez and Michael Alfano, 2013. Pedagogy of Social Imagination for Language Learning and Teaching (PSILLT) (Co-Principal Investigator), $1,200,000, for three years. United States Department of Education, Office of English Language Acquisition, National Professional Grant. Principal Investigator: María Torres Guzmán, 2012-2015. Co-investigator: Carmen Martínez-Roldán (A&H). Enhancing Vocabulary through Cognate Awareness (EVOCA) (Research Consultant and Curriculum Developer), $1,828,906, four years. Principal Investigators: Igone Arteagoitia and Elizabeth Howard, 2010. The Two-Way Immersion Toolkit (Bilingual Special Education Consultant), Institute of Education Sciences (IES), U.S. Department of Education, Contract Number ED-01-CO-0010. Editors: Elizabeth R. Howard, Julie Sugarman, Marleny Perdomo, and Carolyn T. Adger, 2005. Study of Two-Way Immersion Education (Teacher Assessor of Student Writing Outcomes in Spanish). The Center for Research on Education, Diversity, & Excellence (CREDE). Principal Investigators: Christian, D., Genesee, F., and Lindholm Leary, K, 2000. Doctoral Dissertations Committees Son, Minhye (in progress) – Building on, not tearing down: Serving emergent bilinguals through bilingual education. Sponsor in Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program with Professor of Curriculum and Teaching María Paula Ghiso Kyprianou, Stella (in progress) – Language development of bilingual children with autism spectrum disorder. Department of Health and Behavior Studies Jeon, SooJin (in progress) – Funds of knowledge in bilingual special education. Sponsor in Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program with Professor of Science Education Felicia Moore Mensah Kim, Jeanne (in progress) – Language policies and cultural identities within and international school in Korea: Examining school practices and student perspectives. Member of Dissertation Committee. Department of Interdisciplinary Studies. Sponsor: Dr. María Paula Ghiso Rabadi-Raol, Ayesha (2020) – Acknowledging and valuing the experiences of immigrant/transactional teachers of color in early childhood education. Fourth Dissertation Reader in the Department of Curriculum and Teaching. Sponsor: Dr. Souto-Manning Kwon, Jungmin (2019) – Moving across linguistic, cultural, and geographic boundaries: The multi-sited ethnographic case study of immigrant children. Department of Curriculum and Teaching. Sponsor: Dr. María Paula Ghiso Moulay Driss Aqil (2019) – Morocco: Multilingualism, cultural identity and mathematics education post-French Protectorate, a historical perspective. Member of Dissertation Committee. Department of Mathematics, Science & Technology. Sponsor: Dr. Alexander Karp Ga Hye Song (2019) – Person References in Korean. Fourth Dissertation Reader in the Department of Arts and Humanities. Sponsor: Dr. Hansun Waring Mathieu, Lorna (2018) – An examination of special education instructional programs for English learners in New York City schools. Fourth Dissertation Reader in Department of Human Development. Sponsor: Dr. Lawrence DeCarlo Javed, Suzzanna (2018) – Functions of challenging behaviors and strategies utilized to decrease challenging behaviors reported by teachers and parents of children with and without autism spectrum disorder. Member of Dissertation Committee. Sponsor: Dr. Hsu-Min Chiang Kensuke, Hakoda (2018) – High school instrumental students’ composition processes. Fourth Member of Dissertation Committee. Sponsor: Randall Allsup LaRock, Damien E. (2018) - The Common Core State Standards as applied to the instruction of students with disabilities: Special education teachers’ perceptions. Sponsor: Dr. Hsu-Min Chiang Jaar, Alcira (2017) – Professional development of dual-language teachers: learning communities as potential sites of teacher identity, agency, and advocacy. Third Member of Dissertation Committee in Department of International and Transcultural Studies. Sponsor: Dr. Carmen Martínez-Roldán Wu, Jason (2017) – Assessing bilingual knowledge organization in secondary science classrooms. Fourth Member of Dissertation Committee in Department of Mathematics, Science & Technology. Sponsor: Dr. O. Roger Anderson De la Cruz, Kristy (2017) – Middle school leaders' guide to integrated English as a New Language (ENL) instruction. Fourth Dissertation Reader in Department of Organization and Leadership. Sponsor: Dr. Brian Perkins Olivares-Orellana, Estrella (2016) – Labeled as insufficiently educated: Testimonios from students classified as SIFE. Second Member of Dissertation Committee in Department of Curriculum and Teaching. Sponsor: Dr. María Paula Ghiso Diaz, George (2015) – Attitudes and perceptions of Latino students toward high school physical education. Fourth Dissertation Reader in Department of Behavioral Sciences Wang, I-Ching (2014) - ESL learners’ avoidance behaviors in speaking English. Second Member of Dissertation Committee in Department of Human Development Hsu, Ya-Ning (2011) - Informational books shared reading at home and heritage language maintenance. Second Member of Dissertation Committee and Specialization Exam in Department of International and Transcultural Studies Hung, Kuo-Hsun (2011) - The design and development of an education-designed massively multiplayer online role-playing game (EDD MMORPG) for young Taiwanese Mandarin-speaking learners learning English vocabulary words. Fourth reader in Department of Mathematics, Science and Technology Lin, Yue (2011) - L2 Attitudes and motivation. Specialization exam in the department of International and Transcultural Studies Documents Curriculum Vitae Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links