Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Biology is the study of life, and a major in biology is as diverse as life itself. You may be interested in studying at the cellular level, or you may be interested in looking at mammals as large as elephants. You may want a better understanding of human biology, or you may be more interested in plants. With a major in biological sciences you’ll take on course work that will help you understand the breadth of biology, but you'll have great flexibility to tailor the program to your specific interests. We offer both a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts in biological sciences. The Bachelor of Science is a more comprehensive science degree and is preferred for those who wish to pursue scientific careers, enter professional school or continue into graduate programs requiring a strong science foundation. The Bachelor of Arts provides a strong foundation in biology and is ideal for students planning a career in health care, law, policy or secondary science teaching. FAST FACTS Clemson offers a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts degree in biological sciences. As a Bachelor of Arts student, you can choose to double major in biological sciences and secondary education. As a Bachelor of Science student, you can pursue a B.S./M.S. degree program and begin working on your master's in bioengineering as an undergraduate. We highly encourage students to participate in creative inquiry and/or undergraduate or directed research. Biological sciences is the most popular major for students preparing for medical or dental school admission. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The beauty of the biological sciences major is its flexibility! Begin with the basic sciences and later take classes that will tailor the degree to your interests. The difference between the two degrees is that the B.A. requires four modern language courses and a minor. Bachelor of Arts The Bachelor of Arts in biological sciences provides a strong foundation in biology and is ideal for students desiring a liberal arts education emphasizing an interdisciplinary approach to a thorough understanding of the life sciences. Double Major (Bachelor of Arts in Biological Sciences and Science Teaching, Biological Sciences): Prepare to teach biology on the secondary school level and for graduate studies in any of the life science areas. Bachelor of Science The Bachelor of Science in biological sciences provides students the opportunity to explore areas of biology and delve deeper into biological questions of interest. The Bachelor of Science in biological sciences curriculum prepares students for graduate study in any of the life science areas. Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Program: Apply graduate class credits toward both a Master of Science in bioengineering and a Bachelor of Science in biological sciences. Curriculum Biological Sciences, B.A. Biological Sciences, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration English Genetics Modern Languages Music Psychology Sociology Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Similar Majors Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Outside-the-classroom activities include participation in one or more of our clubs, independent research projects, internships and study abroad opportunities. Research Participate in an all-intensive, discovery-oriented approach to learning through an individual or team-based investigation mentored by a faculty member. Study Abroad Our global learning experiences include health missions in Costa Rica and Panama, general microbiology in Poland and more. Outreach “Something Very Fishy” is a fully immersive arts and sciences outreach program for elementary school children in support of marine conservation. Service learning Gain teaching experience by serving as an undergraduate teaching assistant in laboratories offered by the Department of Biological Sciences. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS COSMIC AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Team Technician Prisma Health-Upstate Rehabilitation Technician ATI Physical Therapy Research Assistant Vanderbilt University Medical Center Marketing Product Specialist Instrumentation Laboratory RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MD University of South Carolina School of Medicine Greenville MD Medical University of South Carolina Pharm.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill DVM University of Tennessee COMMON CAREER AREAS Research and Development Basic Applied Quality control Administration Grant writing Health Care Medicine Dentistry Optometry Podiatry Pharmacy Veterinary Medicine Occupational therapy Physical therapy Medical technology Nuclear medicine Biomedical Sciences Biophysics Biochemistry Cellular and molecular biology Genetics Immunology Pathology Pharmacology Physiology Virology Organismal/Ecological Biology Botany Marine biology Conservation biology Ecology Taxonomy Zoology Biotechology Medicine Agricultural Food science Environmental protection/regulation Bioinformatics Education Teaching Non-classroom education Communication Technical writing Editing Public relations Legislation/Law Regulatory affairs Environmental law Science policy Nonprofit or public interest Business/Industry Technical and pharmaceutical sales Management Consulting Marketing FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.)