Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Financial Aid Financing the high cost of a graduate education can be a serious challenge. The HGSE Financial Aid Office is committed to working with all students to assist in financing their education. It is important that students in multi-year degree programs apply for financial aid each academic year to maximize their financial aid possibilities. Deadlines are communicated via the HGSE Financial Aid website and through email. Financial aid funds are limited and are not sufficient to cover all the costs of attending graduate school, therefore all students are strongly encouraged to seek additional sources of funding. Students should check the HGSE Financial Aid Office website for information about various funding options. Sources of Aid Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Grant Funds HGSE Grant funds are offered primarily on the basis of demonstrated financial need. If eligible, students may receive up to $20,500 in need-based grant assistance. HGSE Grant funding is applied to tuition and fees. Harvard University Restricted Scholarships Students across Harvard University are eligible to apply for restricted scholarships administered by the Committee on General Scholarships, most of which are based on need with some additional criteria. These scholarships are listed on the HGSE Financial Aid Application. Students who believe they qualify for a restricted scholarship should complete the form by the stated deadline. Documentation of eligibility may be required. The scholarships are relatively small, generally less than $10,000. Harvard University Restricted Scholarships are applied to tuition and fees, unless otherwise noted. HGSE Fellowships There are a variety of HGSE fellowships and scholarships that are offered, typically shortly after the time of admissions decisions. Information about the various fellowships and scholarships may be found on the HGSE Financial Aid Office website. These awards are applied to tuition and fees, unless otherwise noted. Employment Federal Work-Study Program A student’s financial aid package may include a Federal Work Study offer. Under the Federal Work Study Program, a student may earn up to a specific amount for the year in an approved job. Hourly wage rates for graduate students in 2021-2022 ranged from $14.25 and up/hour for on campus work, including work done remotely. We expect the 2022-23 hourly rates to be released by September 2022. Depending on the financial aid package offered, a student may earn up to $5,000 or their offered ceiling amount per academic year in part-time work. Federal Work Study job opportunities are posted at the Harvard University Student Employment Office website. Students generally seek work study positions after the beginning of the academic year. Full-time master’s students are given priority for this very limited program. A Federal Work Study offer is not required to work on or off campus, nor is a student required to utilize a Federal Work Study offer that has been granted. There are many non-Federal Work Study job opportunities available each year, and most students who wish to work are able to find suitable employment during their academic program regardless of Federal Work Study status. Teaching Fellowship Program Ed.D., Ph.D., and Ed.L.D. students who wish to be Teaching Fellows may apply for available positions after completing one full year of HGSE coursework. Teaching Fellows must be registered, HGSE doctoral students during the term of the appointment. A Teaching Fellow who is awarded a degree in November is not eligible to hold the appointment during the following spring semester. Ed.D. students can hold a maximum of two teaching fellowships a year between years two and six of doctoral study. Those seeking additional TF appointments must receive permission from their faculty advisor(s) and the Director for Doctoral Studies. Year 2 Ed.L.D. students may work up to 20 hours per week in Teaching Fellowships, Research Assistantships, advising roles, and other co-curricular engagements. Year 1 and Year 3 Ed.L.D. students are not permitted to hold employment due to the intensive time commitment of required Ed.L.D. coursework and residency engagement. Questions about this policy may be directed to the Director for Doctoral Studies. All Ph.D. in Education students are required to complete four HGSE TF “slots” over the course of their time in the program. Most students will fulfill this requirement in Year 3 or Year 4, though students can fulfill the requirement any point in the program before the year in which they receive their dissertation completion funding. However, Ph.D. in Education students are not permitted to serve as Teaching Fellows during Year 1 and Year 2 without written permission of the Director for Doctoral Studies along with support from the faculty advisor. For more information about Ph.D. Teaching Fellow requirements, please review the Ph.D. Student Guide, available on the program website. Ed.M. and C.A.S. students who wish to be Teaching Fellows must receive prior permission of the Director for Master’s Studies. Appointments are generally limited to qualified C.A.S. students and second-year part-time Ed.M. students who have previously taken the course and who have outstanding academic records. Details of the Teaching Fellowship Program and appointment process are available in the Academic Affairs Office Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan This is a Federal Loan not based on need that is available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents of the U.S. only. Information regarding current interest rates and loan fees can be found on the HGSE Financial Aid website. Borrowers may defer payment during the in-school period and for six months after ceasing to be enrolled as at least as a half-time student, however interest starts to accrue once the loan has been disbursed. Students must complete the financial aid application process to be considered for this loan. Students may borrow up to a maximum of $20,500 per year. Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan This is a Federal Loan that is credit-based and is available only to U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens. Information regarding current interest rates and loan fees can be found on the HGSE Financial Aid website. Interest starts to accrue once the loan has been disbursed, but payments may be deferred until after graduation. Students may borrow up to the student budget minus financial aid received, but must first maximize Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan eligibility before borrowing a Federal Direct PLUS Loan. These loans are serviced by lenders contracted by the U.S. Department of Education, which is the lender. Students interested in applying for this loan should contact the HGSE Financial Aid Office or visit the HGSE Financial Aid website. Supplemental Loans Private supplemental loans are credit-based and may be borrowed by students who require additional resources. The Financial Aid Office assists students with a number of supplemental loan programs. These loans have varying interest rates and repayment provisions, and students should pay careful attention to specific loan program details. As terms and conditions change frequently during these financially volatile times, please refer to the HGSE Financial Aid website for the most recent information. Students may borrow up to the student budget minus financial aid received through a supplemental loan program. International Students A limited number of need-based grants and teaching fellowships are available to international students. Grants are based on the relative need of students applying for assistance and do not cover the full cost of attendance. There are no tuition waivers. International students are not eligible for federal student loans or work study and are generally restricted from working in the United States. Therefore, even those receiving grants must have additional personal resources. International students are strongly advised to continue to seek financial support for their studies from governmental and private agencies in their home countries. International students should check the HGSE Financial Aid website for additional information. Fulbright Cultural Exchange Fellowships, U.S. Student Program* Fulbright fellowships are intended to provide opportunities for personal development and international experience through study and research in over 100 countries, with the aim of promoting mutual understanding among nations. Award allowances may include round trip transportation; tuition (in some cases); book and research allowances; maintenance for the academic year; and supplemental health and accident insurance. Enrolled students must apply through HGSE. Information is available through the Career Services Office. A required interview with the faculty review committee is scheduled when a candidate’s application is submitted. Please note: the HGSE deadline is earlier than either the Fulbright or Harvard deadline. *International students must apply through their home countries. Please see The Power of International Education website for more information. Registration and Academic Progress While Receiving Financial Aid Importance of Registration Status for Financial Aid Students must be registered at least half-time and maintain satisfactory academic progress in order to be eligible for financial aid. Students whose registration lapses or who drop below half-time for any reason (e.g. leave of absence, failure to register, withdrawal, registered for only one course) should be aware that such changes will have an immediate impact on the financial aid package and the terms of repayment of student loans. In some cases, leaves may count toward the grace period that precedes repayment of a loan. In other instances, loan repayment may begin immediately. Students are strongly urged to review the terms of their loans and discuss those terms with the Financial Aid Office before changing from full-time to another status. Students on Federal Financial Aid: Additional Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards All students should refer to the Annual Satisfactory Academic Progress Review section of this handbook for additional requirements. To receive Federal/Title IV financial aid, a student must be making satisfactory academic progress as defined below. As such, at each academic evaluation students must: Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average of B- and carry no more than one Incomplete in the Ed.M. and C.A.S. programs; maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average of B+ with A caliber work in some courses in the Ed.L.D. Program Satisfy academic degree requirements as defined by the academic program Complete at least 50% of the cumulative attempted courses (during coursework phase for doctoral candidates). Attempted credits are defined as any credits for which a student has registered in a given semester Complete degree requirements for graduation within 150% of the normal time allotted for students in similar situations The maximum time for which financial aid can be received is: Degree Full-Time Student Part-Time Student Evaluation Schedule Ed.M. or C.A.S. 3 semesters 6 semesters At the end of fall and spring semesters Ed.L.D. 9 semesters Not applicable At the end of fall and spring semesters Ed.D. 20 semesters 20 semesters At the end of each academic year Failure to satisfy these requirements will result in a Financial Aid Warning for programs evaluated at the end of each semester. A Financial Aid Warning shall consist of one additional semester of eligibility after the term in which a student failed to meet the conditions for Satisfactory Academic Progress. Once the Financial Aid Warning period has expired, students who are still failing to make Satisfactory Academic Progress will lose financial aid eligibility, while students who have made Satisfactory Academic Progress are no longer in warning status, and will maintain eligibility. Ed.D. students who fail to meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress standards when reviewed at the end of the school year will lose federal financial aid eligibility for the following semester. Once that semester has concluded, they may request another review to determine if they meet the standards at that point. If so, they will regain eligibility for the following semester. If not, then until a review is conducted demonstrating that they have been able to meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress standards, then they will not have eligibility for federal student aid. No student may receive federal student aid beyond the timeframe noted in the chart above. HGSE does not allow for an appeal process for financial aid eligibility determinations. Treatment of Withdrawals, Incompletes, SAT/NCR Course withdrawals are not included in the average grade calculation nor in attempted coursework. Incomplete grades are not included in the average grade calculation, but are considered a non-completion of attempted coursework. If the Incomplete grade is replaced with a permanent grade, then academic progress will be re-evaluated. Failing grades are treated as attempted courses and are included in the average grade calculation. NCR grades are treated as non-completion of attempted courses, but are not part of the average grade calculation. SAT grades are treated as attempted and completed courses, but are not included in the average grade calculation. Refunds and Employee Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP) Student Account Refunds and Refunds of Federal Financial Aid Students whose student account payments (personal payments, financial aid, etc.) exceed their billed account charges may be eligible for a student account refund. Students must meet all financial aid, registration, and academic requirements to receive a refund. Most students automatically receive refunds after class registration and attendance is confirmed at the start of fall and spring terms, but they may also be requested from the Financial Aid Office during the academic year if a new account credit exists. Students are encouraged to enroll in direct deposit to receive a student account refund quickly and securely. Students who receive financial assistance and who change their registration status (e.g. withdraw; change from full-time to part-time) should be aware that in some instances the financial assistance received, or a portion of it, must be returned to the financial aid sources, including federal and Harvard programs, according to a federally mandated formula. Please refer to the related information section of the Financing Your Education Guide on the HGSE website. Harvard University Tuition Assistance Plan Harvard University employees, including those in a degree program and those registering in non-degree studies, may be eligible for Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP) benefits. TAP benefits are considered to be a source of financial assistance and must be included in the financial aid analysis. Students who receive TAP benefits must notify the Financial Aid Office of the number of their classes covered by TAP each semester so that an accurate financial aid award can be determined. If students learn of TAP benefit eligibility after receiving a financial aid offer, adjustments to the offer will be made at that time. Students receiving TAP benefits are not eligible for HGSE grant assistance or other institutional scholarship or grant aid. For general information about TAP, contact the Office of the Registrar, your local HR office, or supervisor. Financial Aid Fraud Students who are deliberately deceptive in their financial aid applications are subject to disciplinary action. If you purposely give false information in the aid application process and receive aid from federal programs, you may be subject to fine, or imprisonment, or both. If, after reviewing an application for financial aid, the School has reason to suspect that an aid applicant may have deliberately misrepresented information resulting in fraud or other criminal misconduct in connection with the aid application, disciplinary action may be taken. Referral in such cases for applicants receiving federal aid may be made to the US Department of Education's Office of Inspector General, or, if more appropriate, to a state or local authority. If evidence of fraud or criminal misconduct is documented, the School will review the matter to determine if the student should be sanctioned or dismissed. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice