Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Scholarships Career Center Center for Academic Support in Engineering and Computer Science CASECS Mission Statement The Center for Academic Support in Engineering and Computer Science (CASECS) is designed to support students during their first two years of college as Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) majors. The program aims to provide a sense of connection to their college, to build community among their peers and to assist student engagement in successful academic strategies that help them persist to graduation. CASECS serves students who are first in their family to attend and/or graduate from college, who are committed to their academic success, and interested in exploring the programs and services ECS has to offer in support of their success. The CASECS program will enhance the academic experience and help students discover their full potential as they work toward degree completion. What CASECS Does Provides access to culturally responsive academic advising Provides priority registration for the first semester following application approval and the successful completion of program requirements for each semester Increases student engagement, sense of belonging, and sense of connection with the College of Engineering and Computer Science Builds a support community among students with similar career goals Provides opportunities for mentoring relationships between faculty and students Increases awareness of the research experience and opportunities with faculty Collaborates with the CSUF Career Center and college specific opportunities to offer professional networking Offers an annual scholarship to CASECS participants Contact Sergio Guerra, Director Room: CS-201 Phone: 657.278.7302 Email: sguerra@fullerton.edu Bio: Sergio Guerra received his Bachelor of Arts & Master of Arts in Mathematics and Education Counseling degrees from California State University, Dominguez Hills. He is the advisor for the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) & the Society of Mexican American Engineers and Scientists (MAES). This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.