Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery News & Ideas News & Ideas Behind Women’s Suffrage, Untold Subplots Toggle information Close detail panel Manisha Sinha. Photo by Kevin Grady/Radcliffe Institute Share This page S h a r e T h i s Share this page on Facebook F a c e b o o k Share this page on Twitter T w i t t e r Share this page on LinkedIn L i n k e d I n My interest in the long history of the amendment and the suffrage movement began when I wrote my second book on abolition, The Slave’s Cause: A History of Abolition (Yale University Press, 2016). Author By Manisha Sinha Published 12.20.2019 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Emerging Storylines A Lifetime of Working Toward Justice Burst of Imagination In a chapter on pioneering black and white feminist abolitionists, I had to leave out an entire section on women’s rights because my editor did not think it belonged in a book about abolition. Those 20 pages seeded my new project, and now, as a 2019–2020 Mellon-Schlesinger Fellow at the Radcliffe Institute, I am excited to begin research on a book examining the post–Civil War reconstruction of American democracy that terminated with passage of the 19th Amendment, in 1920. This book—on contestations over citizenship in the second half of the 19th century and the first two decades of the 20th—will explore Reconstruction-era questions of who was an American citizen, whether all citizens were equally rights-bearing individuals, and what citizenship entailed. Gender and democracy lay at the heart of the conflict. Instead of viewing the 19th Amendment as a Progressive-era reform, I trace its roots to abolitionist feminism and post–Civil War debates over constitutional amendments and the boundaries of citizenship. Rather than emphasize the abolitionist-feminist split that also divided the suffrage movement, I connect women’s enfranchisement and citizenship to politics, laws, and amendments of the Reconstruction era. The redefinition of American democracy during this time would have significant repercussions in the fight for the vote, even though few scholars of the 19th Amendment pay it close attention. My project is nothing short of an attempt to create an alternative genealogy of the amendment and of women’s suffrage and citizenship more generally. The manuscript papers of prominent suffragists will form the core of my research at Radcliffe. Among the collections most important to me are the Blackwell Family Papers, the Susan B. Anthony Papers, the Olympia Brown Papers, the Beecher-Stowe Family Papers, the Loring Family Papers, the Charlotte Perkins Gilman papers, and the Alice Paul Papers, to name only a few. I am lucky to be assisted in my efforts by three research partners: Selket Jewett ’21, Piper Winkler ’21, and Chico Payne ’20. The digitization of sources by the Schlesinger has allowed the Harvard undergraduates to work from their computers all across campus and has hastened our progress considerably. I expect to complete substantial research and writing on this book while at Radcliffe, which is the ideal setting for my project. It would be virtually impossible to write a history of the 19th Amendment without mining the wonderful resources of the Schlesinger Library. Manisha Sinha is the James L. and Shirley A. Draper Chair in American History at the University of Connecticut. In addition to The Slave’s Cause, which won the Frederick Douglass Book Prize, she is the author of The Counterrevolution of Slavery: Politics and Ideology in Antebellum South Carolina (University of North Carolina Press, 2000). Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College