Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Past Due Accounts » Collections Payment Plans Set Navigation title in component Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Collections Payment Plans University of Cincinnati has partnered with Flywire to provide payers a secure and easy collections payment plan process. Flywire’s solution will provide a seamless experience for students—allowing them to pay down their UC balance over time with no additional late fees or penalties. Flywire’s extensive global collection network is trusted by over 2000 institutions worldwide. We’re excited to expand our payment partnership with Flywire and partner to offer our past due payers flexible Payment Plan options! Payment Plan Process When an account is 45 days past due, eligible students, based on account balance, are offered a collection payment plan that carries no interest. If eligible for this payment plan, a “Welcome Email” with instructions and the link to “Get Started Now” will be sent. Only students can enroll in a collection payment plan. Students activate their payment plan by selecting the number of installments they prefer, the date they want their automated payment to be processed every month and their preferred payment method. There is a one-time non-refundable $35 enrollment fee due at the time of activation. Collection payment plans can also be customized, within guidelines and limitations, to fit the student's monthly budget by contacting the UC Collections staff. Please note: Students will not be permitted to register for a new term, have access to their official transcript(s), or diplomas until the account balance is paid in full, even if the student is enrolled in a collection payment plan. FAQs How do I update my personal information on my Collection Payment Plan? right arrow down arrow Log in to Catalyst, select the “My Profile” tile. Next, choose “Update Profile” then select Phone Number or E-mail Address. Your Collection Payment Plan will be updated in real time. Can I request a different payment plan if none of the offers fit my budget? right arrow down arrow Collection payment plans can be customized, within guidelines and limitations, to fit the student's monthly budget. Students must contact the UC Collections Office to discuss a customized payment plan. Can I register for a future term if I signed up for a payment plan to pay my past due balance? right arrow down arrow A student’s balance must be paid in full before registering for a future term. Can my parent who has delegated access activate my payment plan and make payments? right arrow down arrow Only students can enroll in a collection payment plan. Parents/guests with delegated access cannot enter into collection payment plans on behalf of their students. Students select the number of installments they prefer, the date they want their automated payment to be processed every month, and pay a $35 sign-up fee- (sign-up fee in not refundable). Once enrolled in the payment plan, parents/guests with delegated access can make a payment in Cashnet, which will automatically adjust your payment plan balance and number of remaining payments. How do I activate a Payment plan? right arrow down arrow Eligible students will receive a Collection Payment Plan email notification with a “Get Started Now” link that will take you to your Collection Payment Plan Offers. Click “Select” on the preferred payment plan and follow the prompts. What are the payment options for the payment plan? right arrow down arrow The payment options are direct debit from a checking or saving account. There is no charge for this option (routing and account numbers required). Credit/Debit Card payments incur a 2.75% service fee. You can change your payment option at any time. How do I get a receipt for my monthly installment payment? right arrow down arrow You are emailed a receipt when you make a payment online. All payment receipts can be accessed from your Collection Payment Plan dashboard by selecting ‘View all Activity’ from the dropdown menu. I signed up for a payment plan but have received financial aid and/or other funds that will cover my balance in full. What should I do? right arrow down arrow There is nothing you need to do. Your account will automatically adjust. Can I make monthly payments in addition to my scheduled auto-deduction? right arrow down arrow Yes, additional monthly payments will reduce the amount owed the following month and then it will reduce the number of scheduled payments. I'm on a payment plan and there wasn't enough money in my account to cover the payment. What will happen? right arrow down arrow You will receive a notification before any installment is processed to give you an opportunity to make sure sufficient funds are available to process each upcoming installment. Once your payment plan is active, if an installment fails twice for any reason, the Payment Plan will be automatically terminated. If you wish to enroll in a new plan after this occurs, you may be charged another non-refundable sign-up fee. What type of communication is there from Flywire once I enroll in a payment plan? right arrow down arrow Once signed up, you will receive notification of your subsequent installments in advance of their due dates. Students can expect several different communications from Flywire. An email is automatically sent when a payment plan is activated, an upcoming payment plan payment reminder, an auto payment is processed, the payment plan amount is changed, etc. Students can opt out or opt in to receive these communication notifications under "Actions" and then selecting "Manage Notifications." By default, email notifications will be sent. Students may also opt in to receive text message notifications. The text message notifications are used for notifications triggered by an action after a payment plan is activated Who do I contact for questions about my student account balance? right arrow down arrow One Stop Student Services. They can be reached at (513)556-1000 or onestop@ucmail.uc.edu. Who do I contact for questions regarding the payment plan enrollment process? right arrow down arrow Students may contact the One Stop Student Service Center for general questions about the Collection Payment Plan. What if I want to pay off my payment plan early? right arrow down arrow Log in to your Collection Payment Plan and click on the “Make Payment” tab. Next, enter the amount in the “Amount To Pay” box and follow the prompts. How long does it take for the collections hold to come off my account once my balance is paid in full? right arrow down arrow Holds are removed from your account in Catalyst within 24 hours. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top