Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »DCM »K-State News »News »Wildcat Wind Power notches first-ever win at DOE's Collegiate Wind Competition K-State News Home News K-State Today K-State in the news Seek research magazine Graduation/honor lists See all of News For Media Media Guide Experts Achievements Broadcast-ready news Photo and video guidelines Stock photos See all of For Media Resources Safety Parking Campus map See all of Resources Social Media Directory Guidelines See all of Social Media Contact Staff Share your news See all of Contact News home Archives K-State Today K-State in the news Archives Seek research magazine Graduation/honors lists K-State News Kansas State University 128 Dole Hall 1525 Mid-Campus Dr North Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-2535 media@k-state.edu Wildcat Wind Power notches first-ever win at DOE's Collegiate Wind Competition Thursday, May 26, 2022 Members of the Wildcat Wind Power team at the 2022 Collegiate Wind Competition pose with their awards after taking first place overall. From left: Israel Barraza, Michael Brosseit, David Pierson, Jakob Long, Hayden Dillavou, Andrew Dulac, Kavian Kalantari, faculty advisor Hongyu Wu, Brianna Wagoner, Matthew Monsion, Eric Christman and Josh Meurer. | Download this photo. MANHATTAN — Kansas State University's Wildcat Wind Power team won for the first time in club history at the 2022 Collegiate Wind Competition, a U.S. Department of Energy event in San Antonio May 16-18. The K-State team battled 11 other schools to claim the top prize in the yearlong national competition. The team designed, built and tested its model wind turbines throughout the academic year before presenting and testing the models in a wind tunnel at the event, which was in conjunction with the American Clean Power Association's CLEANPOWER 2022 conference and exhibition. Hongyu Wu, faculty advisor for Wildcat Wind Power, was pleased to see the team's hard work pay off. "I am so proud of our team's effort in this competition," Wu said. "The chief judge was very complimentary of the team's performance, saying the turbine testing performance was the best he had seen since the inception of the DOE Collegiate Wind Competition." The competition is divided into four contests that test the skills of the team on its ability to create a viable model, along with rating the team's design and presentation skills, its ability to design an offshore wind farm and its effectiveness in wind-related outreach. K-State placed in the top half of each contest, winning in turbine testing, taking second in turbine prototype, fourth in connection creation and fifth in project development to finish with the highest overall score. "We developed the turbine early in the fall semester and continued design and testing right up until we left for San Antonio," said Hayden Dillavou, vice president of the club. "We have our own wind tunnel and workspace in the basement of the engineering building, where we do most of our testing and design work." Dillavou said the club is made up primarily of mechanical and electrical engineering students but welcomes members from all majors and backgrounds, including those outside the Carl R. Ice College of Engineering. The following students are members of Wildcat Wind Power: Matthew Monsion, May 2022 graduate in electrical engineering, Conway Springs; Andrew Dulac, May 2022 graduate in computer engineering, Derby. From Greater Kansas City: Chase Eccles, junior in mechanical engineering, Gardner; Kent Deterding, sophomore in electrical engineering, Kansas City; Israel Barraza, sophomore in civil engineering, Michael Brosseit, senior in electrical engineering, Jakob Long, junior in construction science and management, Kavian Kalantari, senior in mechanical engineering, and Tyler Schooley, May 2022 graduate in electrical engineering, all from Olathe; Eric Christman, May 2022 graduate in mechanical engineering and Spanish, and Hayden Dillavou, May 2022 graduate in electrical engineering, both from Overland Park; Andy Freshnock, senior in computer engineering, Prairie Village; Josh Meurer, senior in mechanical engineering, Shawnee. Rafael Lopez Barraza, senior in mechanical engineering, Liberal; David Pierson, junior in electrical engineering, Sabetha; and Patrick Flett, May 2022 graduate in electrical engineering, Wichita. From out of state: Jacob Lowe, junior in mechanical engineering, Firestone, Colorado; Macie Sexten, sophomore in electrical engineering, Columbia, Missouri; Brianna Wagoner, senior in electrical engineering, Kansas City, Missouri; and Wesley Smith, senior in mechanical engineering, Allen, Texas. Source Hongyu Wu 785-532-5600 hongyuwu@k-state.edu Website Collegiate Wind Competition News tip Conway Springs, Derby, Gardner, Kansas City, Liberal, Olathe, Overland Park, Prairie Village, Sabetha, Shawnee and Wichita, Kansas; Firestone, Colorado; Columbia and Kansas City, Missouri; and Allen, Texas. Written by Grant Guggisberg 785-532-6715 grantg@k-state.edu Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 5/26/22