Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'O': Occupational Therapy The post-professional OTD program prepares students for continued professional development in an area of clinical specialization, including preparation for teaching in that area of specialization in an academic setting. This unique program can be done 100% online. Off-Campus Housing Welcome to the Baylor University Guide to Off-Campus Living. Here you will find information about the housing options available off-campus and how to deal with some of the problems that you may encounter. Office for Engaged Learning The Office for Engaged Learning is a hub that brings together mentoring opportunities for students in the Fine Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and the Sciences. The office also works as a point of contact for students seeking to engage in the community, study abroad, apply for national scholarships and awards. Office of Access and Learning Accommodation Baylor University and the Office of Access and Learning Accommodation are committed to assuring equal access in all aspects of the college experience. OALA works with personnel from all areas of the University, especially faculty and administration, to determine how students with disabilities will meet academic requirements. Office of Interdisciplinary Programs The Office of Interdisciplinary Programs provides Baylor students with vital interdisciplinary curricular options and incubates innovative interdisciplinary faculty research and teaching collaborations. Office of Investments The Office of Investments is composed of a strong team of investment professionals that are experienced in investing across all aspects of the globally diversified Endowment portfolio. The office also manages real estate and other assets. Office of Research Advancement (ORA) The Office of Research Advancement (ORA) provides comprehensive faculty support for research proposals seeking external funding through the identification of appropriate funding sources, development of competitive proposals, writing and editorial support, fostering cross-discipline university-wide teams, hosting grant writing seminars, and providing Proposal Development Awards. Office of Research Compliance Baylor's Office of Research Compliance provides support to the Baylor research community to ensure all research activity complies with applicable government regulations, guidance documents, and funding agency guidelines. We help Baylor faculty, staff, and student researchers navigate research requirements through education and quality improvement initiatives designed to facilitate research, improve efficiencies, and ensure regulatory compliance. Office of the President Dr. Linda A. Livingstone began her tenure as Baylor University’s 15th president on June 1, 2017. Office of the Provost As the university's chief academic officer, the Provost has responsibility for all of Baylor's academic enterprises including twelve schools and colleges and more than one dozen research centers and institutes. The Provost works closely with the President, deans, department chairs, faculty, Regents, and others to provide academic vision and leadership and to promote and support excellence in teaching, learning, and research within the context of a Christian worldview. Office of the Registrar The home page of the Baylor University Registration office. Official Baylor Plates Fling your green and gold every time you’re on the road, and support Baylor students as you go. The official Baylor license plate is available to all Texas drivers. With each plate you purchase, a portion comes back to Baylor in support of student scholarships. Prices start at $35 per year. Official Baylor Ring Where to find details on acquiring a Baylor Class Ring. Ombuds to Students The Ombudsman to Students at Baylor University provides informal, neutral, and confidential dispute resolution services for students. Assistance is provided for interpersonal misunderstandings or disputes as well as to those with concerns about academic or administrative issues. One Stop Student Services A quick & easy resource for admissions, financial aid, billing & payment. OneSearch OneSearch is a discovery resource that provides a single place to search most of the content available from the Baylor University Libraries. OneSearch replaces the Bearcat legacy library catalog system. Online Directory This directory is the official Baylor phonebook with contact information for faculty, staff and students. Information is provided within the system explaining how to update information contained in the directory. Opera - School of Music Established in the early 1940's, the Baylor Opera Theater (BOT) has a history of excellence in opera production and training. BOT is proud of its alumni who are singing professionally all over the world. Organizational Chart The Baylor University organizational chart Orientation New student orientation is an event you won't want to miss. During this two-day event, you'll learn more about Baylor, meet with an advisor to plan your college career, and register for your first semester classes. Outdoor Adventure Living and Learning Center The OA LLC is a close-knit community of students who love the outdoors and have a thirst for adventure and new experiences. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'O': Olafsen,Linda Osborn,Tanner Osborn,Viola Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678