Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Italy | Private Dinner Events Past Event CAA Italy | Private Dinner Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 2, 2022 8:00 PM - 11:00 PM Europe/Rome Off-campus Join us on Wednesday, March 2 at 8:00 pm for a dinner for Columbia Alumni, our first event of 2022. A private chef will prepare an exclusive menu, and the event will be hosted by the founders of Ma's Hidden Kitchen Supper Club at their private residence in the Navigli area. The dishes will be based on local and seasonal ingredients. Catch up with alumni and make new connections during this special event. The event is the proposal of Nara Kim, '99BC. The cost of the event is 60 Euros and includes an appetizer, three courses, dessert, a welcome drink, wine, and coffee. Payment must be made in advance to reserve your spot. Partners are welcome. A few important details: Please register here. Upon receipt of a confirmation email, you must submit payment within 24 hours. Instructions on submitting payment by Paypal will be in the confirmation email. Notify us when submitting payment of any dietary requirements. A menu will be sent in advance to registered and paid participants. Cancelation Policy: 72 hours prior to the event (Feb. 27 8 pm): The fee will be returned to you. Within 72 hours of the event (After Feb. 27 8 pm): You will not receive a refund from us. If an Alumnus/Alumna takes your spot, you and your substitute must coordinate the payment of the fee between yourselves. Number of participants: If you can't register because the 14 person limit has been met, please email the Milan Ambassadors and we will put you on the waitlist. If we do not meet the 12 person minimum 72 hours before the event, the event will be cancelled and the fee will be returned to those who registered and paid. If you have any questions, please contact the Milan Ambassadors Diana Wade or Sara Sciuccati. Please note that registration must be done through the online registration form. RSVP: https://italy.alumni.columbia.edu/private_dinner Contact Information CAA Italy [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close