Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content University Honors Program About About Faculty and Staff Admission Admission The UHP Advantage Current Students Current Students Community What is an honors course? Current Courses Travel Courses Common Reading Culminating Project Research and Fellowship Research and Fellowship Research at SMU Richter International Fellowship Program Department and Division Honors News and Events News and Events Gartner Lecture Series Hilltopics Alumni Alumni Senior Class Profiles Alumni Spotlight Give ☰ University Honors Program News and Events Hilltopics Hilltopics Founded by Honors students over a decade ago, Hilltopics is an opinion paper written and designed entirely by students that offers a lively exchange on current affairs, politics, and campus happenings. Not limited to the Honors community, the paper seeks to reach out to all in the SMU community. Exclusive online Hilltopics content can be found here. Archive PDF Archive of Recent Hilltopics Volumes Vol. 10 Vol. 11 Vol. 12 Vol. 13 Vol. 14 Vol. 15 Vol. 16 Vol. 17 Issue 1 Issue 2 Issue 3 Issue 4 Issue 1 Issue 2 Issue 3 Issue 4 Issue 5 Issue 1 Issue 2 Issue 3 Issue 4 Issue 5 Issue 1 Issue 2 Issue 3 Issue 4 Issue 1 Issue 1 Issue 2 Issue 3 Issue 1 Issue 2 Issue 1 Issue 2 Staff 2019-2020 Staff List Editors in Chief Nicole Kiser nkiser@smu.edu Lorien Melnick lmelnick@smu.edu Online Editors Alec Mason armason@smu.edu Thomas Park twpark@smu.edu Adam Czarnik aczarnik@smu.edu Layout Editors Mena Bahram mbahram@smu.edu Sydney Sagehorn ssagehorn@smu.edu Social Media Coordinator Daniel Jacobs djjacobs@smu.edu Copy Editors Clare Ennis cennis@smu.edu Maria Katsulos mkatsulos@smu.edu Join Join the Hilltopics Staff If you're interested in joining the Hilltopics staff, please send an email to Lorien Melnick at lmelnick@smu.edu or Nicole Kiser at nkiser@smu.edu News and Events Gartner Lecture Series Hilltopics Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share