Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Giving Design Collaborative Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply to Our Master's Program Assistantships and Financial Support Contact Us! SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Planning Financial Aid Financial Aid Graduate Assistantships The Graduate Program in City & Regional Planning offers Graduate Assistantships for students who assist with faculty research and community projects, or who work in placements with nonprofit and local government agencies. Assistantships provide tuition remission in addition to a small monthly stipend. The number of positions available each year depends on University funding as well as external grants and contracts. Assistantships are awarded on a competitive basis. To apply: After completing an application for admission, individuals who would also like to be considered for an assistantship should submit the following material: A statement of 500 words that describes how your specific skill sets, educational background, and past experiences make you qualified for an assistantship and how you will balance the demands of full-time graduate coursework with the responsibilities of an assistantship 2 letters of reference from former professors and/or employers (If reference letters are uploaded with your application for admission, you do not need to send seperate letters for the GA applicaiton.) Deadline: In order to receive full consideration for Graduate Assistantships, applications must be received by April 15. Graduate Assistantship application material should be sent directly to the Graduate Program in City & Regional Planning at the following address or emailed to cityplanning@memphis.edu: Graduate Coordinator City & Regional Planning 107 Browning Hall University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Housing and Community Development Fellowship HCD fellowships are administrated through the School of Urban Affairs & Public Policy. These are graduate assistantships that are funded through a partnership with the City's Division of Housing and Community Development. The fellowship requires 20 hours per week of work with an outside agency (including local government agencies and non-profit community development organizations) in exchange for full tuition remission and a small monthly stipend. These positions are funded separately from our departmental GA positions and require a separate application. Additional information and a link to the online application can be found here. Tuition Savings Program for Students The Academic Common Market is a tuition-savings program for students in the 16 Southern Regional Education Board member states who want to pursue degrees in fields that are not offered by their in-state institutions. These students enroll in out-of-state universities that offer the specialized degree programs, and they pay only the in-state tuition rates. Visit the Academic Common Market for more information. Federal Financial Aid For information about obtaining Federal Financial Aid, including Stafford and Perkins loans, visit the University of Memphis Student Financial Aid homepage. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/7/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.