Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Outreach and Extension We share the fruits of our learning and discovery far and wide for the betterment of our state, nation and world. Built To Serve From day one, we’ve been a university for the people. NC State was founded in 1887 as a land-grant university with a mission of teaching, research and service. We’ve spent over a century giving back to our state and improving the lives of its citizens. It’s what we were made to do. Today, our service mission has blossomed beyond our traditional roots in agriculture and industrial extension to include everything from education to business to global health. So whether you’re a multinational corporation or a home gardener, you can put NC State brainpower to work for you. Bridging Beyond Campus It’s in the DNA of this place — and its people — to find ways to spread our knowledge and support others. Faculty, students and staff here apply what they learn to meet local and global challenges, strengthen the economy and enhance quality of life for all. Our expansive outreach and engagement initiatives connect NC State’s bright minds with the wider world through hands-on field research, extension programs, community service projects and more. Office of Outreach and Engagement NC State’s Office of Outreach and Engagement ensures there’s a two-way conduit between the abundant resources of NC State and the people, businesses and communities we serve and strengthen. Get connected Sharing Our Knowledge NC State research doesn’t go on a shelf. It goes wherever it’s needed. Each day, our faculty deliver their insights directly into the hands of North Carolinians. The NC State Extension program turns science into real-world solutions with programs and partnerships focused on agriculture and food, health and nutrition, and youth development. If you’re growing your agribusiness, raising livestock, monitoring air and water quality, or even trying to breathe life back into a wilting tomato plant, we’ve got you covered. You’ll find 101 county extension centers nestled in communities from the mountains to the coast, and our experts are just a call or an email away. NC State Extension From growing Christmas trees to feeding families, our extension agents are here to offer research-based solutions for any challenge. Homegrown Homegrown, Extension’s online publication, provides trusted knowledge and timely tips from NC State experts across the state. Serving All 100 N.C. Counties NC State Extension reaches out to every corner of our state. Find your local center Supporting Our Community Be a Force for Good NC State’s Office of Student Leadership and Engagement connects students with meaningful ways to give back and grow their skills. Our students are volunteers, activists and leaders — and we equip them with the experience and tools they need to create powerful change in the communities they care about. Whether they’re mentoring young scholars in rural counties, raising dough for UNC Children’s Hospital during the Krispy Kreme Challenge or heading overseas to work on a sustainable farm in Belize, the possibilities — and positive impacts — are endless. Service and Community More Stories NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university's 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.