Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Campus Life Career Services Campus Life Housing Dining Student Activities Parking & Transportation Student Life FAQs Student Resources Career Services College-based Services University Career Services University Career Services (UCS) offers a multitude of services to assist students and alumni on their pathway to success. Explore different majors using assessments and research; Engage with our counselors through one-on-one counseling and skills workshops - ranging from mock interviews, resume critiques, to job hunting. Students and alumni are empowered to investigate their pathways and network with employers to find the right industry for them. We work with companies and organizations to employ our students during career fairs and on-campus recruitment. University Career Services offers a wide range of programs and services that will help you reach your goals, both while you’re at UH and long after. Here’s a sampling: Alumni Career Services Recent graduates have access to our services for free for one semester immediately following graduation. For more seasoned Alumni, there is an Alumni Subscription for purchase to assist with job searches, career changes, or networking opportunities. Alumni can always attend Alumni Career Fairs and workshops at any time during the year at no charge. Career Counseling Cougar Pathway allows students to connect with career counselors and employers through an easy to use appointment scheduler, resume database, on-campus recruiting system, and a job database. Explore Cougar Pathway through access.uh.edu now to complete your profile and get started! On-Campus Recruiting Every semester, top corporations and organizations come to campus to interview students for internships and full-time jobs. UH also participates in several career fairs each semester. It’s a great opportunity to test your interviewing skills, meet potential employers and land a great job. Be sure to mark recruiting events on your calendar. Vocational Assessments Designed to help you identify your personality traits, pinpoint your interests, and clarify your values, vocational assessments assist you in discovering possible career paths and majors. Both self-administered and counselor-assisted assessments are available at UCS. Make an appointment with a counselor to see which assessment is right for you. A nominal fee applies to some assessments. To find out more about these and other services available, contact University Career Services. Related Links University Career Services Home Cougar Pathway University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies