Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home About UW Bothell Mission & vision About UW Bothell Fast Facts 2021-22 Fast Facts 2020-21 Videos Mission & vision Leadership History Visitors Crows on Campus Campus webcam Maps & directions About UW Bothell Mission & vision Mission Statement UW Bothell holds the student-faculty relationship to be paramount. We provide access to excellence in higher education through innovative and creative curricula, interdisciplinary teaching and research, and a dynamic community of multicultural learning. Serve college-age and established adult students, as well as the community at large, by providing access to a premier institution of higher education. Emphasize and develop critical thinking, writing, and information literacy, in order to graduate students with life-long learning skills. Actively recruit and support outstanding faculty scholars with a passion for communication. Build an inclusive and supportive community of learning and incorporate multicultural content and diverse perspectives on ethnic and racial groups, gender, sexual orientation, social class, and special needs. Encourage and support collaborative, interdisciplinary, and cross-program initiatives. Provide quality curricula by making use of the best of educational technology in support of teaching and learning. Attract and support an internationally diverse student body and a nationally recognized faculty and staff. Create and support excellence in student services, academic services such as library, writing center, computing services, and physical facilities. Foster productive relationships with the employment community and promote a strong public service commitment. The University of Washington Bothell is committed to achieving this mission and promotes the on-going review of our outcomes, organizational structures, and processes that support this mission and these goals. Vision Statement The University of Washington Bothell will be a transformational learning community. We will serve as a catalyst to enhance the quality of life throughout our region. Our culture of learning, committed to disciplined inquiry and responsible service, will be woven into our organizational and operational life. We will be noted for discipline-bridging scholarship, valued in the community, and respected in the academy. Our success will attract a highly motivated and diverse student population and a faculty and staff of exceptional ability and dedication. Core Values Three principal values underlie UW Bothell's identity and signature strength as an institution of higher learning. These core values are crucial to the realization of our mission and to the fulfillment of our vision for the future: Transformational Education We have an overriding commitment to providing our students with the best possible university education through challenging programs of study and innovative methods of instruction. We value engaging our students in transformational learning experiences that challenge their expectations, broaden their horizons, and stimulate their ambitions. It is our goal to foster a passion for life-long learning, intellectual engagement, and respectful appreciation for others' perspectives. Engaged Scholarship As scholars and learners, we embrace scholarship that is innovative and rigorous. We encourage intellectual contributions that transcend the boundaries of conventional disciplines and enhance the education of our students. Our scholarship contributes to our region's dynamic economy and enhances the lives of its people. Awareness of and involvement in our community keeps us open, responsive, and responsible. Inclusive Culture Our diverse community promotes understanding and collaboration across disciplines, cultures, and beliefs. All students, staff, and faculty are both learners and teachers mutually engaged in a collective effort. Our entrepreneurial history has taught us that flexibility, responsiveness to change, and respect for multiple viewpoints are essential organizational capabilities. These principles will continue to guide our governance and commitment to the welfare of the whole. Approved by General Faculty Organization March 13,2002 Approved by the Cabinet April 11, 2002 University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us