Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Physics (PhD) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Doctorate College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Physics In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Physics doctoral program offers research opportunities in condensed matter physics, physics of nanostructured devices, surface science, optical physics, complex systems, biophysics, atomic and molecular physics, physics education and planetary/space science. The program intends to provide a broad base in experimental and theoretical physics. The Physics PhD program requires a total of 72 credit hours for completion. A specific set of six required core courses (18 credit hours), thirteen elective courses (39 credit hours, which may include directed research), and a minimum of 15 credit hours of dissertation are part of the 72 hours. Total Credit Hours Required: 72 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree. 42 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Master's Degree. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Planetary Sciences Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Agricultural Research Director Atomic Physics Professor Ballistics Professor Geochemical Manager Geophysical Manager Health Physicist High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Music Director High School Teacher Medical Physicist Molecular Physicist Nuclear Physics Professor Optical Scientist Research Physicist Rheologist Thermodynamic Physicist Thermodynamicist Thermodynamics Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Doctorates Physics (PhD) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Physics (PhD) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Physics doctoral program offers research opportunities in condensed matter physics, physics of nanostructured devices, surface science, optical physics, complex systems, biophysics, atomic and molecular physics, physics education and planetary/space science. The program intends to provide a broad base in experimental and theoretical physics. The Physics PhD program requires a total of 72 credit hours for completion. A specific set of six required core courses (18 credit hours), thirteen elective courses (39 credit hours, which may include directed research), and a minimum of 15 credit hours of dissertation are part of the 72 hours. Total Credit Hours Required: 72 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree. 42 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Master's Degree. Program Prerequisites Students entering the Physics graduate program with regular status are normally expected to have completed course work generally required for a bachelor's degree in physics, including mechanics, electricity and magnetism, thermal and statistical physics, and quantum mechanics. Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. The Physics Subject Test of the GRE is optional. Three letters of recommendation. Statement of goals. The final 1-2 paragraphs of each applicant's personal statement should make explicitly clear which research areas and faculty they have interest in working with within our program. Résumé. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Meeting minimum UCF admission criteria does not guarantee program admission. Final admission is based on evaluation of the applicant's abilities, past performance, recommendations, match of this program and faculty expertise to the applicant's career/academic goals, and the applicant's potential for completing the degree. Application Deadlines Physics PhD *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Nov 15 Nov 15 Dec 1 International Applicants Nov 15 Nov 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida