Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health About Rutgers Serving New Jersey and the World Serving New Jersey and the World Working to Understand and Solve Our Most Pressing Problems Balancing development and open space. Improving K–12 education. Encouraging economic growth. If it concerns New Jersey, it concerns Rutgers. Our small state—our nation in microcosm—has a big impact. We are a testbed for what’s next and what works, and our knowledge and expertise are in demand, respected, and sought-after around the world. 317,000+ More than half of Rutgers' 530,000 alumni live in New Jersey 1.5 Million Tons of food donated to New Jersey food banks 250,000+ Hours of free and low-cost legal services provided by Rutgers Law School Rutgers in New Jersey Communities Community partnerships enrich both Rutgers and New Jersey. Something special happens when area residents and Rutgers students, faculty, and staff come together to explore, educate, enjoy, and engage. Whether it's farmers markets, prekindergarten–12 programs, arts and entertainment, sporting events, job fairs, business opportunities, health and safety, or legal assistance, you'll find Rutgers in New Jersey communities. Rutgers University–New Brunswick Office of Community Affairs Rutgers University–Newark Office of University–Community Partnerships Rutgers University–Camden Civic Engagement Find Rutgers in All 21 New Jersey Counties Part of the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, Rutgers Cooperative Extension offices are in every New Jersey county. They provide essential information and education on everything from improving yields at New Jersey’s farms and fisheries to mosquito control to healthy eating. New Jersey’s iconic county fairs? Most are run by Rutgers Cooperative Extension’s 4-H youth development programs. Rutgers is an original land-grant institution, a special designation awarded by the federal government to a select number of colleges and universities. New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station Rutgers Cooperative Extension Lifelong Learning From sparking confidence and creativity to creating a smarter workforce and building stronger communities, programs at Rutgers serve the full spectrum of learners from ages 4 to 104 with vast options. From the 4-year-old taking up another language, such as Mandarin, to the young adult who wants a Rutgers degree, but closer to home; from the mid-career professional getting a leg-up on the competition to the new retiree who finally has time to dive into art history; a Rutgers education is more than traditional undergraduate and graduate degree programs. Division of Continuing Studies Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at Rutgers University Senior Citizen Audit Program Rutgers Degrees at New Jersey Community Colleges K–12 Pre-College Programs Explore Academics An Economic Engine Rutgers fuels the New Jersey economy—as an employer, as a workforce preparer, as a goods and services purchaser, as a major builder, as a leading health care provider, and as an innovation and idea incubator. Each year, we generate more than $5 billion in economic activity in New Jersey, and for every state dollar we receive, we return $7. We also apply our expertise to helping nations around the world advance their economies. Rutgers: An Economic Engine Partner in Research and Innovation Rutgers research keeps all kinds of enterprises humming in the Garden State and beyond. By connecting organizations with knowledgeable faculty, staff, and students, our partners gain insight to take them to the next level. We’re ready to work with industry, entrepreneurs, small businesses, the public sector, and nonprofits to develop new ideas and products with impact. A Partner in Research and Innovation Rutgers Health Our 1,300 health care providers—physicians, nurses, dentists, psychologists, physical therapists, and many others—devote their lives to promoting healthier communities throughout New Jersey and beyond. Research at Rutgers Rutgers research leads to new ways of thinking and to innovations that meet vital needs, aid industry, generate jobs, and improve the quality of life. Our researchers are at work in New Jersey, across the nation, and on every continent. Rutgers Global Rutgers global engagement takes Rutgers people to every corner of the globe and brings visitors to New Jersey from the majority of the world’s countries. Featured Stories Our people are committed to advancing research, innovation, learning, and service to improve lives. Black Lives Matter Protests Spur Creation of Institute for the Study of Global Racial Justice Rutgers Institute for Health Receives $10M to Study Health and Well-Being in New Jersey Reducing the University’s Carbon Footprint and Helping Manage Climate Change Risk On the Front Lines of New Jersey's Vaccine Campaign Exploring Solutions to COVID-19 Eagleton Science Fellow Makes Impact With COVID Alert NJ App Law Student Forms Nonprofit Coalition to Help Newark Residents Facing Eviction New Jersey Center on Gun Violence Research Launches Studies on Gun Violence and Prevention Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster