SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Engage with an innovative learning culture that is changing the way the world does business. A rigorous curriculum, personalized Customize your learning experience — without sacrificing academic rigor. The Cox School’s unique modular curriculum puts you in the driver's seat with a full roster of courses and electives that ladder up to the career you want. Whether your passion is data analytics or real estate development, you'll dive into your specific areas of interest with innovative Cox-designed offerings. Along with rigorous work in the classroom, you'll be able to take advantage of research opportunities, exchange programs, along a variety of hands-on opportunities. Courses within the module system provide a deeper dive into focused content which allow student to create an a la carte curriculum that meets their personal goals. Tate Greer MBA Candidate 2018 See Programs Hands-on experience The Cox campus is your launchpad, linking you to key business leaders in Dallas and around the world. Get primed to compete as you: Connect with Fortune 500 executives who lead a robust lineup of seminars in the Business Leadership Center. Trek with the Career Center to Wall Street and other business hot spots, where you’ll meet one-on-one with powerful allies for your future. Adventure to Taos, or pursue research in more than 150 programs around the world. I attended over thirty Business Leadership Center seminars... It was great complementary experience that allowed me to attend executive roundtables, listen to insights and learn from local business leaders, which even further increased my motivation to lead, be involved and give back to my community. Inobat Igamberdieva One-Year MBA 2016 World class faculty At SMU Cox, your professors are graduates of the world's leading business schools: Harvard, Stanford, Penn, Northwestern, the University of Chicago, to name a few. They're consultants to global corporations, top practitioners in their fields and widely published researchers investigating leading-edge topics. Cox faculty are passionate teachers who bring new ideas and techniques into the classroom, challenge you to question conventional thinking and inspire you to share their excitement about the issues that drive their work. The MBA program changed my life and helped me transition into a leadership role. Many of our professors were industry practitioners. That was a significant motivating factor for why I chose SMU; our professors integrated their real world experience in the classroom. Bruce Rideaux PMBA 2012 Academic Departments The seven Cox academic departments make up more than a campus—together, they form the proving ground for your future. Whether you major or minor in business, enroll part-time or full, you’ll get a small-school feel with big-city opportunities. Accounting Accounting is the foundation for success in business, no matter your job title. At Cox, you'll get a rigorous education, plus the skills to ride change—and drive it. Learn more Finance Jump-start your finance career with state-of-the art programs taught by superstar Cox faculty. A solid theoretical foundation underpins the essential tools that give you a competitive edge. Learn more Information Technology and Operations Management Data is meaningless if you can't use it to drive decisions. Future-proof your success with ITOM’s progressive curriculum, combining information systems, operations management and business analytics. Learn more Management and Organizations Dare to be disruptive. The Cox M&O department provides you with the skills and the confidence to break molds and succeed--in both startups and legacy corporations. Learn more Marketing Home of the first academic institute for the study of customer engagement and loyalty, the Cox marketing department offers powerful programs that combine the art and science marketing. Learn more Real Estate, Risk Management and Business Law Study in a boom town where real estate is king. Connect with industry leaders, tap into the latest tech, and get hands-on practice, both on-campus and off. Learn more Strategy and Entrepreneurship Choose from 18 custom-designed courses that equip you with the know-how to to launch and manage successful businesses. Innovation drives the department and its Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship. Learn more Research Centers and Institutes The Kitt Trading Center is a state-of-the art simulated trading room, with industry-standard data feeds and financial software, along with an LED stock ticker, three video walls and 12 Bloomberg Professional terminals. Explore Centers & Institutes SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter