Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Baylor>Giving to Baylor>Priorities>Academic Units>Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Diana R. Garland School of Social Work The foundation of social work is service to others. At Baylor’s Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, students have a unique opportunity to combine their faith and passion for service with sound theory and practice to better understand and appropriately engage the world around them. We thank you for your interest in the mission and vision of Baylor University and invite you to make a gift to support student scholarships, faculty research and needs and priorities within the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work today. Center for Church and Community Impact Your support will help the Center for Church and Community Impact strengthen congregations as they engage with their communities at the intersection of faithful witness and community transformation. Drs. Preston and Genie Dyer Endowed Scholarship Your gift, in honor of the Dyers' service and in celebration of 50 years of social work education at Baylor, will help increase much-needed scholarship support for students majoring in social work. Diana R. Garland Endowed Scholarship Your support helps the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work stand in the gap for deserving students who need financial assistance to continue their pursuit of a Baylor education, while also honoring Dr. Diana Garland's 10 years of dedicated service as dean. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Excellence Fund Gifts to this fund help the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work provide hands-on opportunities for students to practice social work, as well as technology updates, classroom equipment, conference attendance and travel and research materials. Global Mission Leadership Initiative Your support helps provide opportunities for international students to join the Global Mission Leadership program so they can earn a master's degree in social work before returning to their home country as agents of change. Houston MSW Excellence Fund The first Houston MSW program launched in fall 2015, extending the Baylor social work program beyond Baylor's Waco campus. Your support will provide needed educational tools and open doors to new opportunities. W.O. Carver Endowed Fund After the closing of the Carver School, Diana and colleagues from Carver developed curriculum for Baylor Social Work, threading the 100-year history of the Carver School into Baylor's rich heritage and ongoing legacy. To celebrate this legacy, a Carver alumna has pledged to match up to $25,000 in gifts, which will support practical application, faculty research and social work students committed to ethically integrating faith and practice. Contact Us To learn more about opportunities to give to the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, contact Heather Deal, Director of Development. Heather Deal Director of Development Heather_Deal@baylor.edu Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Endowed Scholarship College of Arts & Sciences Excellence Fund James Vardaman Endowed Professorship William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Center for Church and Community Impact Drs. Preston and Genie Dyer Endowed Scholarship Diana R. Garland Endowed Scholarship Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Excellence Fund Global Mission Leadership Initiative Houston MSW Excellence Fund W.O. Carver Endowed Fund George W. Truett Theological Seminary Building & Grounds Improvement Fund Dean's Excellence Fund Doctor of Ministry Endowed Scholarship Fund Faith & Sports Institute Fund Friends of Truett Scholarship Fund Truett Alumni Endowed Scholarship Fund Hankamer School of Business HSB Endowed Scholarship Fund HSB Excellence Fund HSB Faculty Development Fund Honors College Baylor Interdisciplinary Core F. Ray Wilson Endowed Scholarship Great Texts Fund Honors College Excellence Fund Honors Program Philanthropy & Public Service Excellence Fund Philanthropy & Generosity Endowed Fund University Scholars Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Baylor University LHSON Missions LHSON Alumni Endowed Scholarship Louise Herrington Endowed Scholarship Fund in Nursing Nursing School Excellence Fund Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Communication Sciences and Disorders Health, Human Performance and Recreation Human Sciences and Design Public Health Excellence Fund Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education Center for Community Learning and Enrichment Center for Developmental Disabilities Curriculum & Instruction Excellence Fund Educational Leadership Excellence Fund Educational Psychology Excellence Fund School of Education Excellence Fund School of Education Endowed Scholarship School of Engineering and Computer Science BUV (Basic Utility Vehicle) Competition Engineering and Computer Science Excellence Fund Engineering Endowed Scholarship Engineers with a Mission SAE Baja Competition School of Music Center for Christian Music Studies Daniel Sternberg Society Golden Wave Band Music Education Excellence Fund School of Music Endowed Scholarship School of Music Excellence Fund University Libraries Baylor Book Society Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Chairs for Bears Dean's Excellence Fund Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Endowed Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Backyard Ecology Hall Ellie Caston Education Enhancement Endowment Martin Museum of Art Excellence Fund Mayborn Museum Excellence Fund Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift