Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Engineering and Computer Science Mechanical Engineering Main Navigation About Degrees Faculty & Staff Resources Contact Us B.S. Degree in Mechanical Engineering Flowchart Increasing Diversity in Engineering And Labor-force (IDEAL) Online Summer Program for 9-12 Grade Students Welcome The Mechanical Engineering program at CSUF provides a foundation for professional engineering careers in private industry and government. Mechanical engineers are employed in a wide range of industries such as manufacturing, transportation, energy, food, and biomedical application. In general, mechanical engineers are involved with the design, research, development, manufacture, distribution, support, maintenance, and recycling of devices and products. Automobiles, airplanes, home appliances (refrigerators, washing machines, dryers, vacuum cleaners, etc.), robots, printers, and computer hard disk drives are some of the various products that have been customarily designed and developed by mechanical engineers. Mechanical engineers possess a firm understanding of science, mathematics and engineering needed to carry out these complex tasks which are so important to a modern technological society. The graduate curriculum is designed to provide a specialized education for career advancement or further work towards a doctoral degree program. Accreditation The Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org Societies American Society of Mechanical Engineers Society of Manufacturing Engineers Graduate Admission To apply to the M.S. in Mechanical Engineering program, submit an application and pay the $55 application fee online at Cal State Apply. Your application will be received faster and therefore processed more quickly if you apply and pay online. Your application cannot be processed until payment has been received. Please visit the ECS Graduate and International Admissions website for more information. This site is maintained by College of Engineering and Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.