Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Faculty Staff Members Graduate Assistants Alumni Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home JRSM People Dr. Thomas Hrach Thomas J. Hrach, Ph.D. Associate Professor Phone 901.678.4779 Email <a href="mailto:thrach@memphis.edu">thrach@memphis.edu</a> Fax Office 308 Meeman Journalism Building Office Hours As posted Website Education Ph.D., Mass Communication, Ohio University M.A., News Journalism, Kent State University B.A., History, University of Michigan About Dr. Thomas J. Hrach Thomas J. Hrach's journalism career includes working as an editor and reporter at The Marietta Times in Marietta, Ohio, for more than 18 years before returning to school in 2005 to pursue his doctorate degree. His passion for journalism started young as an avid newspaper reader in his hometown of Cleveland, Ohio. As a reporter and editor in Ohio, he won several awards for his writing that included reporting on politics, crime, and business. Hrach received his undergraduate degree in history from the University of Michigan in 1985, and he earned a master's degree in news journalism from Kent State University in 1990. While an editor at The Marietta Times he began teaching part-time at a local community college, which lead to a teaching associate position at Ohio University. He completed his doctorate degree in mass communication in 2008. After graduating from Ohio University, he moved with his family to Memphis, Tennessee, where he started his teaching career at the University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 2014, and he currently is the department's graduate coordinator. Hrach researches journalism history with a focus on the 1950s and 1960s. His most recent publication was Beyond the Bounds of Tolerance: Commercial Appeal Editorials and the 1968 Memphis Garbage Strike, which appeared in the spring 2015 edition of Journalism History. He also has research articles published in Journalism History, Newspaper Research Journal and The Tennessee Historical Quarterly. He has contributed articles to two published books - The New Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, and African Americans in the History of Mass Communication. In 2016, the University of Massachusetts Press published his book The Riot Report and the News: How the Kerner Commission Changed Media Coverage of Black America. Hrach teaches journalism history, writing and reporting courses. In May 2014 and May 2016, he was a guest professor at The Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany, as part of an exchange program. He is currently working on his German language skills. As well as teaching, Hrach is the faculty advisor for the U of M student chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists and chair of the Student Publications Board, which oversees The DH.com. His involvement on campus includes the library committee and the athletics advisory committee. For more information, visit his website at tomhrach.wordpress.com. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.