Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Chemistry Menu Main Nav Chemistry Department Chemistry Diversity & Outreach Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Outreach Administration & Services Business Office Registration and Scheduling Assistance Open Positions Contact Giving to Chemistry People Overview Staff Research Faculty Academics Overview Graduate Graduate Admissions Ph.D. Program Financial Assistance Events Information & Resources Graduate Admissions Open House Student Profiles Graduate Student Life Graduate Interest Survey Our Alumni Undergraduate Major Minor Biochemistry Major Core Courses Undergraduate Research Introductory Course Advice Honors Program Scholarships & Awards Study Abroad Career Planning ACS Student Chapter Industrial Recruiting Alumni Our Alumni Postdoctoral Fellows Alumni News Alumni News Request Honors and Awards Fellowships Chemistry Librarian Research Overview Facilities & Instrumentation Mass Spectrometry Magnetic Resonance X-ray Crystallography Computational Cluster Operations & Safety News & Events Close Diversity & Outreach Directory A to Z Listing Search Classics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Chemistry Department Home Academics Graduate Graduate Graduate Admissions Ph.D. Program Financial Assistance Events Information & Resources Graduate Admissions Open House Student Profiles Graduate Student Life Graduate Interest Survey Our Alumni Graduate Welcome to the Boston College Department of Chemistry! We hope you will take this opportunity to learn more about the dynamic research community here at BCC. Recent achievements of the scientists in BCC reflect the exciting research culture we enjoy. In the last year, over 100 research papers were published by BC chemists in internationally recognized journals and the overwhelming majority of the papers were co-authored by our graduate students. Each year, we celebrate the accomplishments of our students with our Graduate Student Research Symposium, a day-long event featuring seminars and poster presentations by our graduate student colleagues. Many of our graduate students have obtained prestigious fellowships, including those sponsored by the American Chemical Society, the Department of Education, the National Institutes of Health the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, NASA and the pharmaceutical/biotech industries. In addition, graduates of BCC have gone on to assume positions of scientific leadership in private industry as well as some of the finest academic institutions in the world. Learning Outcomes Learning outcomes for Boston College graduate students pursuing a Ph.D. degree Learning Outcome I Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of one or more subareas of chemistry. Learning Outcome II Formulate a research hypothesis based on relevant literature and use appropriate research methods to reach conclusions. Learning Outcome III Describe their research findings clearly in publications and presentations for both professional and lay audiences. Learning Outcome IV Be competitive for appropriate positions in industry and academia (e.g., research scientist and post-doctoral fellows). Learning Outcome V Teach courses effectively in the field at the college level. Chemistry Department Graduate Guidelines Get Started Request Info Admissions Information Apply Now Deadline: December 15th Connect Schedule a visit to the Chemistry Department About BC Chemistry Quick Facts 200 scientists studying all phases of contemporary chemical science 120 graduate students 40 undergraduates 20 internationally recognized faculty members Graduate Student Placements Pfizer MIT Purdue University University of Illinois University of Wisconsin University of Calcutta P&G Pharmaceuticals Virginia Tech University of California, Berkeley Los Alamos National Laboratory Peking University University of Pennsylvania University of Cambridge Repligen Perkin-Elmer Northeastern University University of Science and Technology, China More graduate placements Application Information Print Deadlines Regular Decision December 15 Application Form Application Form The due date for the receipt of applications for fall admission is December 15. Applicants can apply online through the Graduate School at the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences admissions office page. Information about fee waivers is located on the Fee tab of that page. Required Courses Required Courses Those normally required for a BS degree in chemistry, biochemistry, or chemical biology. Statement of Purpose Statement of Purpose A Statement of Purpose is required. Include area(s) of research interest (organic, bioorganic, chemical biology, inorganic, theoretical, computational, physical, and biophysical). Additionally, include specific research faculty with whom you are interested in as a future advisor. Letters of Recommendation Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from professors or supervisors. At least one letter must be from an academic source. Transcripts Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be submitted through the online application form for review purposes during the application process, but official copies of all transcripts reviewed for admission must be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation and no later than June 15. Standardized Tests Standardized Tests Graduate Record Examination (GRE): - send official scores with your application materials. The institution number is 3083. GRE Subject Test in Chemistry: GRE Subject Test in Chemistry is recommended, but not required. Interest Survey Interest Survey Please take a few moments to tell us about your search for a Ph.D. program. This will help us provide helpful, relevant and practical information to applicants. Take the 5-question interest survey. Questions concerning the Ph.D. program may be directed to: Ms. Dale L. Mahoney Associate Director of Administration and Graduate Student Services Email Address: chemadmissions@bc.edu 617-552-1735 International Students International Students Evidence of English Proficiency (TOEFL and IELTS): A score of 100 or higher on the TOEFL iBT test or 7.0 on the IELTS test isrequired. For more information, please read the material on the Graduate School Admission Office web site regarding the english proficiency. Back To Top Back To Top Chemistry Department Merkert Center 617-552-3605 Twitter Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Chemistry Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College