skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link Accessibility Services Menu Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at the Libraries Parking and Building Access Resources, Technology, and Facilities Emergency Evacuation Feedback Accessible Parking and Building Access The NC State University Accessibility Map (PDF, 8Mb) shows accessible parking, building entries, walkways, and other information for the entire NC State campus. Except for pay lots, all parking spaces on campus require parking stickers that are issued through the Transportation Department. For more information about accessible parking and permit applications, contact Transportation at 919-515-3424. Jump to: D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Harrye B. Lyons Design Library Natural Resources Library William Rand Kenan, Jr. Library of Veterinary Medicine D. H. Hill Jr. Library View larger map Parking Visitor parking Please call us ahead of your visit so that we can make parking arrangements for you. You can reach Libraries Administration at 919-515-7188. (It's most helpful if you call us a week in advance.) Alternatively, members of the public can use the metered street parking along Hillsborough Street. Unfortunately, none of these spaces is a reserved accessible space. Permit holders There are two accessible parking places in the Patterson Parking Lot near Broughton Dr. and the East Wing of the library. These require "B" campus parking permits. Building Access Hillsborough Street entrance The entrance facing Hillsborough Street is on the ground level (floor 1) and has automatic doors. Brickyard entrance The entrance facing the Brickyard is at the end of an accessible ramp and enters on the basement level (floor G). It has automatic doors. From the Patterson Lot For immediate access, call the Ask Us desk at 919-515-3364, and staff will come open the East door for you. (This entrance is not shown on the map.) To get to the Hillsborough Street entrance: Use the ramp on the east side of the Hill Library to get to the sidewalk, then follow the sidewalk along the north side of the building along Founders Drive (immediately south of Hillsborough Street, running parallel to it; not shown on map). The Hillsborough Street entrance is at the northwest corner of the building. To use the East Door entrance yourself: Individuals with disabilities who need to enter the building from Patterson parking lot can apply for an access card to the east door. This electronic proximity card will temporarily deactivate the lock and alarms. With an access card, you can use push pad to open the doors for unassisted entry. We provide wheelchairs The Ask Us desk on the first floor can provide a wheelchair while you are at Hill Library. Wheelchairs are available near the Hillsborough Street entrance on the first floor and outside the Friends of the Libraries office, first floor, East Wing. Feel free to call ahead so we can meet you at the entrance. Call 919-515-3364. (Information for staff). Back to top James B. Hunt Jr. Library View larger map Parking Visitor Parking There are two accessible spaces on the upper deck of the Poulton Pay Lot on Partners Way directly across the street from the Hunt Library. This pay lot is open to the public.Google Maps directions to Poulton Pay Lot Hourly parking fees apply on weekdays before 5pm in the Poulton Pay Lot. Parking spots are numbered, and there is a pay station that accepts debit and credit cards only (no cash). You can also pay online through ParkMobile. Parking is free after 5pm on weekdays and throughout the weekend. Permit Holders For people with C and CC permits, the nearest parking spaces are in the Partners I Lot, which is off of Partners Way. There are eight accessible parking spaces. Google Maps directions to Partners I Lot People with C permits can also park in the Oval West Parking Deck, which is farther north on Partners Way. Google Maps directions to Oval West Parking Deck Building Access From the Partners Way (west side) There are power-assisted doors operated by a push pad at this entrance. You will enter the building on the first floor. Take the elevator up one floor; the interior entrance to the library is to the right of the elevator. From the Oval (east side) There are power-assisted doors operated by a push pad at this main entrance to the library. You will enter the building on the second floor. Once inside the building, the interior entrance to the library is on the left. We provide wheelchairs Wheelchairs are available near both entrances. On the first floor, wheelchairs are available to the right of the doors to the Auditorium. On the second floor, wheelchairs are available just inside the gates near the Ask Us desk. Ask Us staff can bring a wheelchair to you. Feel free to call ahead so we can meet you at one of the entrances. Call 919-515-7110. (Information for staff.) Back to top Harrye B. Lyons Design Library Parking Visitor Parking Visitors will find accessible parking in the Reynolds Coliseum Deck (201 Jeter Dr., Raleigh, NC 27606 — Google Maps directions to the Coliseum Deck). For parking fees and more information, please visit the NC State University Transportation page for Visitor Parking. Permit Holders “B” permit holders will find accessible parking on Pullen Road between Brooks and Gold Halls, or in the Boney Drive Lot. “C” permit holders will find accessible parking on Dunn Avenue or in the Jeter Drive Bays. “CD” and “RE” permit holders can find accessible parking in the Coliseum Deck. The NC State Accessible Spaces Map shows the location of accessible parking spaces for all of campus. Note that spaces may require “B,” “C,” or other permits in addition to the accessible parking permit. Building Access The Design Library is in Brooks Hall and is accessible via elevator from the ground floor. The elevator is located in Brooks Hall’s north exterior breezeway, east of Kamphoefner Hall, just south of Stinson Drive. The buttons in the elevator do not match up with the building’s floor numbers. Press the first floor button in the elevator to get to the library’s floor (the second floor). The NC State University Accessibility Map (PDF) shows detailed information about the accessibility of buildings and routes. Back to top Natural Resources Library Accessible Parking NC State permit-holders The closest car-accessible parking is on Faucette Drive in the Biltmore South Lot between Jordan and Biltmore Halls, where there are two spaces. There are also three spaces at the east end of Jordan Addition, located near the Morrill Drive intersection. Vehicles parked in these spaces must display both the appropriate NC State permit and a valid state-issued handicapped parking placard or plate. Visitors Visitors with a valid state-issued handicapped parking placard or plate may park in the Coliseum Deck (not shown on map), a gated lot that requires a credit card to enter and for payment upon exit. Accessible spaces for cars and vans are located near the exit. From the parking deck visitors can travel around campus for free on any of the Wolfline buses, which have wheelchair lifts and a kneeling capability to assist those with limited mobility. Visitors needing accessible parking closer to Jordan Hall can inquire about a visitor pass by contacting the Transportation Office. Building Access The Natural Resources Library is temporarily located in Biltmore Hall, Room 3003 during the Jordan Hall renovation. The eastern door of Biltmore Hall (on the side of the building closest to Jordan Hall) has a pushpad, power-assisted door that enters on the first floor. Continue to the end of the hallway and take the elevator to the third floor. Turn left out of the elevator and Room 3003 is around the corner. Visit the CNR’s Accessibility Information page for more information about navigating this building cluster. Back to top William Rand Kenan, Jr. Library of Veterinary Medicine Parking C permit holders and visitors can find accessible spaces in the parking lot opposite the College of Veterinary Medicine (CVM) Main Building, across William Moore Dr. The other lot that has accessible spaces is the Centennial Biomedical Campus Parking Deck, for C & CC permit holders and visitors. An accessible route from both parking areas leads to the CVM Main Building. Visitors must pay for parking at the parking lot's pay station. Parking rates and other information Building access The Veterinary Medicine Library is accessible via an elevator from the main CVM entrance to the lower level for people with mobility limitations or deliveries. Ask the receptionist for access to the elevator Mon-Fri, 8am–5pm. For access during the other hours when the Library is open, please call the library service desk at (919) 513-6218 and a library staff person will provide access to the elevator for you or arrange to deliver requested materials to the main entrance. We apologize for the inconvenience. Back to top Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×