Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Parents and Families You're invested in your student's success, and so are we. We'll help you support their needs, stay connected and become a part of our Wolfpack. Academic and Student Affairs Everything your student needs, all in one place — from academic support to vibrant campus living. Career Development Center From day one, we partner with your student to develop their skills, job prospects and career path. MyPack Portal Your MyPack account helps you stay connected and up to date on communications from NC State. Support for Pack Parents Parents and Families Services curates a list of helpful resources for parents of current and future students. Paying for College Learn about tuition and fees, view your bill or find out if your family may be eligible for financial aid. Student Services Center Explore the academic calendar or course catalog, and learn about billing, grading, registration and more. Parents and Families Services NC State maintains a dedicated office to help you play an active and constructive role in your student’s education. If you have questions or concerns, we can help — or we’ll put you in touch with someone who can. Call: 877-568-5733 (toll-free) Email: ncsuparents@ncsu.edu Visit Parents and Families Services Student take part in Red and White Week Kickoff for Students at Talley. Campus Services We do everything in our power to keep your student safe, healthy and thriving. Explore some of the on-campus resources in place to serve you. Campus Safety Our dedicated police department works to keep your student — and our community — safe. Dining All across campus, your student can access delicious, nutritious dining choices. Housing Our housing options and learning communities help students make this campus their home. Institutional Equity and Diversity We strive to create an NC State where everyone is welcomed, included and supported. New Student Programs Our dedicated office helps new students adapt to university life and find their place in the Wolfpack. Student Health Services If necessary, your student will have access to world-class care from qualified professionals. Student Leadership and Engagement We connect each student with leadership, engagement and involvement opportunities. Wellness and Recreation NC State offers a wealth of activities, programs and facilities to keep your student thriving. Wolfpack Outfitters From textbooks and computers to gifts and graduation regalia, we’ve got you covered. #2 Best College for Your Money in North Carolina NC State is one of the smartest investments around, according to Money magazine. See more rankings and facts NC State News More Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Anticipating stress related to elections can affect your emotional well-being before anything has even happened. Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Many members of DELTA’s staff have worked tirelessly to make the course a success for incoming first-year and transfer students. Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Professor Bob Franks says he looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent leader. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.