Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Quantum Everything In Focus Quantum Everything Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Quantum Everything The word “quantum” can cause shrugs in even highly educated shoulders, but with a “discrete quantity” of knowledge, quantum physics, and the technologies based on it, can be illuminated for everyone. Let’s start with the theory There once was a classical theory Of which quantum disciples were leery. They said, “Why spend so long On a theory that’s wrong?” Well, it works for your everyday query! Read more physics limericks In science’s ongoing effort to describe everything, there have always been small, troublesome gaps. There is classical mechanics It describes so much of our everyday world, but can’t always accurately describe the very big or the very small. Learn about the Harvard Art Museums’ portrait of Sir Isaac Newton There are the theories of relativity They describe so much about the universe, from gravity to time, but can’t always accurately describe the smallest scales. Take the free online course “The Einstein Revolution” There is quantum mechanics It describes the atomic and subatomic scales, like photons and electrons, but begins to raise philosophical problems at the human scale. Read about Roy Glauber’s Nobel Prize winning work with photons Learn from the experts The short answer What is quantum physics? Students and faculty from across Harvard explain the basics of quantum physics and why it’s so important. Learn about Harvard’s Conceptual Foundations of Quantum Mechanics course The long answer How does it work (and not work)? “Quantum physics works phenomenally well. By almost any measure it is the most successful scientific theory of all time … but, there is a problem,” says science reporter and astrophysicist Adam Becker. Watch the Harvard Science Book Talk But Neils Bohr, what is it good for? Nobel Prize winning quantum thought leader Neils Bohr could not have imagined the amazing applications that quantum physics is making possible. Read about Harvard’s innovations in quantum science A nano-optic endoscope that uses a metalens could play a major role in lung cancer diagnosis. Better lenses Lenses and filters are created using techniques that—while refined—have been largely unchanged for centuries. Metalenses manipulate light at the microscopic level, offering compactness and new functionality that isn’t possible with traditional lenses and filters. Learn more about the work of Harvard’s Capasso Group Better credit cards Researchers created a material that can do many of the things a magnetic strip can do, but without the need for the often-fragile magnetic force. Learn more about this new quantum state Better diagnostics A process used to find and identify small molecules in biological samples such as blood and urine can struggle to identify molecules that haven’t been catalogued already—the vast majority of them. So medical researchers and quantum scientists collaborated on a new algorithm for this process that draws from both quantum computing and classical machine learning. Learn more about the work of Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School Better computers Imagine an un-hackable communications system that could make data breaches a thing of the past. Quantum computing will usher in game-changing innovations in health care, infrastructure, security, drug development, climate-change prediction, machine learning, financial services, and more. Are you ready for the quantum computing revolution? We’ve helped advance quantum science a bit A qubit to be more specific. The quantum bit is the fundamental unit for quantum computing, and is encoded in a physical system, like the spin of an electron or an atom’s energy state. Each qubit increases the complexity of problem the computer can solve exponentially. So, while something like the 16-bit Super Nintendo was twice as powerful as the 8-bit NES, a 51-qubit computer can solve problems 200 trillion times more complicated than a 3-qubit computer. Learn more about this new type of computing 2010 Harvard researchers demonstrate one way qubits can communicate over great distances. 2012 Scientists demonstrate two qubits interacting with each other in a process known as entanglement. 2012 Information is stored in qubits for nearly two seconds. 2017 Harvard researchers create a quantum system with more than 50 qubits. 2018 Two atoms are combined for the first time into a dipolar molecule, a new type of qubit. 2018 The Harvard Quantum Initiative launches. 2019 A new material paves the way for more stable quantum computing. 2021 A programmable quantum simulator is created, which is capable of operating with 256 qubits. 2021 Harvard launches one of the world’s first Ph.D. programs in quantum science and engineering. 2022 Researchers use a new material at the border of chemistry and quantum physics to enable vast improvements in information storage. Making quantum computers a commercial reality Can a startup take quantum computers from the lab to the world? Learn more from the Harvard Business Review podcast Fun with physics Learn more Learn quantum sign language A collaboration between the Center for Integrated Quantum Materials and The Learning Center for the Deaf is developing quantum-related topics in American Sign Language. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Quantum quiz Are you as smart as a Harvard quantum scientist? What happens when matter approaches absolute zero? Select oneClass is cancelledThe Charles River freezesIt exhibits quantum effects Correct! Those quantum effects include Bose–Einstein condensate, superconductivity, and superfluidity. Probably true, but this is a page about quantum physics, so think quantum. What do ice cream and quarks have in common? Select oneThey both go on sale in the summerThey can both be a reward for good gradesThey both come in a variety of flavors Correct! The Standard Model, which describes elementary particles, contains six flavors of quarks: up (u), down (d), strange (s), charm (c), bottom (b), and top (t). Keep trying. What common technologies utilize quantum science? Select all that applyMRI machinesLED lightsSmoke detectors Correct! The titular "magnetic resonance" is actually a quantum mechanical resonant effect that appears when a magnetic dipole, a static magnetic field, and an oscillating electromagnetic field interact. Correct! Some smoke detectors take advantage of quantum tunneling. They use a small amount of radioactive americium, from which alpha particles “tunnel” out toward a detector at a predictable rate. Smoke interrupts this process, causing the detector to go off. Correct! Quantum mechanics has been used to understand how electrons behave as they pass through different crystalline materials, which led to the discovery of LEDs which give off different colors of light. __________________________________________________ Get entangled in a Harvard classroom Explore our recorded lectures and talks on the world of quantum science. Learn about our Ph.D. program in Quantum Science and Engineering The world of quantum materials Relativity, quantum physics, and graphene Making sense of the quantum revolution Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00