Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Student Guide Financing Your Education Financing Your Education The Office of Financial Aid implements school policies relating to graduate financial aid. The staff supplies students with information on funding from Columbia or outside sources, calculating financial need, and the allocation of available funds for both incoming and continuing students. Staff members help students and departments understand the financial aid programs. This office is also responsible for the administration of many external awards made by outside agencies as well as for the processing of all federal loan and Work-Study applications. Please find a list of financial aid resources below. Key Contacts Office of Financial Aid Columbia University 107 Low Library, MC 4304 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-3808 [email protected] Please see here for GSAS Office of Financial Aid Contacts by academic department. Financial Aid Toolkit Resources Cost of Attendance The following is the estimated cost of attendance for the 2021-2022 academic year. Billing and Payments Students are billed for tuition, fees, and other charges at the start of each term. Six-Step Guide to Applying for US Federal Loans In order to receive a US federal loan, a student must be a US citizen or an eligible non-citizen. Financing Information for MA Students Scholarship funding opportunities for MA students are limited, but there are various potential financing options. Student Employment Students who wish to work while they study at GSAS may pursue work-study or non-work-study positions. Loan FAQs This article will help you navigate obtaining education financing through loans. Yellow Ribbon Program Significant financial aid is on offer to students and their dependents who served in the US Armed Forces on or after September 11, 2001. Tax Information for Students Not constituting tax advice, this is general information for students on where and how they are subject to taxation. Tax Information for International Students Learn about the tax rules that apply to international graduate students. Forms for Students Download forms related to student affairs and financial aid. Fellowships Fellowship Information for Doctoral Students Fellowships are awarded for demonstrated academic merit in recognition of academic achievement and in expectation of scholarly success. Internal Fellowships The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences administers a number of fellowships internally. External Fellowships Applying for external fellowships can aid both in clarifying the aims of a research project and in the cultivation of grant-writing skills. Upcoming Fellowship and Award Opportunities Return to this page regularly to view upcoming opportunities, deadlines, and eligibility information. Summer Funding Opportunities This page contains a sample of summer funding opportunities for graduate students. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close