Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Penn Provost Education Division Secondary Nav Penn GSC Visit the Center Support Our Work Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn GSC About Navigating the Academy Graduate Life Resources Spaces Events Drawer Menu Penn GSC About Explore Back to main menu Grad Center Team Explore Back to main menu Join Our Team Your Space on Campus Explore Back to main menu Accessibility Grad Center Spaces Reserve a Room Mission and Vision Engage with Us Grad Center Advising and Support Penn Grad News Penn Grad Blog Explore Back to main menu About & Submissions Navigating the Academy Explore Back to main menu Academic Writing Programs Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Boot Camp Explore Back to main menu Virtual Dissertation Boot Camp Writing Groups Writers Rooms and Retreats Thesis and Dissertation Explore Back to main menu Penn 3MT Grants and Fellowships Explore Back to main menu Highlighted Opportunities Explore Back to main menu Predoctoral Fellowships for Excellence Through Diversity Fontaine Society Explore Back to main menu About the Fontaine Society Fontaine Fellows Explore Back to main menu Resources for Current Fellows Fontaine News Teaching and Mentoring Resources & Support Graduate Life Explore Back to main menu Language Programs Community Impact Fund Graduate Leadership Awards Peer Accountability Groups Resources Explore Back to main menu Spring 2022 Information & Resources Explore Back to main menu Fall 2021 Graduate Spaces Transit Interruption Information New Student Resources Explore Back to main menu New Student Orientation Hub New Student Checklist For International Students Online Sessions for New Students Academic Policies and Support Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Funding & Finances Explore Back to main menu Insurance Grants for PhD Students Graduate Emergency Fund Student Wellness & Engagement Explore Back to main menu Campus Activities Graduate Student Groups Conduct and Safety Living in Philadelphia Student Accounts & Technology Spaces Events Visit the Center Support Our Work Search Group Created with Sketch. A Guide to Thriving at Penn Resources and Support Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn GSC About Explore Back to main menu Grad Center Team Explore Back to main menu Join Our Team Your Space on Campus Explore Back to main menu Accessibility Grad Center Spaces Reserve a Room Mission and Vision Engage with Us Grad Center Advising and Support Penn Grad News Penn Grad Blog Explore Back to main menu About & Submissions Navigating the Academy Explore Back to main menu Academic Writing Programs Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Boot Camp Explore Back to main menu Virtual Dissertation Boot Camp Writing Groups Writers Rooms and Retreats Thesis and Dissertation Explore Back to main menu Penn 3MT Grants and Fellowships Explore Back to main menu Highlighted Opportunities Explore Back to main menu Predoctoral Fellowships for Excellence Through Diversity Fontaine Society Explore Back to main menu About the Fontaine Society Fontaine Fellows Explore Back to main menu Resources for Current Fellows Fontaine News Teaching and Mentoring Resources & Support Graduate Life Explore Back to main menu Language Programs Community Impact Fund Graduate Leadership Awards Peer Accountability Groups Resources Explore Back to main menu Spring 2022 Information & Resources Explore Back to main menu Fall 2021 Graduate Spaces Transit Interruption Information New Student Resources Explore Back to main menu New Student Orientation Hub New Student Checklist For International Students Online Sessions for New Students Academic Policies and Support Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Funding & Finances Explore Back to main menu Insurance Grants for PhD Students Graduate Emergency Fund Student Wellness & Engagement Explore Back to main menu Campus Activities Graduate Student Groups Conduct and Safety Living in Philadelphia Student Accounts & Technology Spaces Events Visit the Center Support Our Work Penn provides a wide range of resources designed to enrich your graduate experience and support the many different dimensions of your wellness, including emotional, physical, social, spiritual, and financial. See these and other resources to help you thrive in graduate school below. Spring 2022 Information and Resources The Grad Center is committed to supporting all graduate and professional students and is working with campus partners to provide resources and opportunities for engagement to help you stay connected and academically throughout your time at Penn. As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, the University will continue to adapt policies and practices in response to public health conditions and guidance. Visit our Spring 2022 Information page for official information, updates, and resources available to you as we continue to transition to a more normal on-campus experience during the fall semester. Spring 2022 Information New & Incoming Students Welcome to Penn! The Grad Center is committed to helping new graduate and professional students as they transition to life at Penn. Explore the resources below to learn more. Graduate Orientation Hub Page Resources for New Students Incoming Student Checklist & FAQ Living in Philadelphia Student Wellness & Engagement The Graduate Student Center believes that student health and well-being are at the center of academic and personal success. We encourage you to become involved within the Penn and Philadelphia community and to connect with resources on campus if you need guidance or support. Wellness and Engagement Resources Graduate Life Programs Campus Conduct and Safety Academic Policies and Support It's integral that you feel academically supported; Penn fosters such wellness by promoting academic growth and encouraging career development. Academic Policies and Support Academic and Intellectual Programs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources We hope that all graduate and professional students at Penn are able to take advantage of the many activities and resources available to them. In addition to the general resources and programs listed on our site, Penn offers a number of programs and resources to foster inclusion, equity, and intellectual growth for graduate students. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Resources Diversity at Penn Funding and Finances Pursuing a graduate or professional degree is an important investment in your future and can also be a significant investment of your time and money. Whether you're living on a budget or relying on external funding, the financial decisions you make during graduate school can have an impact for years to come. Our Graduate Funding and Finances page provides information and resources to help you identify funding opportunities and make more informed financial decisions as you pursue your degree. Funding for student organizations and events can be found on our Graduate Student Groups page. Help and Support Need Assistance? The Graduate Student Center is here to help you navigate the many resources at the University. Any graduate or professional student experiencing an issue or unsure where to turn can contact us for guidance. Dr. Meredith Wooten, the Grad Center's director, is available to meet with students individually by appointment. The University's HELP Line 215-898-HELP (4357) is a 24-hour-a-day phone number for members of the Penn community who are seeking time sensitive help in navigating Penn’s resources for health and wellness. Safety and Campus Conduct Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Reporting Concerns and Incidents Physical and Emotional Wellness Looking for something not in the guide? Ask us! Graduate Student Center University of Pennsylvania 3615 Locust Walk Philadelphia PA 19104 215-746-6868 gradcenter@upenn.edu Stay connected with updates from the Grad Center! Newsletter sign-up: Footer Menu Valuing Graduate Students Contact Us Site Credits Accessibility