Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today AN ELEVATED EDUCATION “Man’s flight through life is sustained by the power of his knowledge.” Austin “Dusty” Miller At the U.S. Air Force Academy, we know tomorrow is unknown. The 21st century is being shaped by rapidly changing technology, the shrinking of natural resources, and the next large leap into outer space. So we don’t sit back and learn, we lean forward and pursue. We ask the tough questions, and do the hard work. Want to launch a satellite? Tackle global pollution? Harness the power of artificial intelligence? Tomorrow starts here. The future challenges of air, space, and cyberspace demand agile thinkers, creative problem-solvers, and confident decision makers. A robust core curriculum will give you a breadth of knowledge in science, engineering, technology, and math, complemented by the arts and humanities. Deepen your expertise with 32 majors and 14 minors options. Solve real-world problems alongside exceptional faculty members in one of 24 research centers, like our Human Performance or Aeronautics Lab. Jump out of airplanes, learn a language, see the world, all before you even begin a career in the Air Force or Space Force. In This Section: Core Curriculum Outcomes Departments Majors & Minors Academic Calendar Registrar IT Services Faculty & Staff In-processing ACADEMICS OVERVIEW A Note From the Dean “Welcome to your United States Air Force Academy, where you will receive a world-class education! We are thrilled to deliver a curriculum that will lay a foundation for your intellectual development and benefit you in the Air Force, Space Force, and beyond. Our academic program will benefit you as citizens of our nation, as members of the profession of arms, and as Air and Space warriors. Our liberal education balances Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics with the humanities and social sciences. The value of the Air Force Academy experience lives in the intersection of this liberal education with attributes developed through athletic competition and the military ethos cultivated through your experiences in the cadet wing. Our faculty will fuel your intellectual curiosity and lay a foundation for lifelong learning. As you consider your options, consult with your academic advisor and your instructors to create a program that will prepare you for the rest of your career and beyond. The faculty and staff are committed to your development as cadets and officers, students and scholars. Our goal is to create an inspiring learning environment that fosters innovative thinking, research, and development.” Brig. Gen. Linell Letendre Dean of the Faculty, U.S. Air Force Academy AT A GLANCE ACADEMIC FACTS #3U.S. News Top Public School #6Forbes Top 25 STEM Colleges #1Funded Undergraduate Research University Watch The Academic Experience × CADET RESOURCES Academic Calendar Accreditation Core Curriculum Course of Instruction Handbook (PDF) Grading Departments Majors & Minors International Education Programs Service Academy Exchange Program Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar FACULTY RESOURCES Center for Educational Innovation Information Technology Services Faculty & Staff In-processing For information about other programs that support current Academy cadets—like the Scholar’s Program and Summer Programs—download the Course of Instruction Handbook. The Academy’s Bachelor of Science degree is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC). Explore More Departments Majors & Minors Core Curriculum Academic Calendar ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.