COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Human Resource Management, Minor MinorHuman Resource Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management A minor in human resource management from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will familiarize you with the processes organizations use in the hiring and training of employees, performance appraisal and compensation. This minor is a valuable addition to business and non-business majors—and is useful in a wide range of careers. Learn how human resource management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. In addition, the minor has different requirements for business students and non-business majors. Admission requirements Inside the Program High-tech trading center brings Stock Market to life There's a big difference between listening to a finance professor talk about how markets work and being able to see those markets work in real time. The Koch Global Trading Center in Clinton Hall allows you to participate in real-time financial simulations based on the Stock Market. The center features a 60-foot long digital financial ticker that displays live market data. You'll be prepared with the knowledge and skills to immediately enter the workforce upon graduation. Curriculum To complete the minor, you will take 15 credit hours of upper-division business courses. Course offerings range from HR fundamentals and employment law to building effective work teams and negotiation. View the curriculum Careers A business degree in human resource management from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills needed for a variety of high-paying human-resource careers in settings such as: Local, national and international companies Professional, scientific and technical services Manufacturing and government Health care and social assistance Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Human Resource Management Management Psychology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©