Business Engagement Talent Interns Career Fairs On Campus Interviews On Site Networking Research CyBiz Lab Capstone Projects President’s Initiative Grad Students & Post Docs Collaborative Research Professors as Advisors Corporate Engagement/Branding Guest Lecture Speaking Gigs Program Curriculum Advisors Advisory Boards Industry Associations & Consortia Sponsorships CyBiz Lab Specialized Equipment & Spaces Fee for Service Mitigate Risk & Liability Labs & Staff Prototyping or 3D Printing Visualization Philanthropy Scholarship & Leadership Programs Mentor Network Seed Network Naming Specialized Resources America’s SBDC Iowa Center For Industrial Research And Service (Ciras) America’s Cultivation Corridor CyBiz Lab ISU I-Corps Site KEY PROGRAM DATES ISU Office of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer ISU Pappajohn Center For Entrepreneurship ISU Research Foundation ISU Research Park ISU Startup Factory Regents Innovation Fund Proposals News & Events News Events Featured Stories About Contact Select Page Specialized Resources EDIR offers an extensive list of specialized resources and spaces for organizations to access. From high-tech equipment to personalized business mentoring to building space, everything your business needs is easily accessed through the EDIR office. EDIR Units AMERICA’S SBDC IOWA America’s SBDC Iowa provides no cost, customized, confidential business advice and resources to businesses located in all 99 Iowa counties through 15 Regional Centers. SBDC advice and resources cover business planning, financing options, cash flow projections, business growth, succession planning, and market research along with affordable workshops that teach practical skills and techniques for starting and running a business. CENTER FOR INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND SERVICE The Center for Industrial Research and Service (CIRAS) serves Iowa companies in five main areas: Growth, Leadership, Productivity, Technology, and Workforce. Our projects with companies have generated an economic impact of more than $2.5 billion over the past five years. ISU I-CORPS SITE I-Corps sites act as a training ground for faculty, postdoctoral and graduate students to transition their ideas from the laboratory to the marketplace. Researchers will learn how to increase the impact of their research by exploring the commercial potential of their research and technology. In addition, the program will strengthen the university’s entrepreneurship programs. ISU OFFICE OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECH TRANSFER The Office of Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer (OIPTT), in conjunction with the Iowa State University Research Foundation, Inc. (ISURF) facilitates this process on behalf of Iowa State and the employees and students who create the intellectual property (IP). ISU PAPPAJOHN CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP Whether the undertaking is a student initiated enterprise, a new small business, a high technology start-up, or a corporate spin-off, the Pappajohn Center provides assistance and resources to aid the development process and support the entire launch of a new venture. ISU RESEARCH FOUNDATION During research and other academic endeavors, faculty, staff, and students often make new discoveries, invent novel technologies, author creative works. Such discoveries, inventions, creations, and similar works have value and are known as intellectual property. As you perhaps know, ISURF has the resources to protect and enhance the value of this property. ISU RESEARCH PARK Iowa State University Research Park is a 400+ acre development with more than 800,000 square feet of current building space. We connect tenants with resources they need to profit from their research, including facilities, expertise, technology, financing, recruiting and more. ISU STARTUP FACTORY Iowa State University Economic Development and Industry Relations provides an avenue for students, faculty and staff to create businesses. The ISU Startup Factory is a 52-week intensive program housed at the Iowa State University Research Park. Co-located Partners AMERICA’S CULTIVATION CORRIDOR America’s Cultivation Corridor, located in Iowa, is where industry leaders from around the globe come to support and sustain the science that feeds the world. CYBIZ LAB The Iowa State University CyBIZ Lab provides the opportunity for cross functional teams of undergraduate and graduate students to work on business and organizational projects. Copyright 2022 Economic Development & Industry Relations