COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Junior Alia Michaelis from Andover is studying biochemistry on her journey to becoming a physician. Alia, who is a Shocker cheerleader, is working as a medical scribe in Wichita to help her prepare for her future career. May 23, 2022Pre-medpublic health sciencesBiochemistryApplied LearningTalent PipelinestudentsspanishFairmount College of Liberal Arts and SciencesCollege of Health Professions Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis By Sara Ornelas, Marketing Content Strategist Alia Michaelis is working in several Wichita-area hospital emergency rooms to record patient-physician interactions. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare her for a career in medicine. More than 5,000 Shockers each year take what they’ve learned in the classroom and transfer that knowledge into real-world environments. Applied learning — which is required for every Wichita State student — happens in offices, factories, laboratories, nonprofits, industries and companies across the globe. Students work side-by-side with seasoned professionals to ensure that they’re fully prepared to make meaningful contributions to their employers and their communities when they graduate. Hometown Andover, Kansas Major Biochemistry with minors in public health and Spanish Year Junior What is your job title, the company you work for, and your duties during your applied learning experience? I am an emergency medical scribe at the major Ascension hospitals in the area, including Saint Francis, Saint Joseph and Saint Teresa; and I am employed by Vituity. My job consists of working closely with emergency physicians and midlevel providers by documenting all patient-physician interactions in the emergency department. How long do you expect to work in your current position? I have been employed by Vituity for around one year, and I plan to continue working for them until I get accepted into medical school. How did you learn about this opportunity? I had a few older pre-medical classmates who had worked for Vituity in the past, and they told me what a great learning experience it was when I was looking for a paid clinical-experience opportunity. How is this experience helping you build your resume and prepare you for your career? The amount of on-the-job learning that I am doing is incredible, as I can learn from the doctors with whom I work and who love to teach everything and anything about medicine. For medical school applications, clinical experience is a requirement, and I definitely feel as though I am getting great clinical experience in my current position. How have your classes and experiences at Wichita State prepared you to succeed in this applied-learning opportunity? My biology classes at WSU serve as the launching point for how the entire body works and how this impacts the medical care that is provided to the patients we see. The pre-medical advising and Pre-Medical Student Association have also been a huge help in providing guidance and direction regarding the pre-medical path, especially to people who have no familial connections to medicine, like me. What advice would you give other students who are looking for hands-on experiences in their major while they finish college? Do not be afraid to get involved with pre-professional clubs and advising even if you think you have everything figured out. You can always learn of new opportunities and make new connections from those who have come before you. Biochemistry The Wichita State Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry strives to provide an inclusive, quality educational experience for students across all disciplines at WSU. This mission includes applied learning experiences relevant to regional and national needs. The department awards bachelor’s degrees in pre-medicine, biochemistry and chemistry along with master’s and doctoral degrees. Learn more about biochemistry at Wichita State Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©