Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Department of Music and Theatre Search form Search Donate Main menu Main Menu Home About Welcome Music ensembles Theatre History Facilities Forms Contact Visitors Special Interests Future Students Info Apply Music Theory Placement Exam Scholarships Academics Advising Courses Music major requirements Music Minors Performing Arts/Theatre major requirements Performing Arts/Theatre minor Health and Safety for the Music Student Music Ensembles Orchestra Bands Choirs Music divisions Ames Piano Quartet Musica Antiqua Theatre Current Theatre season Theatre auditions Theatre production history Theatre degree requirements People Faculty/Staff Student Focus Alumni Highlights Events Secondary menu Orchestra Bands Choirs Music divisions Ames Piano Quartet Musica Antiqua You are here Home » Music Ensembles Symphony Orchestra Home About Get Involved Performances Scholarships Audition Information Symphony Orchestra Ensemble Welcome to the Iowa State University Orchestra Program homepage! April 24, 2021: Symphony of Diversity 2021 program Orchestras at Iowa State have a long tradition of excellence, and the ISU Orchestra Program continues this tradition by presenting exciting, intellectually stimulating and emotionally moving concerts every year. Please check back for updates concerning the 2020-2021 season. As we do every year, the ISU Symphony will showcase some of the best student musicians on campus during its annual Concert of Soloists. The ISU Orchestra Program is social! The ISU Symphony is on Facebook and Twitter. Check out the links and take a look at clips from our past performances! Now that you can watch us, be sure to like us, and follow us too! We are excited about the musical and educational opportunities this year and hope you will join us either as a member of our orchestras or as a member of our audience. Please explore our newly updated site to find out more about upcoming concerts, how to join the orchestra, scholarship opportunities, and additional ways you can be a part of the amazing work these students do. Thank you for your continued support! For more information, email Dr. Govias at jgovias@iastate.edu Category: Music Tags: ensembles symphony orchestra Department of Music and Theatre Music Administrative Office: 515-294-3831 phone 515-294-6409 fax musicinfo@iastate.edu Theatre Administrative Office: 515-294-2624 isutheatre@iastate.edu ISU Department of Music and Theatre 149 Simon Estes Music Hall 2427 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011 Facebook Twitter Site Index Site map Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility