Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit Take a Tour Explore Campus Explore South Bend About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Visit Welcome to Notre Dame The Golden Dome is only part of the experience. Home › Visit The University hosts visitors year-round for conferences, competitions, athletic events, and prospective student visits. In every instance, we hope the pride we have in this place is on display in everyone who greets our guests on campus. Athletics and Special Events ND Gameday has information on visiting campus for Fighting Irish sporting events and special events. Go Irish! University Events Jun 1 Reunion 2022: Golden is Thy Fame Celebration Wed, Jun 1 Jun 3 [Title Change] Conversation — "ND Explores STEM: Healthcare" Fri, Jun 3 at 2:00 pm Jun 4 Forum on Systemic Inclusion Sat, Jun 4 at 10:00 am Jun 4 Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Sat, Jun 4 at 2:00 pm View all events Getting Here By Air South Bend International Airport is about 15 minutes by car from the Notre Dame campus (flights should be booked to South Bend, Indiana -- airport code SBN). Various transportation methods are available (e.g., taxi, rental car, limo). Visitors also can fly into Chicago then drive or take a bus to Notre Dame. The University is about two hours by car from Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport and about 90 minutes from Midway International Airport. By Train The South Shore Line trains run directly from the Chicago Loop (at the corner of Michigan and Randolph) to South Bend International Airport (about a three-hour trip). From the airport, the Notre Dame campus is approximately a 15-minute ride by car. Various transportation methods are available (e.g., taxi, rental car, limo). Conferences and Accommodations Experience Notre Dame provides clients assistance with everything from conferences and meetings to weddings and special Notre Dame experiences. Services include venue bookings, event planning, registration assistance, personalized consulting, on-site event support, and more. In addition, Morris Inn provides guests with unparalleled comfort right in the heart of campus. The Inn is a AAA 4-Diamond Hotel, placing it in the top five percent of hotels in the U.S. Since its opening in 1952 and extensive renovation in 2013, Morris Inn continues to be the “living room of the University.” Eck Visitors Center 100 Eck Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 (574) 631-5726 Undergrad Admissions Office McKenna Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 (574) 631-7505 ND Mobile App Download for Apple Download for Android Campus Map Online Downloadable PDF (501 KB) Related: Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Alumni Association GameDay Parking Information Take a Tour Explore Campus Explore South Bend Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit