COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Functional Aging, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateFunctional Aging All Programs College of Applied Studies Human Performance Studies The graduate certificate in functional aging from Wichita State provides knowledge and training for those working in the field of aging. You'll learn the skills needed to assist older adults in retaining sufficient levels of functional ability—and you'll gain an understanding of the physiologic changes that occur with aging and how they impact quality of life. Learn how Functional Aging is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum The program consists of 12 credit hours of coursework selected from the departments of communication sciences and disorders, human performance studies and psychology. Students must receive approval to enter this certificate program from their graduate advisor and the certificate in functional aging faculty committee. To initiate the application process, candidates must provide a completed application form and a one-page statement to the certificate in functional aging faculty committee explaining the student’s purpose and interest in obtaining the certificate in functional aging, as well as his or her career plans. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program Students lead exercise program for older adults Highly trained graduate, practicum and undergraduate internship students are leading a new exercise program aimed at older adults. The Well-Rounded Exercise Program is an evidence-based, progressive class taught in 10 Wichita-area locations. It was developed by Nicole L. Rogers, chairwoman of WSU's Department of Public Health Sciences. Similar Programs Aging Studies (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©