Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs Apply to Our Program Apply to our Program Welcome prospective students! For admission to the Fall professional degree programs (AuD and MA) in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, students are required to use a centralized application service known as the Communication Sciences & Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS). All applications will be reviewed only through CSDCAS. Please note that admission for the professional degree programs occurs only in the fall term each year. All application materials for the professional degree programs (including academic transcripts, official Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores, 3 letters of recommendation, personal essays, analysis essay, and video uplink) must be received and verified by CSDCAS by February 1st for the following Fall admissions class. For links to the application sites and specific details about the application process for the Master's degree in Speech-Language Pathology or the Doctor of Audiology degree, click the link below: AuD Professional Degree Program AuD-PhD Dual Program MA Professional Degree Program Applications will be accepted throughout the year for the PhD program, however, applications submitted by February 1 will be considered for funding for the following Fall semester.. For specific details about the application process for the PhD in Communication Sciences and Disorders, click the link below: Ph.D. in Communication Sciences and Disorders Notice about Professional Licensure You are applying for admission to a program that may lead to professional licensure. The following questions relate to your potential ability to receive licensure. Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime(s) other than minor traffic offenses? Yes No Have you ever been denied licensure for the profession for which you might apply for licensure or had discipline imposed by another state's licensing board? Yes No Have you ever had a civil suit judgment entered against you or entered into an adverse civil settlement? Yes No If you answered "yes" to any of the questions above, it is possible that you may be denied licensure at the conclusion of the degree program to which you are applying. Please review the licensure requirements specific to the discipline by contacting the specific licensing board. It is your responsibility to understand the criteria necessary for licensure and to ensure compliance with those criteria. If you have any questions about the licensure requirements and your ability to be licensed, please contact Ms. Marilyn Wark for Speech Language Pathology and Dr. Jennifer Taylor for Audiology. Also, you should be aware that criminal convictions may make you ineligible to participate in any clinical experiences included in your program, therefore necessitating your removal from the program and/or impacting your ability to successfully complete course and program requirements. Your signature on your CSDCAS application shall serve as your acknowledgment that you are aware of the potential impact if you answer yes to any of the questions above, that you have conducted due diligence in determining your potential eligibility for licensure, and that you are aware that certain factors may prevent your eligibility for licensure. Tours In order to protect the health of prospective students and our faculty and staff, we are offering a limited number of in-person tours that will be capped at no more than 5 participants. There will be 2 in-person tours available on each of the following dates: September 25 October 30 November 20 December 11 The first tour will start at 11 a.m. and will meet in the building lobby. The second tour will start at 11:45 a.m. in Community Health Building, Room 2009. For those who are not able to attend an in-person tour, we are offering Virtual Open Houses of the program that will feature an opportunity to learn about the admissions process and speak with current faculty and students. There is no cap on participants for the Virtual Open Houses. All Virtual Open Houses for Fall 2020 will start at 1:00 p.m. (CST). They will be held on the following dates: September 11 October 16 November 6 December 4 Please email us to reserve your spot on one of our upcoming tours or to attend a Virtual Open House. We encourage prospective students to view our virtual tour and connect with us on Facebook or Twitter to learn more about events and programs happening in the School and Clinic. We can answer your questions via email as well. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.