COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Scholarship Resources Section Menu Home Program Options Information Session How to Apply Estimated Costs Scholarships Predeparture Information Study Abroad Travel Advisories Study Abroad Spotlights International Buddy Program Incoming Exchange Students Faculty & Staff Resources Contact Us Study Abroad Scholarships Scholarships provided by Wichita State University General Study Abroad Scholarship Application Form | Reference Form Note: All three scholarships listed below require the same application, which is to be submitted to International Education. Applicants do not need to designate a particular scholarship in their application. They will automatically be considered for any funds available for which they meet the eligibility requirements. Deadlines for scholarship applications: Fall semester: February 15th Spring semester: September 15th Summer semester: March 1st Student Government Association (SGA) Study Abroad Scholarship: The applicant must demonstrate that he or she is enrolling in a program approved for academic credit as certified by International Education. Typically, five $1,000 awards are approved for a school year. The scholarship funds from SGA for study abroad are designated for U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents for this application process. The SGA offers other funding to international students for scholarships. Garvey Study Abroad Scholarship: These scholarships are also open to both undergraduate and graduate students from any major who wish to study in another country as part of their curriculum. Between five and ten scholarships from $500 to $1,500 are usually awarded annually. The scholarship from the Garvey fund is for study abroad and designated for U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents for this application process. There are other scholarships available from the Garvey fund for international students. Dr. Dharma DeSilva Endowed International Business Scholarship These scholarships are available to undergraduate students who are pursuing BBA degree with International Business major or minor; or Economics majors (BA) with an international business minor, students with International Studies major (business option). Preference will be given to students who are active members of the International Business Studies Association (IBSA). Each recipient is eligible for one-time $1,500 scholarship from this fund. Students must have and maintain 2.75 GPA for this scholarship. Financial Aid: Financial Aid for study abroad is sometimes available through individual academic departments at Wichita State. Check the department for more details. Financial Aid for Study Abroad: An Undergraduate Student's Resource The Higher Education Act (HEA) of 1992 mandated that a student can receive financial aid for the costs of studying abroad if the student is enrolled in a program approved by the home institution. Moreover, the student would be eligible to receive "grants, loans, or work assistance without regard to whether the study abroad program is required as a part of the student's degree." You likely have many questions about the cost of studying abroad and about how you can fund your abroad experience. Be sure to speak with your campus financial aid officer and study abroad adviser to learn more about specific funding options available at—and required procedures for—your college or university. What Types of Financial Aid Are Available? How Do I Make Arrangements to Have Financial Aid Applied to a Study Abroad Program? Could Financial Aid for a Study Abroad Program Affect Funding for Next Semester's Aid? How Many Credits Do I Need to Receive Financial Aid for Study Abroad? Is Power of Attorney Useful If I Am Overseas? What Sources Are Available to Obtain Further Information on Financial Aid and Funding for Study Abroad? Other Scholarships Resources The scholarship resources listed below are not administered by WSU. Please contact the relevant organization for information about these opportunities. Independent Providers Blakemore Freeman Fellowships for Advanced Asian Language Study Boren Awards for International Study Bridging Scholarships for Study Abroad in Japan CLS - fully funded summer language program Freeman-ASIA Scholarships Fund for Education Abroad (FEA scholarships) Gilman Scholarships GoEuro European Study Abroad Scholarship UAS7 Germany scholarship DAAD Germany scholarships Scholarship Search Engine IIE Passport study abroad funding directory International Scholarships ExPAN Scholarship Search FastWEB—Financial Aid Search Through the Web Studyabroad.com 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©