Skip to content Skip to navigation Colorado State University School of Biomedical Engineering Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering The School (SBME) About SBME SBME Staff Advisory Board Alumni Leadership Council Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Interdisciplinary Research Areas Research Laboratories Undergraduate BME+CBE BME+EE BME+MECH BME Minor E-Days Clinical Opportunities Graduate Graduate Certificate Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Online Master of Science Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Seminar Series Student Resources Academic Advising Career Services Clubs & Organizations COE Resource Library First Generation Program Support SBME Collaboration Opportunities Online Giving Senior Design Sponsorship Search for: Home Biomedical engineers improve health, fight disease, and aid persons with disabilities. Scholarship Award Winner Joyce Bohn received the 2022/23 SBME Scholarship for Leadership and Innovation Learn More E-Days Awards Check out the E-Days award winners Project Winners New AIMBE Fellows Member Sue James has been elected to the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering College of Fellows. Full Story NEW! Study Abroad in Portugal Coming January 2023 Learn More Distinguished Service Award UG Advisor Deb Misuraca receives award for contributions to the internationalization of CSU. Full Story Driving with Alzheimer's Neha Lodha awarded grant to study how to prolong safe driving for people with Alzheimer's Full Story Previous Next Office hours and contacts Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin In-Person Office Hours Tuesdays: 8:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Thursdays: 8:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Fridays: 9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Virtual Office Hours Mondays 9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Wednesdays 9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Undergraduate Programs Phone: (970) 491-7077 Email: Brett.Beal@colostate.edu Graduate Programs Phone: (970) 491-7157 Email: Sara.Mattern@colostate.edu From the pioneering global impacts of our research to the hands-on, life-altering experiences of our students, the School of Biomedical Engineering leads the way. Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Research Programs Our research areas Our research laboratories Making a difference: CSU students travel to Ecuador to design and engineer prosthetics In the News Undergraduate researchers learn to analyze single-cell processes in UQ-Bio Summer School The first annual Undergraduate Quantitative Biology Summer School program, or UQ-Bio, debuted in June to offer undergraduates and first-year graduate students skills and experience needed to contribute to the quantitative biology field. CSU new member of ARMI A chance meeting at the International Conference on Biofabrication and a presentation by Dr. Richard McFarland, ARMI Chief Regulatory Officer, led one of the nation’s top research institutions to join the ARMI ecosystem. CSU helping design new, app-readable rapid COVID-19 test FORT COLLINS, Colo. (CBS4) – Three professors at Colorado State University are working on a rapid COVID-19 test. They named it the “rapid on the spot” coronavirus test. CSU team receives $1 million grant to develop noninvasive biomedical imaging technologies Since the early days of his career, Colorado State University Professor Randy Bartels of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering has been developing methods to advance the basic science of controlling matter with light. New! Online Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering Graduate Certificate Advance your career with specialized training in biomaterials and tissue engineering from Colorado State University. Gain an in-depth understanding of biomaterials by studying the properties, processing, and economics of biomedical and biotechnology applications. Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering Overview Visit CSU Online for more information and to register Graduate Programs COVID-related research & technology Coronavirus vaccine CSU researchers part of national search for coronavirus vaccine Minimizing transmission Testing asymptomatic healthcare workers to find silent COVID-19 carriers Virus detection technology Research team inks licensing deal for COVID-19 viral detection test Wastewater surveillance CSU partners with state of Colorado on wastewater surveillance project to track spread of COVID-19 Ready to become a biomedical engineer? Choose your pathway and receive two degrees. Biomedical engineers improve health, fight disease, and aid persons with disabilities. Are you interested in designing medical instruments, devices, software to run medical equipment, or computer simulations to test new drug therapies? Do you have a creative mind along with strong analytical, communication, math, and problem-solving skills? Can you envision yourself working in manufacturing, universities, hospitals, or research facilities? At CSU, graduates of the biomedical engineering (BME) program receive two degrees: one B.S. in biomedical engineering and the other B.S. in one of the three traditional engineering areas: chemical and biological engineering, electrical engineering or mechanical engineering. “Industry doesn’t want to hire for biomedical engineering alone. The depth of another major makes candidates more desirable.” Stuart Tobet Director, School of Biomedical Engineering Which pathway is right for you? Not sure which track is best for you? Let's take a look at your interests and future career paths, and find out which program is right for you Biomedical engineering Chemical and biological engineering (CBE) Biomedical engineering Electrical engineering (EE) Biomedical engineering Mechanical engineering (ME) Built on Strong Faculty & Research Programs Biomedical engineers work at the interface of biology, medicine and engineering to help solve problems in human and animal health. As the first bachelor’s program in the state of Colorado, CSU pioneered educational efforts in this growing career area. Regenerative and Rehabilitative Medicine Imaging and Diagnostics Medical Devices and Therapeutics Educates and innovates in order to generate new knowledge, improve quality of life, and positively impact society. Houses the Human Performance Clinical/Research Laboratory for interdisciplinary research, teaching, and outreach efforts. Conducts cutting-edge research and education in the physical, mathematical, behavioral, and life sciences. Leads the nation in veterinary research funding and explores multiple areas covering infectious diseases to sports medicine. The School (SBME) ▼ About SBME SBME Staff Advisory Board Alumni Leadership Council Faculty & Research ▼ Faculty Directory Interdisciplinary Research Areas Research Laboratories Undergraduate ▼ BME+CBE BME+EE BME+MECH BME Minor E-Days Clinical Opportunities Graduate ▼ Graduate Certificate Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Online Master of Science Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Seminar Series Student Resources ▼ Academic Advising Career Services Clubs & Organizations COE Resource Library First Generation Program Support SBME ▼ Collaboration Opportunities Online Giving Senior Design Sponsorship Search for: 225 Scott Bioengineering Bldg. 1376 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-1376 Phone: 970-491-7157 Fax: 970-491-5569 sbme-info@colostate.edu Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Apply • Give • Visit Return to Top School of Biomedical Engineering Department Code About People Faculty Directory 225 Scott Bioengineering Building 1376 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-1376 (970) 491-7157 sbme-info@colostate.edu Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Department of Atmospheric Science Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Systems Engineering School of Advanced Materials Discovery School of Biomedical Engineering Contact CSU Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Disclaimer © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA Give Now