Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Accolades and Recognition Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion has received several awards and recognition for our efforts that reflect success in the area of diversity and our continued commitment to access, equity and excellence. Commitment to Diversity Award,Minority Access Inc. Texas Diversity Council, Diversity First Award. Diversity Champion Award, Insight to Diversity Magazine. (The only one of 10 schools in the United States to receive this award and the only school in Texas to receive this recognition). Higher Education Excellence in Diversity(HEED)award. Quailified for Final Four of College Chess, the National Collegiate Championship Playoff. TTU Chess won the Pan-American Chess Championship for the first time. PEGASUS: Selected as Bright Spot in Hispanic Education by the White Hourse Initiative on Education Excellence for academic outreach to Hispanic students. 2016 Best for Vets Colleges, Military Times. 2016 Best for Vets Business School, Military Times. Military Advanced Education: Top Colleges & Universities. GI Jobs: Military Friendly School. Upward Bound: Selected as a Bright Spot in Hispanic Education by the White House Initiative on Education Excellence for academic outreach to Hispanic students. Mentor Tech received national recognition from the Education Trust's report on graduation rates among black students. Women's Studies awarded TECAID, an award granted for facilitation and collaborative work with the College of Mechanical Engineering. Hispanic Outlook listed Texas Tech University on its annual list of the Top 100 Institutions for Hispanics based on degrees awarded. Military & Veterans Programs Texas Tech University was recognized as the 1st Purple Heart University in Texas, 3rd in the US. Military Advanced Education: "Military Friendly College & University" in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2016. "Military Friendly" by G.I. Jobs in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015. In 2016, Texas Tech University was recognized by Military Times as #32 in "Best for Vets". In 2016, Texas Tech University was recognized by Military Times as #23 in "Best for Vets: Business Schools". Texas Tech University received a grant from the Aurora Foundation to provide training and education for the faculty and staff of the Texas Tech University System. Texas Tech is one of five university selected by the Military Officers Association of America for its contribution of former military personnel and being proactive in hiring service members and veterans as employees. TTU Chess Program Texas Collegiate Champions 2013 - 2015. Qualified three years in a row for the Final Four of College Chess, the National Championship playoff. In 2014 Texas Tech was named “Chess College of the Year” by the US Chess Federation. In 2014 - Head Coach Alex Onischuk was recognized as “Grandmaster of the Year.” In December of 2015, TT Chess Team won Pan-American Chess Championship for the first time. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 14, 2020 3:35 PM Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Back About the Division Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About About the Division Back Meet our Team Faculty & Staff College Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About College Students Back You Belong Here Contact Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Contact Back Contact Us Report A Bias Incident Divisional Units & Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Programs & Services Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back AVID First Year Experience Mentor Tech Military & Veterans Programs First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) TTU Chess Program McNair Scholars Program TRIO - Student Support Services University Interscholastic League Raider Education Department (RED) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) Women & Gender Studies Centers and Offices Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Black Cultural Center College Connect Dream Resource Center Office of Institutional Diversity Office of LGBTQIA Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back President's Council on Diversity & Equity RAISE Committee (formerly Hispanic Serving Institution) Alumni Community Heritage & Culture Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Heritage Months Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Heritage Month Fall Pride Week Indigenous People's Heritage Month International Education Week Black History Month Women’s HERstory Month Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi, & Arab Heritage Month MLK Celebration 2022 Diversity Week Culture Celebrations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back El Grito Juneteenth African American Lecture Series Latino Hispanic Lecture Series Graduation Celebrations and Convocations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Black Convocation Hispanic Convocation Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi & Arab (APIDA) Convocation Lavender Graduation MVP Stole & Recognition Ceremony Hispanic Serving Institution Week Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Serving Institution Week Resources Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Resources & Publications Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Camps Support – COVID-19 Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources Inclusive Election Support Resources DACA Resources Publications & Reports The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty Inclusive Language Terminology Funding Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Scholarships Multicultural Student Scholarships Awards Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Accolades and Recognition Spotlighting Award Winners Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet Diversity & Equity Awards Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back K-12 Academic Areas of Inclusion Raiders Rojos Family Support-COVID-19 News & Events Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Back News Events Calendar Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Events Calendar Back TTU Men of Color Initiative - "The Chat" Culture Fest 2020 Black Women in The Academy Discussion & Recognition Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet 2020 Spring Faculty Search Committee Workshop Women's History Month - Juju Chang Hispanic Serving Institution Week Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index