COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Instructor Accessibility Checklist Section Menu Accessibility at Wichita State University The Accessibility Committee Accessibility Report 2020 Accessibility For Face To Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility Training WSU Technology Audit Request Form EIT Corrective Action Strategy WSU Technology Corrective Action Strategy PDFs At WSU Looking Ahead Report an Accessibility Problem Resources and Links Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility Accessibility Exceptions Is this Accessible? Accessibility FAQ Aira Access Accessible Publisher Software Accessibility Review Requests Aira Access at Wichita State Accessibility and Covid-19 Accessibility Report 2020 Instructor Accessibility Checklist Accessible Course Checklist This guide will walk you thought the considerations you need to address to ensure that your course is accessible. Remember, accessibility is how we prepare our classes for the possibility of students who have different abilities or needs; there may be additional requirements specific students require as an individual accommodation in our classes. Course Texts Any textbook or resource that your students use in your class should meet accessibility standards. This is true for both required materials and materials that are optional or for enrichment. Q: How do I know if a resource is Accessible? A: The "Is This Accessible" page has guidance on how to make an initial evaluation of the accessibility of a resource. Q: What do I do if a resource is not accessible? A: The ideal solution is to replace an inaccessible resource with an accessible one. This may be as simple as transitioning to a newer edition of a textbook, or may involve switching to a different textbook that meets accessibility standards. You may not be able to make that transition immediately. If that is the case, you should go through the accessibility exception process to request an exception. It is possible that an alternative version of the resource is available, or can be made available. For example, a novel might be available in audiobook format. If that is the case, and the alternative format is equally effective, it's acceptable to present both versions to your class and allow students to choose the one that is most accessible to them. Q: How do we evaluate the online resources and tools packaged with textbooks? A: In many cases, it can be difficulty to be sure that the tools packaged with your textbook are accessible. It's important to ask your publisher. On the Accessible Publisher Resources page you can check out a list of publisher resources that have been determined to meet our accessibility standards, those have have been reviewed and failed, and there is a link to request a review of a tool that has not yet been reviewed. Course Handouts & Instructor-Generated materials Documents and resources that you create for your classes should be accessible. This can be different for different types of documents, but most of the tools provided by the university (Microsoft Office products, Adobe Acrobat) have tools for evaluating your content for accessibility. Q: How do I know if a handout is accessible? A: The "Is This Accessible" page has guidance on how to make an initial evaluation of the accessibility of a resource. It will be useful to invest in time in training provided by ITS in Microsoft Office and Adobe tools -- in addition to providing a guide to a lot of the power in those tools that we may not know about, the training also covers how to use the built-in accessibility tools to find and correct accessibility problems. Course Lectures - In Person Accessibility in a traditional classroom can vary, based on the way instruction is delivered. A set of recommendations and expectations for accessible face-to-face instruction is available. Course Lectures - Recorded Video Lecture recordings, no matter what platform we are using to create and deliver those videos, need to have accurate captions to meet accessibility standards. The university recommends and supports two platforms: Panopto and Youtube. Both will provide some automatic captions (generated by a computer) that will need to be reviewed for accuracy. In Panopto, for the Fall of 2020 and Spring of 2021, we have some professional captioning service available. Video created in Panopto, or uploaded to Panopto, can be professionally captioned by request by following these instructions. Learn more about Panopto Set up Panopto to caption all new videos in a specific folder Request captions for an existing video in Panopto Course Lectures - Synchronous Video Synchronous instructional video -- lectures delivered live online using Zoom or a similar tool, present special challenges for the delivery of captions with instruction. As an accommodation there are solutions that can be applied through the Office of Disability Services if there is a student who needs them. For information about university standards for temporary synchronous video delivery, review the Accessibility and Covid-19 page. Course Activities & Assignments The variety of instructional activities and assignments make it challenging to address that content in a succinct way. These resources will help you consider the accessibility of these elements of your course: Is This Accessible? Accessibility for Face to Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility and Covid-19 Student-Generated Content Student-generated content presents a special challenge. If a class makes use of student generated content as an instructional tool (student presentations to the class, writing workshops, seminar presentations, for example), those presentations need to be made in a way that is accessible to all students. However, it is outside of the scope of most classes to address the methods for delivering that content in an accessible way. A series of short trainings have been created to address those skills. We recommend that instructors who have classes that use student delivered content require that students complete the appropriate training (or demonstrate that they've already completed it for another class). Impairment Awareness Accessible Face-to-Face Presentations Creating Accessible Digital Documents Creating Accessible Video (for Students) Accessible Conference Presentations Getting Help & Training Resources For instructors who have questions about the accessibility of their classes, need help developing ideas for equally effective alternatives, or need help using Blackboard, Instructional Design and Access provides weekly drop-in labs. Blackboard and Accessibility Labs Also, there are a variety of online trainings that may be useful to you as an instructor. In MyTraining: The unviersity staff training hub has a variety of training courses that address accessibility, disability, and other issues. These online titles are appropriate and available on demand: Accessibility Training 2020-21 (required for all instructional staff in the 2020-21 academic year Ability Ally Online (optional disability awareness/accessibility training) The Academic Resources Conference (ARC) presents live training events for instructional staff several times a year. These recordings of past ARC events may provide useful background, guidance, and information Accessibility in the Remote Classroom (ARC Aug 2020) Know Before Assigning Digital Materials Accessibility and the University's Auditing Processes ARC Aug 2020 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©