Skip to main content Menu About News Events Apply Give Academics Undergraduate Degrees Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Online Programs Departments & Units Advising & Resources Admissions Why UMD Public Health Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Non-Degree Seeking Students Tuition & Aid Request Information Visit Research & Impact Research Centers Laboratories, Projects and Programs Innovation Policy Reports Public Health Research at Maryland Event People Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Student Opportunities Career Exploration Mentorship Professional Development Internships Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations, Honor Societies and Honor Programs Global Health Experiences Peace Corps Prep Advising & Academic Resources Home Congratulations SPH Graduates! The School of Public Health held its Spring 2022 Commencement ceremony on May 19 to recognize and celebrate the accomplishments of more than 600 bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree recipients. View the program, photos and video Public Health Beyond Borders Wins U21 Prize The student-led nonprofit Public Health Beyond Borders (PHBB) won the “Most Collaborative” prize in the 2021-22 Universitas 21 (U21) RISE Showcase & Awards. Launched in the SPH in 2012, PHBB has enabled more than 1,000 undergraduate and graduate students to work on international partnerships focused on eliminating health disparities in Peru, Sierra Leone, India, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Prince George’s County, Maryland. Read about the award from U21 School of Public Health Honors Five Boosters Dean Boris Lushniak presented five outstanding members of the SPH community with awards for their service to the school and their commitment to advancing public health. Read about the awardees Programs & Degrees Undergraduate Master’s Doctoral Certificate Programs View All Departments and Units Explore public health At the University of Maryland School of Public Health, we are driven by a passion to break down the barriers that keep individuals, families, communities and populations from attaining optimum health and wellness. Explore some of the ways we work to promote health, prevent disease and prolong active, high-quality lives through the topics below. Make a difference with a degree from UMD Public Health Request Info How to Apply Mental Health Close Modal Mental Health Our mental health is an integral part of our overall health, yet barriers to mental health care and persistent stigma about mental illness make it difficult for everyone to achieve their best mental health. At the UMD School of Public Health, we are working to improve access to mental health care, and the quality of that care for underserved groups such as LGBTQ+ people, older adults and communities of color. Related Programs Prevention Research Ctr MS, Couple & Family Therapy Ctr for Healthy Families Master of Public Health A national survey of LGBTQ+ college students, conducted by SPH doctoral student John P. Salerno, finds that large numbers are struggling with substance use, psychological distress, and social isolation as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The report recommends actions that university leaders should take to support the mental health of these vulnerable students. Read a summary of the survey findings Health Literacy Close Modal Health Literacy Health literacy is about how people find, understand and use health information and services to decide on and take action to protect and promote health. At the UMD School of Public Health, we aim to improve health literacy and increase health equity through clear communication strategies and techniques. Related Programs Center for Health Literacy BS, Community Health HealthyMe/MiSalud is a smartphone app to find and receive personalized health information aligned with health goals and personal and family histories. The Center for Health Literacy research team is developing this app for African Americans and Spanish-speaking Hispanic users. Healthy Me/Mi Salud Family and Child Health Close Modal Family and Child Health The health and well-being of our children and families is the basis for a thriving and sustainable world. At the UMD School of Public Health, we examine how childhood experiences and family dynamics influence our health throughout life, and pursue research and policies that support the well-being of all families, caregivers and children. RELATED PROGRAMS PhD, MCH Pizzigati Initiative Family Science MS, Couple & Family Therapy Educational inequities that existed before the pandemic have become even deeper and difficult to bridge. A report by the Department of Family Science provided a wake-up call and recommendations for school systems to better support student engagement and success, particularly for Black and Latino K-12 students. Report: Pandemic Exposes Educational Inequity Challenges Climate Change and Health Close Modal Climate Change and Health From exposure to extreme weather and worsening air pollution to the spread of food and water borne diseases — climate change is a health emergency. At the UMD School of Public Health, we are studying the ongoing health impacts of climate change in our communities and developing strategies to mitigate harm, promote sustainability and advocate for environmental justice. Related Programs Enviro Health & Society CEEJH Lab CONSERVE MPH, Environmental Health SPH Experts on Climate Change and Health The Maryland Climate and Health Profile report, produced by the UMD SPH in partnership with the state health department, provides an assessment of how climate change is affecting or will likely affect the health of Marylanders. Maryland Climate and Health Profile Report Physical Activity Close Modal Physical Activity Physical activity is essential to maintaining health throughout life. At the UMD School of Public Health, we’re studying physical activity’s role in health from the cellular to the societal level. Programs examine impacts of activity on cognitive health and preventing injury and disease as we age and the role of our built environments in supporting active lifestyles. Related Programs PHOEBE Lab MPH, Physical Activity Neuromechanics Lab Exercise for Brain Health Adults should do at least 2.5 hours to 5 hours a week of moderate-intensity physical activity, or 75 minutes to 2.5 hours a week of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, according to the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans. Read the Physical Activity Guidelines Health Equity Close Modal Health Equity Health equity means that everyone has a fair and just opportunity to be as healthy as possible. At the UMD School of Public Health, we conduct research, lead interventions and inform policies that remove obstacles to health and aim to improve the conditions in which all people live, learn, work and play which can impact lifelong health and well-being. Related Programs Center for Health Equity MPH, Health Equity MPH, Health Policy and Evaluation SPH Experts on Racism and Health Building trust in the COVID-19 vaccine in underserved communities of color is an important part of ensuring an equitable vaccination rollout. The Maryland Center for Health Equity has hosted a series of webinars to address questions and concerns from African American and Latino communities. Visit the webinar playlist Health Care Access Close Modal Health Care Access Life expectancy in the US is on the decline, yet we spend more on medical care than any other nation. To promote health and well-being, the UMD School of Public Health is studying the benefits of investments in programs focused on preventing disease and care coordination in reducing health disparities and health care costs, while improving access to high-quality and affordable care for diverse populations. Related Programs HAPPY Lab Master of Health Administration MPH, Public Health Policy and Practice Health Systems and Policy Lab A new $2M NIH grant (R01) to Professor Jie Chen will focus on identifying ways that public health departments and health systems can coordinate care and improve health equity for African Americans, Latinos and people who receive federal housing assistance who have risk factors for Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Learn more about this research COVID-19 Close Modal COVID-19 Since the SARS-CoV-2 virus responsible for the global coronavirus pandemic was identified, UMD School of Public Health experts have been at the forefront of the response. Our contributions have included research on how COVID-19 spreads, health communication guidance to keep people safe, and dispelling vaccine misinformation. We’re also addressing the disproportionate impacts of this crisis on different groups, including families of color and LGBTQ+ people. Related Programs Stop COVID Study SPH Experts on COVID-19 Find the latest COVID-19 information for the UMD community. Visit the 4Maryland Website Plan Your Studies Advising Find Faculty & Staff Directory Get Involved Student Organizations Fearlessly Promoting Health for All At the University of Maryland School of Public Health, we are driven by a passion to break down the societal barriers that keep individuals, families, communities and populations from optimum health and wellness everyday. Join us on a fearless journey to do public health good! 2800+ Undergraduate and Graduate Students in the School of Public Health The School of Public Health has extraordinary professors and faculty who are dedicated to continuous student success. Taylor Palmer '21 Intern, PATIENTS Program, University of Maryland School of Pharmacy and MPH student Read Taylor's profile $19M Annual Research Funding Research and impact Research & Innovation SPH research is making a difference in critical areas, from climate change’s impacts on health, physical activity’s benefits to aging brains and culturally competent mental health care's role in LGBTQ+ persons' health, among others. Explore our research centers A member of the CONSERVE research team collects water from a field site to be analyzed for its chemical, microbial and physical qualities. Become a Public Health Terp! How to Apply Request Info Contact Visit Apply Give Employment For Media SPH Intranet Web Accessibility 4200 Valley Drive, Suite 2242 College Park, Maryland 20742-2611 p: phone: 301-405-2438 f: fax: 301-405-8397 Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Information for Visitors FAQ's Contact Us Careers Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct UMD Police Department Accessibility Policies & Procedures Public Records Request © 2022 University of Maryland