Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL & OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SCI ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ENV H 105 Toxic Tales: Building Skills for Academic Success through the Study of Poisons (2) T. MAR Designed to help first-year undergraduate students develop the study skills necessary for success through an exploration of the environmental health sciences and toxicology. Through a series of lectures, readings, case studies, group discussions, and student presentations, students are introduced to, master, and demonstrate a variety of learning strategies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 105 ENV H 111 Exploring Environment and Health Connections (3) I&S/NW Introduction to environmental health concepts. Examines current events to illustrate and better appreciate the relationship between environment and health and to explore whether an environmental condition is or is not an important threat to health. Emphasizes the roles of environmental scientists and related professionals. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 111 ENV H 205 Environmental Health in Media (3) I&S Explores how the perspective of filmmakers and documentaries can influence the public's interpretation of environmental health issues, and examines the science and cultural norms that support both sides of the argument. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 205 ENV H 220 Global Environmental Change and Public Health (3) I&S Kristie L Ebi Humans are the primary drivers of global environmental changes that are changing the planet on the scale of geological forces. Students will be introduced to these changes and their consequences for human health and well-being, with a focus on climate change and its consequences. Offered: jointly with G H 220. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 220 ENV H 305 Environmental Poisons and Public Health (3) I&S/NW Introduces concepts and tools that help students think critically about how environmental toxicants can impact human health. Covers basic principles and core concepts from toxicology, epidemiology, exposure assessment, risk assessment and risk management through a case-based approach that focuses on a selection of representative toxicants of current public health relevance. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 305 ENV H 306 Health and Sustainability (3) I&S/NW, DIV H. Frumkin Focuses on the intersection of human health and environmental sustainability. Introduces core concepts of sustainability (for health sciences students) and public health (for environmental studies students) and explores the intersections of health and sustainability in specific domains including energy, transportation, the built environment, food systems, and chemicals. Emphasizes a systems thinking approach to formulating solutions. Prerequisite: any of the following: BIOL 118, BIOL 180, CHEM 120, CHEM 142, or CHEM 145. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 306 ENV H 310 Green Chemicals, Green Products, Green Processes: Crafting a Less Toxic World (3) I&S/NW D. KALMAN Presents green chemistry in the context of social impact and public health. Focuses on the relationship between the science and application of chemistry, and the conditions of life that affect everyone's health, particularly in the developed world. Prerequisite: CHEM 142 or CHEM 120; recommended: either CHEM 220 or CHEM 237; either one ENV H or SPH course. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 310 ENV H 311 Introduction to Environmental Health (3) I&S/NW Relationship of people to their environment, how it affects their physical well-being and what they can do to influence the quality of the environment and to enhance the protection of their health. Emphasis on environmental factors involved in transmission of communicable diseases and hazards due to exposure to chemical and physical materials in our environment. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 311 ENV H 320 Introduction to Technical Communication in Environmental Health (5) Written and oral communication for environmental health professionals. Principles of effective writing for technical articles, proposals, and reports with attention to structure, clarity, style, and language usage. Students learn to translate complex technical information for broader audiences. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 320 ENV H 405 Toxic Chemicals and Human Health (3) Examines the basic principles of toxicology and the effects of chemicals on human health. Includes mechanisms; dose/response relationships; toxicity testing, disposition in the body; modifiers of response; chemicals and cancer; birth defects; exposures in the home, workplace, and environment; and risk assessment and government regulation. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOL 220; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in either CHEM 220, CHEM 224, CHEM 238, or CHEM 336. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 405 ENV H 406 Disasters and Public Health (3) I&S/NW Introduces students to the public health and environmental health consequences of common domestic disasters, and the role of public health agencies and practitioners. Students will describe and evaluate the public health community's role in preparing for and responding to disasters through case studies, discussions, debates, course lectures and readings. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 406 ENV H 409 Microbiome and Environmental Health (3) NW Introduces the current science of microbiome impacts on environmental public health. Defines human, animal, and environmental microbiomes, describes the methods used to characterize these microbiomes, and discusses the impact of microbiomes on the health of human and animal populations. Factors that have been suggested to modulate microbial populations, host-microbe interactions, and the dynamics of microbiome populations are also examined. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 409 ENV H 417 Case Studies in Children's Environmental Health Disparities (3) DIV Introduces students to the ways in which children are disproportionately affected by environmental health hazards. Through a series of engaging case studies, student learn the core scientific concepts of children's environmental health while exploring the social, cultural, regulatory, political, and economic factors that lead to children's health disparities. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 417 ENV H 418 Understanding and Managing the Health Risks of Climate Change (3) Kristie L Ebi The health risks of climate change are multiple and range across the public health space. Addresses current and projected health risks of climate change and the policies and measures to manage these risks as the climate continues to change. Offered: jointly with G H 418; W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 418 ENV H 426 Leadership in Public Health I (1) I&S, DIV Designed for students who are serving on the School of Public Health Dean's Advisory Council of Students (DACS). Focuses on development of personal leadership skills and acumen. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 426 ENV H 427 Leadership in Public Health II (1) I&S, DIV Designed for students who are serving on the School of Public Health Dean's Advisory Council of Students (DACS). Focuses on leading others in academic settings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 427 ENV H 428 Leadership in Public Health III (1) I&S, DIV Designed for students who are serving on the School of Public Health Dean's Advisory Council of Students (DACS). Focuses on leading others in practice/community settings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 428 ENV H 431 Environmental and Occupational Sampling and Analysis I (3) NW Laboratory and lecture on sampling. Field and laboratory analysis of chemical and physical agents found in the occupational and ambient environments. Prerequisite: CHEM 162 ; PHYS 114 ; and ENV H 311, may be taken concurrently. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 431 ENV H 432 Chemical Sampling and Analysis (5) NW Laboratory and lecture on chemical sampling and analysis. Field and laboratory anaylsis of chemical and physical agents found in the occupational and ambient environments. Prerequisite: CHEM 152 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 432 ENV H 433 Microbiological Sampling and Analysis (5) NW Laboratory and lecture on microbiological sampling and analysis. Field and laboratory analysis of microbiological agents found in the occupational and ambient environments (water, food and air). Prerequisite: MICROM 301 or MICROM 410; and MICROM 302 or MICROM 402. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 433 ENV H 439 One Health: Human and Animal Health in a Changing Environment (3) I&S/NW P. RABINOWITZ Case based exploration of the One Health concept, connecting human, animal, and environmental health. Topics include emerging zoonotic infectious diseases transmitted between humans and animals, animals as sentinels of environmental hazards, the human-animal bond, and the comparison of spontaneous diseases between human and animals. Includes two optional field trips. Prerequisite: BIOL 180. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 439 ENV H 440 Water, Wastewater, and Health (3) Review of water supply, water quality, and water/wastewater treatment as they relate to human health. Includes water law and regulations, source water protection, basic treatment technologies for water and waste, chemical and microbial contaminants, and recreational water. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 440 ENV H 441 Food Protection (3) Study of identification and characteristics of chemicals and biological agents implicated in foodborne disease outbreaks and conditions or circumstances by which food contamination occurs. Examination of food protection activities conducted by local and state government at the retail level. Prerequisite: either CHEM 120, CHEM 142, MICROM 301, or MICROM 410. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 441 ENV H 442 Zoonotic Diseases and Their Control (3) Examines the transmission and control of zoonotic and vector-borne diseases of public health importance in the United States and globally. Pays attention to identification, surveillance, and control methods. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOL 220. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 442 ENV H 443 Housing and Health (3) I&S/NW Explores healthy and safe homes as a crucial element in public health. Review of federal, state and local approaches to housing-related programs under the banner of healthy homes. Students completing this course will understand the relationship between housing and human health and well-being. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 443 ENV H 444 Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria/Genes Impact on the Environment and Public Health (4) Marilyn C Roberts Explores how the global use and abuse of antibiotics has profound consequences on the health of humans, animals, and the environment. Addresses issues of antibiotic resistant bacteria and genes through an interdisciplinary "One Health" approach that integrates human, animal, and environmental health. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 444 ENV H 445 Solid Waste Management (3) Examination of the public health, environmental, economic, and materials conservation aspects of solid wastes management; amounts and sources of solid wastes, waste reduction and recycling, methods of storage, transportation and disposal, integrated waste management, identification of present problems and future needs. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 445 ENV H 446 Hazardous Waste and Public Health (3) Characterization of hazardous wastes and introduction to pertinent federal and state regulations. Discussion of exposure pathways and description of management options at pre-generation, pre-release, and post-release stages. Emphasis on public health significance. Supplemented with case studies. Prerequisite: CHEM 152 or CHEM 220; and MATH 124 or Q SCI 291. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 446 ENV H 447 Environmental Change and Infectious Disease (3) G. CANGELOSI Uses multidisciplinary approach to address the impacts of environmental change (including climate change) on infectious disease. Concepts include categories of environmental change; infectious disease emergence/re-emergence; environmental aspects of infectious disease exposure, acquisition, and progression; pathogen growth/survival in the environment; historical and societal perspectives; surveillance; and strategies for control. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 447 ENV H 448 Community Air Pollution (3) Offers a comprehensive overview of community air pollution including: air pollution sources, chemistry, and meteorology; human health and environmental effects; global warming; air quality standards, monitoring, control, and management; indoor air; and local air quality management. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 448 ENV H 451 Ecology of Environmentally Transmitted Microbiological Hazards (3) Focuses on the transmission of infectious microorganisms by air, food, water, and other environmental media. Provides an introduction to environmentally transmitted pathogens, and discusses factors affecting their environmental fate, transport, and persistence. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 451 ENV H 452 Detection and Control of Environmentally Transmitted Microbiological Hazards (3) Focuses on the detection and control of infectious microorganisms in air, food, water, and other environmental media. Provides a discussion on sample collection, processing, and detection for infectious microorganisms. Provides coverage of engineered controls and disinfection/decontamination processes for infectious microorganisms. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 452 ENV H 453 Industrial Hygiene (3) Introduction to the principles and scientific foundation of industrial hygiene. Examines the anticipation, recognition, evaluation, and control of work place hazards to health and safety. Focuses on the first three functions, but includes some consideration of control methods. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 453 ENV H 460 Occupational Safety Management (3) Explores industrial organization and methods of integrating safety and industrial hygiene programs with industrial operations. Investigates issues related to industrial safety and health such as responsibility for safety, dependency on safe practice, and hierarchy of prevention. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 460 ENV H 461 Air-Pollution Control (4) Fundamental concepts of air pollution Control including emission sources, atmospheric dispersion, ambient concentrations, and emission standards, with emphasis on processes and equipment for controlling emissions. Offered: jointly with CEE 490; ASp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 461 ENV H 462 Technical Aspects of Occupational Safety (3) Reviews federal OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) and state WISHA (Washington Industrial Safety and Heath Act) standards. Explores the impact of these regulations on industry, particularly construction. Upon completion of the course, students receive an OSHA 510 30-hour Construction Safety and Health certification. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 462 ENV H 465 Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Public Health (3) NW/I&S Applications of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in public health. Practical experience using the principles, methods, and techniques of spatial analysis to solve practical public health problems within a variety of sub-disciplines, focusing on environmental health, but also exploring infectious diseases, health services and community health. Spatial data representation and management, visualization of spatial data, and exploratory analyses. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 465 ENV H 472 Environmental Risk and Society (3) I&S Examines scientific determinations of environmental risks and explores how such determinations are evaluated by affected communities and society. Employs risk analysis to integrate technical knowledge in hazard identification and exposure assessment to provide a more rational basis for environmental policies. Role of public participation in risk-based decision making discussed. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 472 ENV H 473 Environmental Health Policy and Practice (4) I&S Explores how environmental health problems are controlled in the United States. Examines both the policies and practices of environmental health. Looks at how various government programs are established, organized, and operated to prevent or control hazards in the community. Also examines the legal and regulatory framework. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 473 ENV H 480 Undergraduate Seminar (1, max. 6) Covers career exploration and planning within the environmental health major through presentation of current environmental and occupational health issues. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 480 ENV H 482 Environmental Health Internship (2-15, max. 15) Assignment to an environmental health or environmental protection agency for supervised observation and experience in environmental health technology, program planning, and utilization of community resources. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.5 in ENV H 311. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 482 ENV H 490 Selected Topics in Environmental Health (1-6, max. 20) In-depth study of a current environmental health topic. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 490 ENV H 497 Environmental Health Special Electives (*, max. 35) Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 497 ENV H 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Individual research on a specific topic in environmental health upon which specific conclusions, judgments, or evaluation can be made or upon which facts can be presented. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 499 ENV H 501 Foundations of Environmental and Occupational Health (4) Covers the foundational environmental and occupational public health knowledge domains. Provides a comprehensive overview of an environmental and occupational public health framework and a One Health systems model for assessing and managing environmental health risks on a local and global scale. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 501 ENV H 502 Assessing and Managing Risks from Human Exposure to Environmental Contaminants (4) Exposure science provides quantitative data needed to inform risk assessments and apply regulatory standards to a wide range of hazards. Introduces techniques such as hazard identification, dose response estimation, fate and transport modeling, statistical exposure and dose estimation, exposure biomarkers and toxicological risk characterization as applied in both occupational and community environments. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 502 ENV H 503 Adverse Health Effects of Environmental and Occupational Toxicants (4) Principles governing the effects of toxicants on health, including: acute, sub-acute and chronic toxicity; dose response modeling; derivation of potency; response modifiers; adverse health effects including cancer, birth defects and damage to major organ systems; regulation of toxicants in the home, workplace and general environment. Focus on human health impacts of toxicants in a public health context. For non-toxicology majors. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 503 ENV H 504 Advanced Environmental Health Sciences Research Methods (4) Provides high level introduction to advanced research methods in environmental health sciences. Topics include: approaches to study environmental health, experimental design, sampling plan development, data analysis, and responsible conduct of research. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 504 ENV H 506 Disasters and Public Health (3) I&S/NW Introduces students to the public health and environmental health consequences of common domestic disasters, and the role of public health agencies and practitioners. Students will describe and evaluate the public health community's role in preparing for and responding to disasters through case studies, discussions, debates, course lectures and readings. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 506 ENV H 509 Microbiome and Environmental Health (3) Introduces the current science of microbiome impacts on environmental public health. Defines human, animal, and environmental microbiomes, describes the methods used to characterize these microbiomes, and discusses the impact of microbiomes on the health of human and animal populations. Factors that have been suggested to modulate microbial populations, host-microbe interactions, and the dynamics of microbiome populations are also examined. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 509 ENV H 510 Global Environmental and Occupational Health (4) Provides an overview of environmental and occupational health, with major focus on developing countries. Examines a variety of environmental hazards and influential factors, interactions with human health and well-being, and relevance to public health. Considers workplace, community, home, regional, and global problems. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 510 ENV H 511 Environmental and Occupational Health (4-) J. HESS Provides a graduate-level overview of the multidisciplinary field of environmental and occupational health. Environmental, occupational, and nutritional problems in different settings (e. g. the workplace, community, and home) and at varying scaled (local, regional, and global) are considered, with special emphasis on considerations related to food systems and nutrition. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 511 ENV H 512 Environmental and Occupational Health for Public Health Practitioners (3) Introduces students in professional degree programs in Public Health to basic concepts from environmental and occupational health sciences, to the methods used to study the links between the environment and health, to the health impacts of various environmental exposures, and to the environmental public health approach to controlling or managing risks and promoting health. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 512 ENV H 513 Basic Concepts in Pharmacogenetics and Toxicogenomics (3) K. THUMMEL Addresses current technologies for DNA sequencing, genotyping, RNA and epigenetic analysis and basic concepts of pharmacogenetics and toxicogenomics. Emphasis placed on applications of genomic technologies to the understanding of "gene-environment interactions" that cause variability in drug treatment responses, as well as diseases of public health importance, including cancer, chronic neurological diseases, and adverse drug reactions. Offered: jointly with PCEUT 513/PHG 513; W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 513 ENV H 514 Fundamentals of Toxicology (3) Covers major fundamentals and core areas of toxicology, including dose response, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of toxicants, toxicity testing, interpretation of toxicological data; and biochemical, cellular, and physiological mechanisms by which chemicals produce toxic responses. Also explores mechanisms and fate of chemical interaction with biological systems. Prerequisite: BIOL 212, BIOC 405, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 514 ENV H 515 Organ System Toxicology (3) T. KAVANAGH Focuses on organ system toxicology. Emphasizes the pathophysiology of toxicant-induced organ injury, including adaptive responses to toxicant exposure, inflammation, and tissue repair pathways. Prerequisite: ENV H 514 or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 515 ENV H 516 Toxic Agents: Effects and Mechanisms (3) Focuses on the toxic effects and the underlying mechanisms of the principal classes of toxicants: pesticides, metals, solvents, air pollutants, persistent organic pollutants, radiation, as well as on food safety and occupational/clinical/eco toxicology. Prerequisite: ENV H 515 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 516 ENV H 517 Children's Environmental Health (3) Discussion of environmental health issues as they pertain to children's health. Topics include historical perspective of public health research and policies directed at protecting children's health and emerging scientific and public health issues such as the risks and benefits of seafood consumption during pregnancy; use of pesticides on food and in the home; air pollution and childhood asthma, and childhood injuries and the built environment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 517 ENV H 518 Understanding and Managing the Health Risks of Climate Change (3) Kristie L Ebi The health risks of climate change are multiple and range across the public health space. Addresses current and projected health risks of climate change and the policies and measures to manage these risks as the climate continues to change. Offered: jointly with G H 518; W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 518 ENV H 520 Advanced Technical Communicaton in Public Health (3) Covers written and oral communication for environmental health and public health professionals, with particular emphasis on three main areas: conveying information more effectively to technical audiences, translating that information for general audiences in the public arena, and crafting effective commentary relating to topics of professional interest. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 520 ENV H 521 Effective Communication Strategies for Environmental Public Health Professionals (2) Introduces students to the science of and best practices in science communication. Covers how and why to use narrative structure, how to identify and emphasize important messages, how to influence behavioral change, identifying common mistakes in messaging, and how to interact with the media. Prepares students to present at conferences, interact with the media, engage with diverse communities, and write high impact papers and competitive grants. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 521 ENV H 526 Leadership in Public Health I (1) Designed for students who are serving on the School of Public Health Dean's Advisory Council of Students (DACS). Focuses on development of personal leadership skills and acumen. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 526 ENV H 527 Leadership in Public Health II (1) Designed for students who are serving on the School of Public Health Dean's Advisory Council of Students (DACS). Focuses on leading others in academic settings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 527 ENV H 528 Leadership in Public Health III (1) Designed for students who are serving on the School of Public Health Dean's Advisory Council of Students (DACS). Focuses on leading others in practice/community settings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 528 ENV H 530 Research Proposal Preparation for Biological Sciences (3) Provides first-hand experience for doctoral students in the biological sciences on proposal writing and the review process. Focuses on hypothesis-driven, laboratory bench-work based research following the NIH pre-doctoral fellowship format, and aims to prepare students for their pre-doctoral fellowship submissions and general qualifying exams. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 530 ENV H 531 Neurotoxicology (3) Advanced discussions of the principles and methodological approaches to neurotoxicology (including behavioral toxicology), classes of neurotoxic agents, types and mechanisms of neurotoxic effects, as well as the role of neurotoxicology in toxicology and public health. Prerequisite: ENV H 514, ENV H 515, ENV H 516 or ENV H 405 or permission of instructor. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 531 ENV H 532 Reproductive and Developmental Toxicology (3) Investigates chemicals that can induce adverse reproductive and developmental outcomes. Discussion topics include identification and characterization of specific classes of toxic agents, mechanisms of action of these agents at the molecular and cellular level, and risk assessment and regulatory issues. Prerequisite: ENV H 514 and ENV H 515 or ENV H 405 or permission of instructor. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 532 ENV H 533 Molecular Toxicology (3) Advanced discussion of molecular mechanisms whereby chemical and biological agents produce their harmful effects on biological tissues. Topics include the role of xenobiotic biotransformation enzyme expression in chemical susceptibility, toxicogenomics, chemical-induced oxidative stress, alternative models, species differences, and dietary anti-carcinogens. Prerequisite: prior coursework in toxicology and biochemistry, or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 533 ENV H 534 Biochemical Toxicology of the Puget Sound (3) Advanced discussion of effects of pollutants on aquatic organisms at the molecular, biochemical, and physiological levels, and in the context of Puget Sound case studies. Topics include assessing toxicant-induced cell injury in aquatic organisms, biotransformation and detoxification pathways, toxicogenomics, assessing chemical diseases in fish, biomarkers, and zebrafish models. Prerequisite: prior coursework in toxicology and biochemistry or permission of instructor. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 534 ENV H 536 Health Impact Assessment (2) Examines the use of Health Impact Assessment as a public health tool for informing decision-makers about the potential health impacts of proposed projects and policies. Students learn the steps for conducting HIAs, review case studies, and conduct an HIA of a current local proposed project. Offered: jointly with URBDP 536. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 536 ENV H 538 Public Health and the Built Environment (2) Examines how the design of communities and land use and transportation decision have positive and adverse effects on health. Considers built environment impacts on physical activity, obesity, air quality, injuries, mental health, social capital, and environmental justice; and explores interventions to promote healthy community design. Offered: jointly with URBDP 538. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 538 ENV H 539 One Health: Human and Animal Health in a Changing Environment (3) P. RABINOWITZ Case based exploration of the One Health concept, connecting human, animal, and environmental health. Topics include emerging zoonotic infectious diseases transmitted between humans and animals, animals as sentinels of environmental hazards, the human-animal bond, and the comparison of spontaneous diseases between human and animals. Includes two optional field trips. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 539 ENV H 541 Ecology of Environmentally Transmitted Microbial Hazards (3) Focuses on the transmission of infectious microorganisms by air, food, water, and other environmental media. Provides an introduction to environmentally transmitted pathogens, and discusses factors affecting their environmental fate, transport, and persistence. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 541 ENV H 542 Detection and Control of Environmentally Transmitted Microbial Hazards (3) Focuses on the detection and control of infectious microorganisms in air, food, water, and other environmental media. Provides a discussion on sample collection, processing, and diction for infectious microorganisms. Provides coverage of engineered controls and disinfection/decontamination processes for infectious organisms. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 542 ENV H 543 Quantitative Microbial Risk Assessment (3) Focuses on the principles of quantitative risk assessment as applied to infectious microorganisms. Covers hazard identification, exposure assessment, health effects assessment, risk characterization, and risk communication. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 543 ENV H 544 Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria/Genes Impact on the Environment and Public Health (4) M. ROBERTS Explores how the global use and abuse of antibiotics has profound consequences on the health of humans, animals, and the environment. Addresses issues of antibiotic resistant bacteria and genes through an interdisciplinary "One Health" approach that integrates human, animal, and environmental health. Prerequisite: either EPI 320, BIOL 220, or MICROM 301. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 544 ENV H 545 Water, Wastewater, and Health (4) Review of water supply, water quality, and water/wastewater treatment as they relate to human health. Includes water law and regulations, source water protection, basic treatment technologies for water and waste, chemical and microbial contaminants, and recreational water. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 545 ENV H 546 Hazardous Waste and Public Health (3) Characterization of hazardous wastes and introduction to pertinent federal and state regulations. Discussion of exposure pathways and description of management options at pre-generation, pre-release, and post-release stages. Emphasis on public health significance. Supplemented with case studies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 546 ENV H 547 Environmental Change and Infectious Disease (3) G. CANGELOSI Uses multidisciplinary approach to address the impacts of environmental change (including climate change) on infectious disease. Concepts include categories of environmental change; infectious disease emergence/re-emergence; environmental aspects of infectious disease exposure, acquisition, and progression; pathogen growth/survival in the environment; historical and societal perspectives; surveillance; and strategies for control. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 547 ENV H 548 Community Air Pollution (3) Offers a comprehensive overview of community air pollution including: air pollution sources, chemistry, and meteorology; human health and environmental effects; global warming; air quality standards, monitoring, control, and management; indoor air; and local air quality management. Prerequisite: SPH graduate student or permission. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 548 ENV H 549 Research Methods in Human Factors (3) Includes fundamental guidelines for survey design, controlled experiments, quasi-experimental, and observational studies. Focus on safety, productivity, functionality, and usability. Review of journal articles on research methods and design issues, given functional, psychological, physiological, and environmental constraints. Recommended: introductory class in human factors. Offered: jointly with IND E 549; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 549 ENV H 550 Occupational and Environmental Disease (3/4) J. SPECTOR A case-based introduction to occupational and environmental diseases, focusing on disease epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnostic testing basics, and aspects of population management such as disease surveillance, policy development, and health protection programs. A four credit option offered to clinically-oriented students additionally covers diagnostic test interpretation, differential diagnosis, and clinical management. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 550 ENV H 552 Environmental Chemistry of Pollution (4) Chemical and physical processes determining distribution and fate of chemical hazards, detection of low levels of hazardous compounds, and environmental evaluation and prediction. Fundamental chemical concepts and measurable properties of individual compounds to interpret and relate measurements. Prerequisite: admission to graduate program or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 552 ENV H 553 Environmental Exposure Monitoring Methods (4) Provides an in-depth understanding of current monitoring methods for occupational, residential, and community exposures to hazardous chemical agents. Examines the technical basis for sampling strategies and sampling and analytical methods for chemicals in air, water, food, and soil, and for biological markers of exposure and effect in humans and other biota. Prerequisite: ENV H 453 or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 553 ENV H 554 Biological Monitoring for Chemical Exposure (2) Advanced seminar on biological monitoring for assessment of chemical exposure and health risks from environmental agents. Considers applications and interpretation of results from analysis of biological specimens taken from persons exposed to chemicals in the work place and the general environment. Prerequisite: ENV H 551 or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 554 ENV H 555 Instrumental Methods for Industrial Hygiene Measurement: Laboratory (3) Utilizes typical instrumental techniques and analytical methods for the evaluation of potential occupational exposures. Prerequisite: ENV H 453 and ENV H 553 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 555 ENV H 556 Quantitative Exposure Assessment (3) Offers statistical skills and examples to conduct analysis of occupational and environmental exposure data in order to understand the nature of airborne exposures in the environment, and their interpretation for human health. Focuses on reading and discussion of primary exposure assessment literature and statistical analysis and interpretation of real datasets. Prerequisite: either BIOST 508, BIOST 511, or BIOST 517. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 556 ENV H 557 Exposure Controls (3/4) Presents engineering concepts for selecting exposure controls for chemical, physical, and biological agents. Topics include regulatory mandates, hazard rating strategies, protective clothing, respiratory protection, chemical safety management, building ventilation, local exhaust ventilation, chemical and biohazards controls, airflow measurements, and ventilation troubleshooting. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 557 ENV H 559 Applied Occupational Health and Safety (3) Application of occupational safety and health principles. Student teams perform evaluations, assess production methods/processes and exposures, health and safety procedures and programs, and develop engineering and administrative controls. Students perform on a consulting project with a local company including budgeting, project reporting, and presentation. Offered: jointly with IND E 567/NSG 505; Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 559 ENV H 560 Occupational Safety Management (4) Explores industrial organization and methods of integrating safety and industrial hygiene programs with industrial operations. Investigates philosophic issues related to industrial safety and health such as responsibility for safety, dependency on safe practice, and hierarchy of prevention. Contains numerous case problems and student involvement opportunities. Offered: jointly with NSG 506; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 560 ENV H 562 Technical Aspects of Occupational Safety (3) Reviews federal OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) and state WISHA (Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act) standards. Explores the impact of these regulations on industry, particularly construction. Upon completion of the course, student receive an OSHA 510 30-hour Construction Safety and Health certificate. Offered: jointly with NSG 507; W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 562 ENV H 563 Health and Safety of Physical Agents in the Workplace (3) Evaluation and prevention of injuries due to physical hazards in the workplace. Hazards covered include noise, vibration, physical agents, ionizing and non-ionizing radiation and thermal stress. Addresses basic physical concepts, health risks, measurement techniques, interpretation of guidelines and standards, and control techniques for each hazard covered. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 563 ENV H 564 Recognition of Health and Safety Problems in Industry (2) Develops skills in occupational health and safety hazard recognition in a variety of important Northwest industries. Focuses on process understanding and hazard recognition skills during walk-through inspections of several local facilities, stressing a multidisciplinary approach. Offered: jointly with IND E 564; A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 564 ENV H 565 Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Public Health (3) Applications of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in public health. Practical experience using the principles, methods, and techniques of spatial analysis to solve practical public health problems within a variety of sub-disciplines, focusing on environmental health, but also exploring infectious diseases, health services and community health. Spatial data representation and management, visualization of spatial data, and exploratory analyses. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 565 ENV H 566 Introduction to Ergonomics (3) Basic principles of ergonomics in work environment applied to problems of worker and management. Topics include measurement of physical work capacity, problems of fatigue and heat stress, applied biomechanics, worker-machine interactions and communication, design of displays and controls. Prerequisite: basic human physiology or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with IND E 566/NSG 508; W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 566 ENV H 569 Occupational Biomechanics (4) Lectures and laboratories address human occupational biomechanical and physiological limits and measurement, analysis, and modeling techniques that are used by ergonomists for design of safe, healthful, and productive physical work. Prerequisite: ENV H 566 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with IND E 569; Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 569 ENV H 570 Occupational and Environmental Epidemiology (3) Research in occupational and environmental determinants of disease. Defining exposed populations, characterizing exposure levels, estimating disease risks relative to exposure. Cohort, case-control, cross-sectional designs for various health outcomes. Applications to exposure standard setting and risk assessment. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512, EPI 513 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with EPI 570. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 570 ENV H 571 Neuroepidemiology and Environmental Risk Factors (3) Walter A Kukull Focuses on neurologic diseases and etiology. Presentation of descriptive epidemiology, clinical features, and risk factors, including stroke, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and other disorders. Discussion of NIH grantsmanship. Guest experts present some topics. Psychiatric disorders e.g. schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, and depression will not be discussed. Offered: jointly with EPI 571. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 571 ENV H 572 Environmental Risk and Society (3) Examines environmental health risk assessments and explores how such assessments are viewed by affected communities. Reviews scientific risk assessment methods, risk perception, risk communication, and public participation processes. Examines the influence of advocacy and special-interest publications on risk assessment debates. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 572 ENV H 573 Methods and Issues in Using Biological Measurements in Epidemiologic Research (3) Schwartz Introduction to use of measurements from biological specimens in epidemiologic studies. Prepares epidemiology and laboratory science students for conduct of interdisciplinary human studies. Evaluation of biomarkers, preliminary studies, methodologic issues, quality control. Brief review of molecular biology. Applications and current literature discussed. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512. Offered: jointly with EPI 573. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 573 ENV H 574 Probabilistic Exposure Analysis (3) Examination of probabilistic (in contrast to deterministic) approaches to prediction of human exposure to environmental contaminants including explicit separation of population variability from uncertainty due to ignorance. Discussion of data needs, pitfalls, policy ramifications, and current state of development and regulatory acceptance. Examples from real world. Student project required. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 574 ENV H 576 Clinical Occupational Medicine (2) For clinicians in training, comprehensive overview of occupational disease principles, occupational history-taking, and the provider's role in workers' compensation. Epidemiologic evidence and pathophysiologic basis for occupational diseases reviewed, emphasizing organ system approach to diagnosis and management. Prerequisite: occupational medicine or preventive medicine residents/fellows, nursing students, or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 576 ENV H 577 Risk Assessment for Environmental Health Hazards (4) Examines context, methodologies, data, uncertainties, and institutional arrangements for risk assessment. Qualitative and quantitative approaches to identification, characterization, and control of environmental hazards to health emphasized through didactic and case studies. Offered: jointly with CEWA 560/PUBPOL 589; A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 577 ENV H 580 Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences Seminar (1, max. 21) Presentation of current environmental and occupational health research and issues. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 580 ENV H 581 Environmental Health Reading (1) Critical reading of selected basic and applied research publications on environmental health problems and programs. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 581 ENV H 583 Thesis Research Proposal Preparation (1) Includes reviewing components of research proposals and practicing writing and developing effective aims, hypotheses, background materials, and analytic strategies for writing theses and presenting at scientific meetings. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 583 ENV H 584 Environmental Health Policy and Practice (4) Explores how environmental health problems are controlled in the United States by examining the policies and practices of environmental health. Covers how various government programs are established, organized, and operated to prevent or control hazards in the community, and the legal and regulatory framework behind them. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 584 ENV H 586 Current Issues in Occupational Health at the Human Animal Interface (2, max. 8) Problem-based seminar about the occupational health issues faced by workers with animal contact, including animal agriculture workers, veterinary workers, wildlife workers, and laboratory animal workers. Anchoring course for trainees in the Occupational Health at the Human Animal Interface (OHHAI) training grant. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 586 ENV H 590 Selected Topics (1-6, max. 20) In-depth study of a current environmental health topic. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 590 ENV H 591 Current Topics in Toxicology (2, max. 12) T. KAVANAGH, Z. XIA Provides in-depth examination of current topics in environmental and occupational toxicology taken from journal articles and seminars. Consists of presentations led by outside speakers, students, post-doctoral fellows, and faculty. Students expected to participate actively in discussion. Assigned weekly readings given according to the schedule of seminar speakers and topics. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 591 ENV H 592 Current topics in Occupational Health Sciences (1/3) Weekly discussion of current research on a broad range of topics relevant to occupational and environmental health including exposure assessment, occupational epidemiology, occupational hygiene, and control of environmental hazards. Presentations and discussion sessions designed to help students organize and prepare a critical analysis of research findings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 592 ENV H 593 Current Topics in Risk Assessment (2, max. 24) Examines current topics in risk assessment and risk communication with a focus on issues in environmental health. Consists of presentations led by students, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty. Students expected to participate actively in discussion. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 593 ENV H 594 Current Topics in Environmental Health (1, max. 2) Critical review and discussion of current scientific literature of particular relevance to the Environmental Health program. Primary presentations rotate among faculty and students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 594 ENV H 595 Research Rotation (3, max. 9) Research laboratory rotation for pre-doctoral graduate students. Students commit at least 10 hours per week to a laboratory research project aimed at introducing the student to current methods of laboratory research, and to familiarize the student with specific faculty research interests. Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of program director. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 595 ENV H 596 Current Issues in Occupational and Environmental Medicine (2/4, max. 12) Interdisciplinary seminar on current and emerging topics in the practice of environmental and occupational health. Faculty- and student-led presentations with an interdisciplinary focus, including occupational hygiene, nursing, and medical issues. Offered: jointly with NURS 580; SpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 596 ENV H 597 Case Studies in Environmental and Occupational Health (1, max. 12) Discusses clinical cases, recent journal articles, and global environmental health scenarios relevant to the clinical practice of environmental and occupational health. Explores collaborative management of environmental and occupational health-related illnesses and navigation of complex environmental health scenarios through real-world cases and critical analysis of published literature. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 597 ENV H 598 Degree Program Project/Portfolio ([1-9]-, max. 18) Supervised project work on a topic related to student's concentration in graduate study that results in a project paper. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 598 ENV H 599 Field Studies (2-6, max. 6) Assignment to an environmental research or service program to develop field research and evaluation skills. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 599 ENV H 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of departmental adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 600 ENV H 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Prerequisite: permission of departmental adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 700 ENV H 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Prerequisite: permission of departmental adviser. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ENV H 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022