Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception Implant What is the birth control implant? The birth control implant, is a long-acting progestin (hormone) method of birth control. The implant is inserted just under the skin of the inner side of the upper arm. The implant provides pregnancy protection for three years. After three years, it must be removed and a new one can be inserted. The implant is available under the brand names Implanon and Nexplanon. How does it work to prevent pregnancy? The implant releases a hormone that stops the release of an egg from ovary. The hormone also thickens the mucus in cervix and changes the lining of the uterus, which may keep sperm from reaching the egg. How effective is the implant in preventing pregnancy and STIs? When the implant is inserted correctly by an experienced provider, chances of getting pregnant when on Nexplanon are very low. There is less than one pregnancy per 100 users. The implant does not protect against HIV or other sexually transmitted infections. What are the benefits of using the implant? The implant is a safe, convenient, simple, and long-lasting reversible method of birth control. The ability to get pregnant returns quickly when the implant is removed. It can be used while breastfeeding and by those who cannot take estrogen. Other advantages are that there is no medicine to remember to take every day and nothing needs to be put in place before vaginal intercourse. What are the side effects? The most common side effect is a change in the menstrual bleeding pattern. Other side effects can include mood swings, weight gain, headaches, acne, depressed mood, vaginitis, breast pain, throat infection or flu-like symptoms, stomach pains, painful periods, nervousness, back pain, nausea, dizziness, pain, and/or pain at insertion location. Other rare but serious side effects include: Problems with insertion and removal: The implant could possibly not be inserted at all, or it might fall out, and pregnancy could occur. If the implant is not where it should be, then removal will be extremely difficult and may result in a hospitalization where it can be removed surgically. Ectopic pregnancy: If a pregnancy occurs while using Implanon, then there is a higher chance that the pregnancy will be ectopic, where the fetus develops outside of the uterus. Ovarian cysts: Cysts may develop. Some cysts go away on their own while some may need to be surgically removed. Blood clots: Implanon may increase the risk of serious blood clots. Hormonal contraception methods, like Implanon, can increase your risk for high blood pressure, gallbladder problems, or tumors in the liver. Important things to note: Make sure to tell your provider about any other medications you may be taking, since the use of some other medications while on Implanon may lower its effectiveness. Immediately after Implanon has been placed, you and your healthcare provider should check that the implant is in your arm by feeling it. Who should not use the birth control implant? You should not use the birth control implant if... You are pregnant or think you may be pregnant. Have had serious blood clots. Have liver disease or a liver tumor. Have unexpected vaginal bleeding. Have breast cancer or any cancer sensitive to progestin. You are allergic to anything in the implant. You have had or have breast cancer. You smoke. Smoking may increase your risk of developing serious blood clots while on Implanon. Where can I get the birth control implant and how much does it cost? If you are interested in getting the birth control implant, depending on your health insurance plan, Health Services may be able to provide the insertion on site and without cost or at low cost or can refer you to a local provider. Without insurance, at providers besides Health Services, the cost of the exam, insertion, and implant ranges from $400-1300. Removal of an implant costs between $100-300. Your health insurance may cover the cost of the implant in whole or in part. You can call your health insurance company to find out more about your coverage. Related Links For more information about Implanon and Nexplanon you can visit: Implanon manufacturer website Nexplanon manufacturer website Planned Parenthood About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook