Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Bursar Office Student Account and EBilling Bursar Office Student Account and EBilling Student Accounts and Electronic Billing: Electronic billing (E-Bill) is Brown University’s official method of billing as no paper statements are produced. View our E-Bill and Payment Guide for helpful details and login instructions. Electronic Statements are traditionally produced in late June for the fall semester (due August 1) and in mid-November for spring semester (due January 1). The Student Account Statement itemizes all charges and/or credits submitted by University departments for the term. Charges that may appear on the students account are Tuition & Fees, Bookstore charges (optional), Library Fines, Pharmacy Fees, Athletics Equipment Fees, and International Program Fees. Manage your Student Account online: An email is sent to the student's Brown email account and to the email address of their Authorized Users when a new statement is available. Electronic statements may be printed, downloaded, or saved to a file by logging into http://payment.brown.edu. It is strongly recommended that students set up parents and/or guardians as Authorized Users to view their student account, especially if they are dependent on their parents and/or guardians for financial assistance for educational expenses. After the official billing statement for each semester, students will receive automated email communications directed to their official Brown email address each time there are new transactions on the student account. Visit https://payment.brown.edu to review your balance, make payment, setup eRefund, give access to authorized users, and enroll in installment payment plans. Brown University eBill and Payment Guide (for help with your online account) Students - setup Authorized Users to view/pay your account Students - setup Two Factor Authentication, Payment Profile & Electronic Refund Make Payments or Schedule Future Payments Enroll in Installment Payment Plan View/Print Account Activity, Student Account Statement, or 1098T Statement Past Due Balances: Refer to Policies regarding past due balances. Memo Credits and Authorized Credits: The Adjusted Balance indicates the student account balance less expected aid from loans and scholarships. Authorized Credits (financial aid awaiting disbursement) and Memo Credits (incomplete/unsigned financial aid, alternative loans, outside scholarships, Installment Payment Plans, etc.) represent expected student aid not yet received and temporarily reduce the student account balance due (adjusted balance). Authorized Credits represent funds that will be credited as actual payments to the account once a specified date has passed. For example, Brown University is restricted from disbursing Federal funds to a student’s account until the student has officially enrolled for the term, classes have begun, and the student has completed all requirements. Therefore, any Federal funding may appear as an Authorized Credit until the term begins. Memo Credits temporarily reduce the student account balance owed and represent monies expected, but not yet received. Brown University attempts to acknowledge these sources and will do so for a reasonable period of time. Memo Credits may not be able to transition into Authorized Credits for various reasons. For example, a payer of any outside scholarship assistance on behalf of the student may not have sent in these proceeds, or a student may not have completed loan documents with the Loan Office; these must be completed before the student is entitled to a loan disbursement. If in doubt, the student may review their records in Banner Self Service for incomplete loan requirements. Students are ultimately responsible for ensuring that all Memo Credits become Authorized Credits. All unpaid Memo Credits are removed from the student account approximately 6 weeks into the term. Any outstanding balance becomes immediately due and payable by the student and is subject to any future late payment charges. Billing Sponsors of Outside Scholarships: Many scholarship sponsors will accept a copy of the student account statement. If a special billing invoice is required for the sponsor of an outside scholarship, please send the Bursar’s Office written confirmation of the scholarship and a request for a special billing invoice. The student account statement cannot be addressed to a scholarship sponsor. The Bursar’s Office will prepare a billing invoice and forward it directly to the sponsor. It is the student’s responsibility to follow up with the sponsor to ensure funds are received promptly by the University. Overpayments: Brown University will only accept payments to cover educational expenses that appear on the student account. Brown reserves the right to return any overpayments directly to the originating bank or the student/payer may opt to keep the credit on the account to cover future charges. Refund of Student Account Overpayments: Student account refunds of overpayments may be processed electronically and deposited directly into the students' U.S. personal checking or savings account. Returned Student Account Payments Any payment made, even if on a timely basis, that results in being returned for insufficient funds, lack of authorizing signature, etc. will result in the reversal of the payment and a $20 returned payment charge. In addition, a returned payment for a student account may result in a late payment charge if no other form of payment is received prior to the payment due date. Payers with two returned ACH payments due to insufficient funds within six months, will be restricted from making electronic payments through payment.brown.edu. Payers enrolled in Brown’s Installment Payment Plan (IPP) with one returned payment due to insufficient funds within the plan period, will be removed from the IPP and will need to make other payment arrangements. Bear Bucks Bear Bucks Account: The Bear Bucks Account (managed by the Brown Card Office) is an optional University maintained debit account designed to provide a convenient and safe way to make purchases and access services on campus. Funds deposited into this account may only be used on campus and cash withdrawals are prohibited. Account and balance information is recorded on the students Brown ID card and is confidential and can only be disclosed to the account holder. Home About First Year Students / New to Brown Student Account & Electronic Billing Tuition and Fees Financing & Payment Options Installment Payment Plan Policies 1098T & Education Tax Information Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1839 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2484 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Cashier's Office Loan Office Financial Services Resources Bookstore Brown Dining Health Insurance Home Student Life