Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Awards & Rankings Baylor>About Baylor>Facts & Figures>Awards & Rankings Awards & Rankings Baylor University enjoys high standing among many national rating services that evaluate quality of education, research activity, affordability, baccalaureate value, and athletic excellence. These rankings recognize not only Baylor as a whole, but also our many respected schools and departments, which are led by our gifted, award-winning professors. Their awards are too numerous to include. As of Fall 2020, 73% of students found a job or started graduate school within 90 days of graduation. Baylor's dedication in placing students after graduation further demonstrates the institution's commitment to the success of Bears beyond their time in the classroom. Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education recognizes Baylor University as a "Doctoral University: Very High Research Activity" or "Research 1" institution, joining the nation’s top-tier research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. Read more about Baylor University's Research 1 announcement by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education » U.S. News & World Report U.S. News & World Report ranks Baylor No. 76 on their annual review of colleges and universities. Baylor is ranked among the top national universities. The magazine also lists Baylor University as No. 48 in the Best Colleges for Veterans ranking, and No. 75 among Best Value Schools among national universities. Schools in the national universities category offer a full range of undergraduate majors, master's and doctoral degrees. These colleges also are committed to producing groundbreaking research. Read more about Baylor University's professional programs from the U.S. News & World Report » Read about Baylor's ranking in the U.S. News & World Report » Kiplinger: Best Values in Private Colleges Kiplinger's 2018 list of Best Values in Private Colleges ranks Baylor as No. 61 in the nation. The rankings consider academic quality and affordability. Read more in Kiplinger » Read more about the Kiplinger ranking » Fiske Guide The Fiske Guide to Colleges, a best-selling resource for college-bound students and their parents, lists Baylor University a "Best Buy" for 2017. Baylor is one of only 47 public and private colleges and universities in the United States, Canada and Great Britain to earn the designation. Read more about the Fiske Guide » American Council of Trustees and Alumni: What Will They Learn Baylor was one of only 23 universities nationwide to receive an "A" from the American Council of Trustees and Alumni in a 2015 report that gauges an institution's commitment to general education: composition, literature, foreign language at the intermediate level, U.S. government or history, economics, mathematics, and natural or physical science. What Will They Learn » Chronicle of Higher Education: Great Colleges to Work for 2021 For the tenth time, Baylor University has attained elite Honor Roll status as a “2021 Great College to Work For,” according to a new survey by The Chronicle of Higher Education, a top trade publication for colleges and universities. Baylor is included in the large university category with 10,000 or more students. Read more » Great Colleges to Work For 2021 » Athletics: The Director's Cup In the 2021-22 Learfield Director's Cup standings, Baylor ranked No. 45 in the nation. Baylor placed fifth among Big 12 universities, indicating the strength of the overall athletics program at Baylor. See the final Director's Cup rankings » Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) recognized Baylor University as one of the top performing colleges and universities in the 2019 Sustainable Campus Index, as measured by the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment and Rating System (STARS). The report also highlights best practices and sustainability innovations from more than 50 U.S., Canadian and Mexican institutions that have submitted a STARS report in the last 12 months. Baylor received Silver designation for its sustainability efforts for demonstrating significant commitment to advancing sustainability. 2019 Sustainability Index » Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System™ » College, Department and Program Rankings U.S. News U.S. News U.S. Army-Baylor doctor of physical therapy Speech-language pathology Department Ranking Links Accounting Program Hankamer School of Business Baylor's undergraduate accounting program ranks No. 47 in the U.S. News 2019 rankings. Read more » Public Accounting Report's 37th Annual Survey of Accounting Professors ranks Baylor's accounting undergraduate program at No. 35 in the nation. Read more » Baylor accounting graduate students ranked No. 6 in the U.S. (and tops in Texas) for overall pass rate for first-time candidates on the Uniform Certified Public Accountant (CPA) exam. BU students also led the state with the highest average score. Read more » Army-Baylor MHA | MBA Program Graduate School The U.S. Army-Baylor master's degree program in health care management was ranked the 9th best in the country in the 2022 U.S. News survey**. Read more » Army-Baylor MPT|DPT Program Graduate School The U.S. Army-Baylor doctoral degree program in physical therapy was ranked thirteenth nationally in the 2022 U.S. News survey**. Read more » Department of Biology College of Arts & Sciences The Department of Biology ranks No. 85 in the 2022 U.S. News survey of biological sciences graduate programs. Read more » Hankamer School of Business Hankamer was named the "Most Innovative Business School" in the southern U.S. by EuropeanCEO magazine. The publication applauded Baylor's holistic, global and entrepreneurial approach to education. Hankamer's European CEO Profile » Hankamer was ranked No. 29 among the "Top 100 Most Social Media Friendly Schools" by OnlineMBAPage.com. Read more » Chemistry College of Arts & Sciences The Department of Chemistry ranks No. 88 in the 2022 U.S. News survey of chemistry graduate programs. Read more » Earth Sciences College of Arts & Sciences The Department of Geology ranks No. 99 in the 2022 U.S. News survey of earth sciences graduate programs. Read more » EMBA Hankamer School of Business Baylor University's Executive MBA program is ranked 99th among U.S. and international programs, according to the Financial Times' 2019 rankings. The program’s 48 percent increase in salary ranked No. 2 in Texas. It is also No. 1 in Texas for women participating in the program and in the top 15 for U.S.-based programs. Read more » School of Education Baylor's School of Education was ranked No. 144 by the 2022 U.S. News survey of 438 graduate programs in education. Rankings are based on a weighted average of 10 quality measures, such as assessment by peers and superintendents nationwide, student selectivity, faculty resources, and research activity. Read more » School of Engineering Baylor's engineering program's graduate engineering program remains at No. 127 in the 2022 survey of engineering schools that grant doctoral degrees. In the engineering specialty rankings, Baylor’s graduate electrical engineering program moved up to No. 107, while the graduate program in mechanical engineering ranks at No. 112 in the 2022 survey. Read more about the 2019 graduate survey » English Department College of Arts & Sciences The English Department's graduate program ranks No. 99 in the 2022 U.S. News survey. Read more » John F. Baugh Center for Entrepreneurship Hankamer School of Business The Princeton Review ranks the program as No. 6 in the country in their 2019 rankings. Read more » U.S. News and World Report ranks Baylor's entrepreneurship program No. 8 among the nation's best entrepreneurship programs in its 2019 rankings. Read more » Department of Environmental Science College of Arts & Sciences Baylor's Department of Environmental Science ranks No. 30 in the nation based on the Academic Analytics 2017 database. Law School Baylor Law School was ranked No. 58 overall in U.S. News' "Top Schools" listing for 2022. In the law specialties rankings, Baylor's trial advocacy program ranked No. 2 in the nation. Read more » Mathematics Department College of Arts & Sciences The Department of Mathematics ranks No. 117 in the 2022 U.S. News survey of mathematics graduate programs. Read more » MBA Hankamer School of Business Baylor's Hankamer School of Business was ranked at No. 60 in the 2022 U.S. News survey among the top-rated master's programs in business accredited by AACSB International. In all, 486 MBA programs were surveyed. The MBA specialization in healthcare administration was ranked No. 17 in the 2015 U.S. News survey** of health care management programs. The graduate program in entrepreneurship rose to No. 10 in the 2022 U.S. News survey. Baylor’s online MBA program, which began in May 2014, was ranked No. 45 in the 2022 U.S. News survey based on factors such as admissions selectivity, reputation for excellence among peer institutions and academic and career support services offered to students. Read more about the 2015 survey » Read more about the 2018 survey » Read more about the 2019 survey » Read more about the 2022 survey » Louise Herrington School of Nursing The doctor of nursing practice (DNP), which includes programs in anesthesia nursing, executive nurse leadership, family nurse practitioner, neonatal nurse practitioner, nurse-midwifery and pediatric nurse practitioner @mdash; is ranked No. 60 nationally. Not newly ranked but noted in the Best Nursing specialty rankings are LHSON’s U.S. Army Graduate Program in Anesthesia Nursing (USAGPAN), which operates at the U.S. Army Medical Center of Excellence at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, at No. 8 nationally. The nursing-midwifery program ranked No. 21 in this survey. Read more about the 2022 survey » Philosophy College of Arts & Sciences Academic Analytics data from 2016 places Baylor’s Philosophy PhD program in the top quartile nationally in the percentage of faculty with a book publication. Equally impressive, the firm's ranking of overall faculty scholarly productivity (publications, citations, books, and awards) places Baylor's Philosophy PhD program in the top 40 nationally, along with much older and more established programs such as Stanford University. Department of Physics College of Arts & Sciences The Department of Physics ranks No. 124 in the 2022 U.S. News survey of physics graduate programs. Read more » Center for Professional Selling Hankamer School of Business The Sales Education Foundation named Baylor's Center for Professional Selling a 2018 top program. Established in 1985 as the first sales center in the country, the center has gained prominence among national sales programs through its contributions as a full member of the University Sales Center Alliance (USCA), participation in 12 annual sales competitions, and its preparation of some of the finest sales professionals in the country. Read more » Department of Psychology College of Arts & Sciences Counseling Psychology ranks Baylor's Department of Psychology and Neuroscience's Psy.D. degree program No. 15 nationally, and BestCounselingDegrees.net lists the department's Psy.D. degree program in Clinical Psychology as No. 1 nationally. Baylor's graduate program in psychology was ranks No. 98 in the 2022 U.S. News survey. Read more » Read more » Counseling Psychology article » BestCounselingDegrees.net article » Read more about the 2019 survey » Clinical Psychology College of Arts & Sciences Baylor's doctoral program in clinical psychology (PsyD) moved up No. 62 in the 2017 U.S. News survey**. Read more » Department of Religion College of Arts & Sciences According to Academic Analytics data from 2016, Baylor's doctoral program in religion ranked in the top 10 nationally in total book publications and in overall productivity, which places Baylor at the same general levels as programs such as Duke University and Yale University. Public Health Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences According to Academic Analytics data from 2022, Baylor's Master’s of Public Health (MPH) degree program with specializations in community health, environmental health science or epidemiology in the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences, at No. 72. degree in the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences at No. 13. (U.S. Army-Baylor health programs are operated at the U.S. Army Medical Center of Excellence at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio.) in the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences at No. 55. Read more » School of Social Work The School of Social Work was ranked No. 16 in GraduatePrograms.com's 2018 national rankings. The school's master's degree program in social work moved up to No. 59 in the 2022 U.S. News survey**. GraduatePrograms.com Rankings » Read more about the 2022 survey » Sociology College of Arts & Sciences U.S. News ranks the Baylor graduate program in sociology at No. 84 in its 2022 survey. Read more » Speech-Language Pathology Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences The university's speech-language pathology graduate program was ranked No. 69 in the 2017 U.S. News survey**. Read more » Department of Statistical Science College of Arts & Sciences The Department of Statistical Science ranks No. 83 in the 2022 U.S. News survey of graduate statistics programs. Read more » Student Publications The Columbia Scholastic Press Association awarded Baylor Student Publications three Crown awards. Read more » Columbia Scholastic Press Association » * Conducted every 10 years ** Latest survey available Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories