Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »About K-State »Stats and Strengths About K-State Home Leadership Office of the President Office of the Provost K-State 2025 See all of Leadership Campuses Manhattan Olathe Salina Global See all of Campuses Values Putting Students First Diversity and Inclusion Principles of Community See all of Values Stats and Strengths Rankings Achievements Faculty Honors National Scholars Engagement and Impact See all of Stats and Strengths History and Traditions Traditions War Memorials Honorary Degrees See all of History and Traditions Careers Faculty Staff Internal Students See all of Careers Stats and Strengths home Rankings Achievements All-University Awards University Faculty Students Past Achievements CASE awards News makers Faculty Honors Endowed Positions Promotions and Tenure University Distinguished Professors Fellows National Scholars Rhodes Marshall Truman Goldwater Udall Phi Kappa Phi Engagement and Impact Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 k-state@k-state.edu Stats and Strengths If the proof is in the numbers, our case is clear. From first-year freshmen to tenured professors to entire departments, K-Staters are known for aiming high, and then looking even higher. K-State is consistently ranked in the top 10 for many prominent Princeton Review rankings, we boast some of the highest numbers of national scholars in a public university, and our experts are called on to solve problems around the world. It's safe to say that these accomplishments are just the tip of the purple iceberg, and we have no intention of slowing down. Prioritizing diversity and inclusion efforts Kansas State University has been nationally recognized eight years in a row with the Higher Education Excellence in Diversity, or HEED Award. INSIGHT into Diversity Magazine, 2021 The Silicon Valley for biodefense At a bipartisan Blue Ribbon Study Panel on biodefense, Tom Daschle, former Senate majority leader, refers to K-State as "the Silicon Valley for biodefense.” 4 Feed the Future labs The labs are funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development. $218.6 million FY 2019 research expenditures. Bachelor’s degrees: 96% job placement rate Percentage of bachelor’s degree graduate survey respondents who were employed or enrolled in further education within six months of graduation. Master’s degrees: 97% job placement rate Percentage of master’s degree graduate survey respondents who were employed or enrolled in further education within six months of graduation. University metrics To learn more about the university's progress on our key K-State 2025 benchmark metrics, view our university metrics. Home of the new $1.25 billion National Bio and Agro-defense Facility, developed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security At a Glance Founded in 1863 More than 20,000 total students 1,367 full-time faculty 3,068 full-time staff 250+ academic undergraduate majors and programs 165+ graduate degrees and certificates Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 2/4/22