Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Biology Bachelor of Science Bachelor's Degree in Biology Overview Georgia Tech’s bachelor of science in Biology degree offers students an outstanding education in the life sciences and excellent preparation for future careers in biological and health-related fields. The B.S. in Biology degree offers: Flexible degree options: The degree can be customized to fit specific interests and career goals. Undergraduate research: From research courses to international research trips, internships, and teaching experiences, the possibilities are endless. Atlanta: One of the most tech-savvy cities in the U.S. and home to some of the world’s biggest companies. As a Biology major, you will develop a basic competence and knowledge of biological processes, including cell and molecular biology, genetics, ecology, and evolution. You will develop a strong understanding of scientific thinking, as well as the know-how to apply scientific methodology to solve real-life problems. Undergraduate Biology Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Customize your curriculum plan to match your specific interests and career plans. Focus your electives to earn a Biological Sciences Certificate in these areas: Biomedical Science Biomolecular Technology Bio-Inspired Design Computational & Quantitative Biology Environmental Science Marine Science Integrative Biology Applied Physiology Build a business perspective into your degree. Learn about the Business Option. Go above and beyond the minimum pre-health requirements without adding extra hours to your degree. Learn about the Pre-Health Track. Options Increase your competitiveness for jobs and graduate school by adding a designation to your degree. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience. Learn more about the Research Option. Develop cultural competency and prepare for a global career. Learn more about the International Plan. Bachelor's Degree in Biology Requirements The Bachelor’s in Biology degree requirements include general education core classes; foundational science courses; Biology core courses to provide a strong background in biological thinking; technical Biology electives to explore content areas in greater depth, and experiential learning to apply biological concepts to undergraduate research, internships, or teaching. Download a suggested four-year schedule. Biology Degree Courses Biological Principles and Organismal Biology: A two-semester introduction to the basic principles of modern biology, including biomacromolecules, bioenergetics, cell structure, genetics, homeostasis, evolution, ecological relationships, and organisms. Ecology: Introduction to ecological processes at individual, population, and community levels that occur in plant, animal, and microbial taxa, and their relevance to current environmental problems. Genetics: A rigorous introduction to molecular and population genetics that includes modern gene editing techniques. Cell and Molecular Biology: A deeper dive into the structure and function of cells and their organelles with emphasis on eukaryotic cellular and molecular processes.* Experimental Design and Statistics: Theory and practice on how to apply the appropriate parametric statistics to datasets for correct biological interpretation.* *Program alumni who attend Medical School highlight these courses, among others, as instrumental to their success. View all of the B.S. in Biology requirements and course descriptions Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s School of Biology faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions to their fields. Examples of such recognition include: Mark E. Hay, Regents Professor and Harry and Linda Teasley Chair in the School of Biological Sciences at Georgia Tech, is the recipient of the 2018 Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal of the National Academy of Sciences. The award recognizes excellence in published research on marine and freshwater algae. For his contributions to the field of viral ecology, Joshua Weitz has been elected a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Brian Hammer and Joel Kostka have been named American Society for Microbiology (ASM) Distinguished Lecturers. T. Richard Nichols, a professor in the School of Biological Sciences, has been named an honorary member of the American Physical Therapy Association. Francesca Storici is a Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) Faculty Scholar, supporting her innovative research in RNA-driven DNA repair and genome editing. What Can You Do with a Degree in Biology? The undergraduate curriculum for the Bachelor of Science in Biology degree is designed to prepare students for employment in academia, government, or industry; for science teaching or graduate studies in the biological sciences; or for admission to medical, dental, or veterinary schools. What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? They are: Medical students. Graduate students at highly ranked U.S. universities. Physician’s assistants. Clinical research coordinators. Product researchers. Meet School of Biological Sciences alumni Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Microbiologist: $69,960 Occupational Health and Safety Specialist: $67,720 High School Teacher: $59,170 Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Biology Research for Undergraduates Georgia Tech has one of the biggest research enterprises in the country and provides exceptional research opportunities to Biology majors. You'll have the opportunity to join a lab team led by a faculty mentor who will guide you in cutting-edge biological research. Find out more about opportunities in undergraduate research Beyond the Classroom Join one of the many Biology-related student organizations. See what’s available here. Gain direct, hands-on experience using your Biology degree in ways that can lead to employment directly after graduation. Find out more about Biology internships. Work closely with Biology faculty members to deliver content in introductory Biology labs and Biology core courses. Find out more about Biology Teaching Assistant opportunities. Develop new skills and contribute to a long-term research goal. Find out more about Vertically Integrated Projects. Study Biology around the world. Learn more about our international opportunities. Stories from the School of Biological Sciences Undergrad with a Genuine Passion for Medicine and Service How a Research Fellow Creates a Career in Astrobiology Meet Shana Kerr, Extraordinary Educator Tiny Bacteria Do a Big Job for a Huge Fish Tank Related Degrees B.S./M.S. Biology B.S./M.S. Biology and Bioinformatics Physiology Minor Related Websites College of Sciences School of Biological Sciences Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login