Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityOffice of Economic Engagement Office of Economic Engagement About Staff Contact Us Corporate Engagement Talent and Recruitment Access Research Explore Research Centers Professional Development Opportunities Increase Outreach and Visibility Partnership Examples Technology Transfer Technology Transfer Home What is Technology Transfer? Benefits of Technology Transfer For Inventors Submit an Invention Disclosure For Our Partners Available Technologies Marquette Startups Community Engagement Highlights Impact En Español How Do We Define Community Engagement? How to Partner Past Events MU Engage - Student Community Engagement Database Awards and Honors Community Engagement Symposium Community Engagement Stories The President's Challenge Marquette Forum Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources Community Engagement News and Events The Power of Community Check out our efforts in community engagement documented through the 2019 brochure "The Power of Community." Created in collaboration with a local artist, this brochure highlights the many bi-directional and mutually beneficial partnerships between Marquette and the greater community. This brochure is one of the many steps Marquette is taking to better tell the story of engagement and highlight the amazing work of students, faculty, staff and community partners. View the full brochure here Something Special Brewing in Milwaukee President’s Challenge for Racial Justice and Equity Response winners announced Next Step Clinic Opens at Next Door The Truth About Segregation: A Q&A with Reggie Jackson, head griot of America’s Black Holocaust Museum Educating Milwaukee’s Future Sharing Hope Changed Landscape Quick Links Highlights Impact En Español How Do We Define Community Engagement? How to Partner Past Events MU Engage - Student Community Engagement Database Awards and Honors Community Engagement Symposium Community Engagement Stories The President's Challenge Poverty Research Initiative Marquette Forum PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact nadine.desmarais@marquette.edu. Near West Side Partners Five anchor corporations that have thrived on Milwaukee's Near West Side for cumulatively hundreds of years unite to promote neighborhood assets, reduce crime and create a collaborative model of community redevelopment. Behavior Clinic at Marquette Through a collaborative project with Penfield Children's Center, a 2016 Community Engaged Partnership Award winner, Dr. Alan Burkard leads the Behavior Clinic at Marquette, providing mental health services. Learning through the Love of the Game MKE LAX is a weekly after-school program during which coaches and student-athletes on the men's and women's lacrosse teams will conduct mentoring sessions and lacrosse practices with students enrolled at the Milwaukee Academy of Science. Location Marquette University Zilber Hall, 360 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-3033 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©