Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > Education > College of Dental Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine College of Dental Medicine The Columbia College of Dental Medicine (CDM) offers dental training within an exceptional academic environment. We strive to educate the world's future leaders in dentistry by combining a rigorous academic curriculum, cutting-edge research, and a commitment to compassionate patient care. As one of four dental schools in the U.S. that combine dental education with a medical school curriculum, CDM recognizes that oral health is inextricably linked to overall health. Our Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) students spend their preclinical years studying alongside medical students from Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Our postdoctoral programs provide specialized study in key dental specialty fields. Our hospital-based residency programs are affiliated with NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. In all programs, our esteemed faculty are experts in their respective fields with extensive teaching and clinical experience. Research at CDM reflects the ever-expanding definition of dental medicine—building upon advances in basic science, oral health, and social sciences. Groundbreaking research in areas like biomaterials, regenerative biology, and stem cell treatments help pave the way for tomorrow's dental innovations. As part of Columbia University Irving Medical Center, CDM leverages our position within a world-class academic medical center to support our shared goals of advancing patient care, education, and research. As part of the Washington Heights community and through our global programs, we foster connections and improve access to care for all. Explore the Columbia College of Dental Medicine ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Research Research Education The College of Dental Medicine's innovative predoctoral curriculum and many postdoctoral opportunities prepare each new generation of leaders to bridge the gap between medicine and dentistry. Learn About Our Programs Learn About Our Programs Global Programs Global Programs Teaching Clinics Teaching Clinics Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top