Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Media Mentions You are here Home About News & Media Media Mentions Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Featured Article via Philadelphia Inquirer on June 08, 2021 Temple hires Chestnut Hill resident and former Ivy League school dean as its next president By Sue Snyder Temple University on Tuesday tapped a Philadelphia resident whose career has straddled both business and academia, with previous leadership... via KALW Public Media on May 12, 2022 The complex state-by-state legal issues that will arise if Roe is overturned By Rose Aguilar On this edition of Your Call, Rachel Rebouche, interim dean of the Beasley School of Law, joins the show to discuss The New Abortion Battleground... via South China Morning Post on May 12, 2022 Will Biden's Indo-Pacific strategy, hesitancy to join CPTPP overshadow Japan visit? By Julian Ryall “There is not a snowball in hell’s chance that Biden will be able to get anything through Congress to rejoin the CPTPP,” said Jeff Kingston,... via Philadelphia Inquirer on May 11, 2022 Recruiting roundup: Temple’s Stan Drayton secures two more Power 5 transfers; St. Joe’s basketball signs Australian forward Loui By Gustav Elvin It was a busy Wednesday recruiting-wise for Philadelphia schools on the gridiron and the basketball court. Temple football announced three more... via Marketplace on May 11, 2022 Rates on Treasury notes just went up. So will the cost of federal student loans. By Stephanie Hughes Mark Huelsman is the director of policy and advocacy at the Hope Center for College, Community, and Justice at Temple University. “They’re going... via USA Today on April 12, 2022 Diverse schools are taking a new approach to anti-racism: Training white parents By Gail Cornwall When cities experience an influx of higher-income residents, changes to a neighborhood include displacement of preexisting community members. A... via South China Morning Post on April 12, 2022 South Korea's 'antifeminist' Yoon vowed to axe women's ministry, but can he? By Agence France-Presse Many experts now expect Yoon to “rebrand” rather than abolish the ministry, pointing to how his victory has refocused global attention on sexism... via CBS3 on April 12, 2022 Temple University introduces Diane Richardson as new women’s basketball coach Temple University introduced its new women’s basketball head coach on Wednesday. Diane Richardson spoke with the media at the Liacouras Center.... via Channel News Asia on April 11, 2022 Abolish or rebrand? South Korea's ‘feminist’ ministry in crosshairs Many experts now expect Yoon to “rebrand” rather than abolish the ministry, pointing to how his victory has refocused global attention on sexism... via Becker's Hospital Review on April 11, 2022 10 most diverse medical schools: U.S. News By Kelly Gooch As part of its annual best graduate schools lists, U.S. News & World Report worked with the Robert Graham Center, a division of the American... via The Atlantic on April 11, 2022 Why American teens are so sad By Derek Thompson The third fallacy is that today’s mental health crisis was principally caused by the pandemic and an overreaction to COVID-19. “Rising teenage... via KYW Newsradio on April 10, 2022 Temple alum Adjoa B. Asamoah champions CROWN Act, racial equity By Antionette Lee Adjoa B. Asamoah refers to herself as a “movement baby.” Born to activist and organizer parents, it’s no surprise that Asamoah’s path has led her... via Philadelphia Inquirer on April 10, 2022 Owls have a ‘pretty doggone good day’ in Coach Stan Drayton’s first Cherry and White scrimmage By Sam Cohn and Isabella DiAmore Temple students, alumni and community members gathered at the corner of 10th and Diamond streets for hot dogs, burgers, and Temple’s Cherry and... via The Guardian on April 07, 2022 Mail-order abortion pills become next US reproductive rights battleground By Adrienne Matei Already, says Rachel Rebouché, interim dean of Temple University’s law school, people seeking medication abortions can use social media to find... via The 19th News on April 07, 2022 Supreme Court’s upcoming abortion ruling will spark a new round of questions about legality and access By Shefali Luthra “What happens then? Does that law become revived? I think there has to be some kind of state action to either implement the law, or act under it... via Times of India on April 07, 2022 Incoming South Korean president backtracks on scrapping gender ministry But Yoon “can still incite his base and push back against the women’s equality agenda through speeches, statements and his rhetoric,” Linda... via The New York Times on April 06, 2022 An Afrofuturism festival brings an energy shift to Carnegie Hall By Giovanni Russonello “You can call Afrofuturism the high culture of the African diaspora right now,” Reynaldo Anderson, a Temple University scholar and a co-founder of... via The Philadelphia Tribune on April 06, 2022 Temple President Wingard bikes through North Philadelphia to meet with residents about campus safety By Brian Saunders Temple University President Jason Wingard and Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Ken Kaiser, along with Temple Police, hopped on... via Philadelphia Inquirer on April 06, 2022 Diane Richardson plans to reshape the Temple women’s basketball program through hard work By Sam Cohn and Isabella DiAmore Arthur Johnson sent a text to one of Dawn Staley’s South Carolina assistants the same night the Gamecocks beat Creighton 80-50 to advance to the... via 6ABC News on April 06, 2022 Temple names Diane Richardson as new women’s basketball coach Temple named Diane Richardson its new women’s basketball coach on Tuesday. Richardson went 80-66 in five seasons at Towson, including this season’... via Associated Press on April 05, 2022 Temple names Diane Richardson as new women’s hoops coach Temple named Diane Richardson its new women’s basketball coach on Tuesday. Richardson went 80-66 in five seasons at Towson, including this season’... via Wired on April 03, 2022 The future of NFTs lies with the courts By Jessica Rizzo “It’s unfortunate,” says Erika Douglas, a professor at the Temple University Beasley School of Law who teaches a course on the regulation of... via Poets&Quants on March 25, 2022 2021 best undergraduate professors: Sheri L. Lambert, Temple University, Fox School of Business By Kristy Bleizeffer Sheri L. Lambert, 56, is an assistant professor of practice in marketing at Fox School of Business at Temple University, where she’s worked since... via Females in Motorsports on March 22, 2022 “I received death threats for a month” Female motorsport fans fight for their place in the sport By Gemma Roper Katie Sveinson, assistant professor in the School of Sport, Tourism, and Hospitality Management at Temple University in Philadelphia, has written... via The Philadelphia Inquirer on March 21, 2022 A Temple grad decided he had to help Ukrainian refugees—and headed to Poland By Jeff Gammage When Temple University graduate Dharmik Sheth took off for Poland, deciding in a minute’s time to help the Ukrainian refugees flooding into the... via PEW Chartiable Trust on March 21, 2022 States grapple with allowing high school athlete endorsements By Alex Brown “High school athletes don’t really have a lot of [endorsement] value,” said Thilo Kunkel, director of the Sport Industry Research Center at Temple... Load more Go back to AboutMore in News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.