Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Friday, Sept. 25, 2015 Media contact: Eric Eckert Email: Eric_M_Eckert@baylor.edu Office phone: (254) 710-1964 Mobile phone: (254) 652-0398 Leadership and Innovation Summit features panel discussions with industry executives, conversation with General Electric CEO Jeffrey Immelt Some of today’s leading voices in technology, energy and health care will address the challenges faced by their industries and what the future holds at the 2015 Leadership and Innovation Summit Friday, Sept. 25, at Baylor University. The summit is the capstone of a day-long celebration of the dedication of Baylor’s new $100 million Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation. The 2015 Leadership and Innovation Summit will feature three Q&A forums with key industry leaders and executives in the areas of technology, energy and health care. The celebration will be capped off with an innovation forum featuring a conversation between Baylor President and Chancellor Ken Starr and Jeffrey Immelt, chairman and CEO of General Electric. Schedule of Events 10 a.m. - Doors Open 11 a.m. - Dedication Ceremony - Meyers Conference Center Note: A mult box will be provided. A microphone check will be conducted at 10:30 a.m. Due to scheduling, none will be accommodated after that point. 2015 Leadership + Innovation Summit - Hankamer Atrium Noon - Technology Forum and Luncheon • Godfrey Sullivan, president, CEO and chairman, Splunk • Bob Beauchamp, chairman and CEO, BMC Software • Trent Voigt, founder and CEO, JetPay Payment Services • Forum facilitator: Rick Welday, president, AT&T AdWorks 2 p.m. - Energy Forum • Paul L. Foster, chairman and executive chairman, Western Refining • Mark McCollum, executive vice president and CIO, Halliburton • Bob Simpson, co-founder, XTO • Forum facilitator: Ray Perryman, president and CEO, The Perryman Group 3 p.m. - Networking with Students - Julie & Jim Turner Mezzanine 4 p.m. - Health Care Forum • Joel Allison, CEO, Baylor Scott & White Health • Jon Foster, president, American Group, HCA • Laura Irvine, executive vice president, Methodist Health System • Forum facilitator: Dr. Ed Trevathan, executive vice president and provost, Baylor University 6:30 p.m. - Innovation Forum and VIP Dinner - Meyer Conference Center Conversation with Baylor President and Chancellor Ken Starr and Jeffrey Immelt, chairman & CEO, General Electric Media note: All events, except the dedication ceremony, are invite-only. Live streaming All panel discussions will be streamed live. The conversation between Judge Starr and Jeffrey Immelt will not be streamed. Media Credentials Media is invited to attend the dedication ceremony and panel discussions. Please submit your name and media outlet for credentials to Eric_M_Eckert@baylor.edu. Deadline for credentials is Wednesday, Sept. 23, 2015. If you are unable to attend, the forums will be streamed live. Parking Credentialed media will receive a parking pass via email. Media parking will be on the top three floors of the Speight Parking Garage, 1521 S. 4th Street. Parking passes will be needed for the event. Media Accommodations • When arriving at the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation, the media entrance is located at the southwest corner of the building, the entrance closest to the designated parking garage. To accommodate you and your equipment, this entrance is NOT the same entrance that will be used by dedication and summit attendees. • Media will have a designated room (Foster 121) for check-in and storing of equipment. This room will also be open throughout the day for you to use. • Wi-fi will be available and will be assigned, per person, per device, at check-in. If you have a data plan, please feel free to use that system instead. • Bottled water will be provided. • A mult box will be provided during the dedication ceremony and the panel discussions. Note: A microphone check will take place at 10:30 a.m. for the dedication ceremony. Due to scheduling, none will be accommodated after that point. • A designated media area will be provided for the dedication ceremony and the panel discussions. Note: We ask that cameras and operators please stay in these designated areas. We anticipate that space will be tight. • Panelists for the forums on energy, technology and health care will be available briefly for interviews following their respective forums. ABOUT PAUL L. FOSTER CAMPUS FOR BUSINESS AND INNOVATION Following a remarkably successful fundraising campaign - including an historic $35 million gift from El Paso businessman and Baylor graduate Paul L. Foster, B.B.A. '79, and major gifts from more than 500 additional donors - construction on the Foster Campus began in December 2013 on property along Bagby Avenue between Third and Fourth Streets. Faculty and staff moved into the building over the summer, and students began classes in the Foster Campus on Aug. 24. "That day was an important milestone in the life of the Hankamer School of Business as our students began to experience all that our new home, the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation, has to offer," said Terry Maness. D.B.A., dean of the Hankamer School of Business. "It was exciting for me to see the students begin to explore all the new features of the Foster Campus, from social collaboration spaces to student team meeting rooms to enhanced technology and a variety of different kinds of learning spaces. The Foster Campus will significantly enrich the learning experiences for our students." The Foster Campus expands the size of the business school by 40 percent and increases opportunities for student and faculty collaboration across areas of business, science and technology. The building's architectural design features a highly corporate and sustainable business environment, including the centerpiece Hankamer Atrium that showcases some of the school's signature classrooms, such as the Financial Markets Center. A variety of classroom learning spaces incorporate the latest classroom technology while providing flexibility to adapt as technology advances. The 350-seat McClinton Auditorium can accommodate a wide range of guest lectures and events, and the adjacent Meyer Conference Center will host seminars, symposia and conferences for business professionals of all kinds. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution, characterized as having "high research activity" by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The University provides a vibrant campus community for approximately 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Baylor sponsors 19 varsity athletic teams and is a founding member of the Big 12 Conference. ABOUT HANKAMER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS Baylor University's Hankamer School of Business, housed in the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation, provides a rigorous academic experience, consisting of classroom and hands-on learning, guided by Christian commitment and a global perspective. Recognized nationally for several programs, including Entrepreneurship and Accounting, the school offers 24 undergraduate and 13 graduate areas of study. Visit www.baylor.edu/business and follow on Twitter at twitter.com/Baylor_Business. Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena