Skip navigation Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Home / The Core Curriculum / The Classes / The Undergraduate Writing Program Main menu The Core Curriculum The Classes Literature Humanities Explore the Literature LitHum Reader About Literature Humanities Lit Hum 75th Anniversary Contemporary Civilization University Writing Staff Writing Center Resources Applying to Teach The Morningside Review Art Humanities Music Humanities Frontiers of Science Requirements Science Requirement Global Core Requirement Foreign Language Requirement Physical Education Requirement Core Registration & Core Policy Core Scholars Program Core Curriculum Prizes Committee on the Core Course-wide Lectures History of the Core Center for the Core Curriculum A Committee for the Second Century of the Core Core Faculty Committee Instructor Log In The Undergraduate Writing Program What is University Writing? ENGL CC/GS1010: University Writing, is a one-semester seminar designed to facilitate students’ entry into the intellectual life of the university by teaching them to become more capable and independent academic readers and writers. The course emphasizes habits of mind and skills that foster students’ capacities for critical analysis, argument, revision, collaboration, meta-cognition, and research. Students read and discuss essays from a number of fields, complete regular informal reading and writing exercises, compose several longer essays, and devise a research-based project of their own design. The Essays Students Will Write: Essay 1: Students analyze a single text. Essay 2: Students put multiple texts in conversation with one another. Essay 3: Students make a researched argument using 8-10 sources. Essay 4: Students write an op-ed for a publication with a wide audience. To read student essays from the course, see The Morningside Review. Courses of Instruction: ENGL CC/GS1010: University Writing (3 points) focuses on developing students’ reading, writing, and thinking, drawing from readings on a designated course theme that carry a broad appeal to people with diverse interests. No University Writing class presumes that students arrive with prior knowledge in the theme of the course. We are offering the following themes this year: UW: Contemporary Essays, CC/GS1010.001-.099 UW: Readings in American Studies, CC/GS1010.1xx UW: Readings in Gender and Sexuality, CC/GS1010.2xx UW: Readings in Film and Performing Arts, CC/GS1010.3xx UW: Readings in Human Rights, CC/GS1010.4xx UW: Readings in Data and Society, CC/GS1010.5xx UW: Readings in Medical Humanities, CC/GS1010.6xx UW: Readings in Law & Justice, CC/GS1010.7xx UW: Readings in Race and Ethnicity, CC/GS1010.8xx University Writing for International Students, CC/GS1010.9xx For further information on course requirements in general: CC and SEAS students: Center for Student Advising, 403 Lerner Hall GS students should contact their advisor. --------------------------------------------- Spring 2022 Registration Deadlines: For CC/SEAS students only: To change from one University Writing section to another, Starting January 10, please email us three choices in which you want us to consider placing you. We will take these up to Thursday, January 13, 3 pm, to english-cc1010-petitions@columbia.edu. Please use your uni email, not a name alias. After that, section changes for Core conflicts only may be petitioned up until Wednesday, January 19, 4 pm. Note 1: Your choices must be sections that have openings in them. We do not over-enroll sections. Note 2: In order to change sections you cannot have a schedule conflict in any course in your schedule. Note 3: Your credit load after the change must not exceed the maximum for your school. You should consult with your academic advisor regarding credit loads. To trade University Writing sections with another student: The most efficient way for a student to change their section is to find someone with whom to trade. If two students email our office wishing to change into each other's section, we can do that almost immediately. We will start accepting petitions on January 10. See link to the right of this page for the form. Note 1: In order to change sections neither student can have a schedule conflict in any course in their schedule. Note 2: Each student's credit load after the change must not exceed the maximum for their school. Please use your uni emails, not a name alias. Students should consult with their academic advisors regarding credit loads. Send the petition as either a Word doc or as a pdf. General Studies students: Students may change GS UW sections only online. Students who have questions should talk to their advisors. For all students: There are no waitlists for UW, and instructors cannot add or drop students from their sections. Students should follow the procedure of their school in order to add/drop a section. To maintain the learning environment that the course requires, sections are capped at 14 and never over-enrolled. --------------------------------------- Please email John Stobo, jrs9@columbia.edu, the UWP administrative assistant, if you have any questions. Contact Us 310 Philosophy, MC 4995 Columbia University New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-3886 uwp@columbia.edu Form For Trading UW Sections, Spring 2022 (12.56 KB) Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page