Skip to main content About History Staff Previous Directors Fellows & Advisors Faculty Policy Advisory Board Job Openings Research Research Category Housing Markets & Conditions Aging Homeownership Affordability Rental Housing Demographics & Projections Remodeling Neighborhood Change Signature Reports The State of the Nation's Housing Improving America's Housing America's Rental Housing Housing America's Older Adults Special Projects Books Symposia & Other Projects Calendar Upcoming Events Previous Events JOHN T. DUNLOP LECTURE Students Fellowships Grants Prizes STUDENT GROUPS News & Media In the Media Press Releases Blog Covid-19 Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies Summer Fellows Announced With support from our Center, 28 Harvard students will spend this summer researching and working on a host of issues related to housing and community development. Read More Census 2020: 'Use With Caution' How does our research team make use of experimental estimates the Census Bureau released for the 2020 American Community Survey (ACS), which was affected significantly by pandemic disruptions? Read More Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University The Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies helps leaders in government, business, and the civic sectors make decisions that effectively address the needs of cities and communities. Learn More previous slide next slide In the Media In the Media Rising interest rates and soaring home prices put mortgage payments out of reach for many Marketplace The other thing that’s making buying less... In the Media When the Best Available Home Is the One You Already Have The New York Times By 2019, there were actually 3.6 million fewer... In the Media In California, tenants of a mobile home park try — but fail — to stop a corporate takeover PBS NewsHour A 2019 report from the Joint Center for Housing... REPORTS & PAPERS Concentration in the Homebuilding Industry: Trends, Strategies, and Prospects April 19, 2022 Although still fragmented, the homebuilding industry has undergone changes in recent years that have increased the share of production by larger builders. The top 100 builders nationally now account for about half of all new single-family home sales, up from just over a third two decades ago. However, most of these gains reflect the growing market share of just two home construction companies – D.R. Horton and Lennar. How Well Does the Housing Stock Meet Accessibility Needs? An Analysis of the 2019 American Housing Survey March 7, 2022 A poor fit between the physical design of the home and a resident’s functional ability can endanger the resident’s health and housing stability. This research used the Accessibility Module of the 2019 American Housing Survey (AHS) to understand national trends in housing fit, or the alignment between a resident’s needs and the home. “The Rent Eats First”: Rental Housing Unaffordability in the United States February 12, 2022 The United States is in a housing affordability crisis, with nearly half of all renter households spending more than 30% of their incomes on rent and utilities each month. Whereas housing policy has relied on percentage-of-income measures to indicate whether housing is affordable, researchers over the last three decades have called for a residual income approach that uses spending estimates to calculate what a household can actually afford. This article examines the extent of the affordability crisis by comparing standard cost burden rates for working-age renter households with residual-income cost burdens. Blog David Luberoff Deputy Director Our 2022 Summer Fellows Will Tackle a Range of Housing-Related Projects and Problems Wednesday, May 18, 2022 With support from our Center, 28 graduate students from the Harvard Graduate School of Design (GSD) and the... Don Layton Senior Industry Fellow The Policymaking Implications of Record-High Mortgage Origination Profits During the Pandemic Monday, May 2, 2022 On April 11, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA), the largest of the industry associations in housing... Daniel McCue Senior Research Associate Defining “Use with Caution”: How We’re Navigating New Census Bureau Data Thursday, April 28, 2022 Pandemic disruptions affected the 2020 American Community Survey (ACS) results so significantly that... Abbe Will Senior Research Associate & Associate Project Director, Remodeling Futures Red Hot Remodeling Growth Expected to Ease into 2023 Thursday, April 21, 2022 Expenditures for improvements and repairs to the owner-occupied housing stock are expected to grow throughout... Load more ABOUT JCHS The Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies advances understanding of housing issues and informs policy. Through its research, education, and public outreach programs, the Center helps leaders in government, business, and the civic sectors make decisions that effectively address the needs of cities and communities. Through graduate and executive courses, as well as fellowships and internship opportunities, the Center also trains and inspires the next generation of housing leaders. Sign up for our mailing list Select all you are interested in News Blog Events © 2022 Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies EU/EEA Privacy Disclosures Digital Accessibility Policy