Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager STIs Hepatitis B What is hepatitis B? Hepatitis B is an infection in the liver caused by the hepatitis B virus. It is the most common contagious liver disease and is 100 times more contagious than HIV. Though not commonly thought of as a sexually transmitted infection (STI), hepatitis B is often spread through sexual activity. In the US, the hepatitis B vaccination is routinely given in infancy and vaccination is required for college students. Is it common? The incidence of hepatitis B is highest in the 20 to 29-year-old age group. In the US, about 19,000 people get this infection each year and an estimated 850,000-2.2 million people who have been exposed to hepatitis B carry the virus in their bodies. How is it transmitted? Hepatitis B is transmitted by direct contact with the blood or body fluids of an infected person. This includes semen, vaginal secretions, saliva, sweat, and urine. Transmission may occur through: Vaginal, oral or anal sex Kissing that involves an exchange of saliva, especially if there are small cuts inside the tongue or mouth Exposure to blood through cuts, open sores, or mucous membranes Sharing a razor, nail clippers, toothbrush, or pierced earrings of an infected person Sharing needles or syringes From an infected mother to a baby during childbirth. What are the symptoms? The most common symptoms include: Nausea Vomiting Diarrhea Lack of appetite Dark-colored urine Light-colored stools Yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes (jaundice) Low-grade fever Extreme fatigue About 50% of people infected with hepatitis B do not know they are infected and can pass the virus on to others. 10% of people infected with hepatitis B become carriers of the virus. A carrier has the virus in their body the rest of their lives and can transmit the virus to other sexual partners, but doesn't necessarily develop any further health complications. How soon after exposure to hepatitis will symptoms appear? Symptoms usually occur within 2 to 6 weeks but may occur 1 to 6 months after exposure to the virus. How is it diagnosed? Hepatitis B is diagnosed by a blood test. You can make an appointment to be tested at Health Services or you can contact another testing site in Providence. Click here to see a listing of local STI test sites. If you choose to get tested at Health Services, you can ask your medical provider about testing costs and when you can expect your results back during your appointment. How is it treated? There is no specific treatment or cure for hepatitis B, but the infection often goes away on its own. Rest and a diet high in protein and carbohydrates help the liver repair itself. Most hepatitis cases are acute, and the infection lasts from 1 to 6 months, during which time the person is continually infectious. During this period of infection, alcohol and medications metabolized by the liver must be avoided and sexual activity is not recommended in order to prevent transmission to partner(s). And although 90% to 95% of adults with hepatitis B recover completely, 5% to 10% develop chronic cases of hepatitis B. This means that the infected person continues to be highly contagious. Alpha interferon and lamivudine are two drugs licensed for the treatment of persons with chronic hepatitis B. These drugs are effective in up to 40% of patients, however, approximately 15 to 25% of chronic cases develop severe liver disease and death. Caregivers must also protect themselves from direct, ungloved contact with blood and other body fluids of infected individuals. If your sex partner or a member of your household is found to have hepatitis B, you should consult your medical provider to be vaccinated. Can it be prevented? Hepatitis B can be prevented by a vaccine. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) now recommends vaccination for all newborns in order to prevent hepatitis B infection later in life. The vaccine is also recommended for medical providers and anyone that is in close contact with infected individuals. The vaccine consists of three shots and is usually given at 0, 1, and 6 months. The vaccine is highly effective and should be strongly considered. College students are required to have Hepatitis B vaccination. Brown students can receive the vaccine series at Health Services if they have not been previously vaccinated. Can hepatitis B infections be dangerous? Hepatitis B is a serious condition that can cause lifelong infection, cirrhosis (scarring) of the liver, liver cancer, liver failure, and death. Related Links Planned Parenthood Centers for Disease Control About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook