Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home Education Education The world requires knowledgeable leaders to work with businesses, communities, governments, and civil society to address the climate crisis. Education opportunities at the Columbia Climate School will provide the interdisciplinary knowledge base for future climate leaders across diverse interests and backgrounds. Explore all climate, environment, and sustainability programs at Columbia. Degree-granting programs at the Climate School The Climate School proudly offers the Master of Arts in Climate and Society, a 12-month interdisciplinary program that trains professionals and academics to understand and cope with the impacts of climate change and climate variability on society and the environment. The Climate School will offer new and/or expanded masters and doctoral programs in the future, and is currently in the conceptual stages of designing and developing these exciting new opportunities. Affiliated Programs The Earth Institute, which is now part of Columbia University’s Climate School, offers a rich collection of sustainability and environmental education programs in partnership with schools across the university. Explore here. The Earth Institute also offers co-curricular programs designed to expose students to its innovative work while allowing them to contribute to ongoing research projects. The co-curricular programs include research assistantships, internships, and travel funding for fieldwork. Download A Guide to Educational Programs in Environment and Sustainable Development at Columbia University (PDF) for details on existing undergraduate and graduate degrees, as well as certificate programs, across the university. Courses Many departments and programs at Columbia University offer courses on climate, the environment, and sustainability. The Earth Institute provides a searchable list. Non-Degree Programs Taught by world renowned Columbia faculty, researchers and practitioners, the Climate School will offer non-degree education programs for a wide cross-section of society, including K-12 programs for teachers and students, leadership and communications training, and executive and other professional programs for businesses and governments. Non-degree programs will offer the same level of rigor and quality as our degree programs and allow the Climate School to deliver high-caliber programs on a flexible schedule to participants around the world. Explore below: Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close