Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Experience SIPA Columbia & New York City Our hometown gives you access to incomparable career opportunities alongside a flourishing cultural and commercial life. Come and experience for yourself what makes Manhattan "the island at the center of the world." You are here Home Experience SIPA The New York City Experience Video of The New York City Experience Connect with the world’s top employers SIPA draws strength from the resources of New York City. The UN and other international organizations, leading companies in finance, media, and other industries, countless nonprofits, a high-profile city government, and many others give you the chance to gain valuable experience outside of the classroom. An education that extends beyond classroom walls As a student you'll participate in a practicum designed to meet the needs of real-world clients. You'll hear from visiting heads of state, government leaders, and business executives. You can gain experience during the semester as an intern—at the United Nations, a major private company, or a small nonprofit organization. In New York City and around the world, SIPA students see the impact of public policy and apply the lessons to the next challenge. The ultimate college town Renowned for its parks, theaters, museums, restaurants, and cultural events, New York City is an incredibly exciting and dynamic place to live. Exploring the city is one of the great joys of being part of the Columbia community. Learning from luminaries SIPA counts prize-winning scholars and practitioners among its distinguished faculty members. We also regularly welcome some of the world’s leading voices to campus. Indeed, you never know who might visit for a lecture or panel discussion: Ban Ki-Moon, Emmanuel Macron, Hillary Clinton, Margarethe Vestager, Eric Schmidt, and David Miliband are just a few visitors of note in recent years. A diverse and global community In any given year, SIPA students and faculty come from nearly 100 countries, with approximately half of the student body from overseas. Varied student organizations like the Columbia SIPA Veterans Association, SIPA Pan-African Network, and Gender Policy Working Group provide opportunities for intellectual exploration, social activities, and more. Explore SIPA Stories SIPA’s faculty, staff, alumni, and students come form an international and diverse community. Explore Stories Connect with SIPA Attend an Information Session Request Information Meet a Current Student Share This SIPA Alumni: Stories of Impact - John Porter '83 Video of SIPA Alumni: Stories of Impact - John Porter &amp;#039;83 Alumni Spotlight Because developing countries can’t borrow in capital markets, the World Bank plays a key role in helping them to implement reforms. John Porter MIA 83 Principal Mercator Financial Advisors Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216