Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Gilbert & Walker Statues The University seeks an artist to collaborate with our project team to create a bronze life-sized statue(s) of Rev. Robert Gilbert and Mrs. Barbara Walker in front of the newly renovated and historic Tidwell Bible Building on the Baylor campus. Baylor University has undergone an extensive process to research its complete history with the establishment of the Commission on Historic Campus Representations. The Commission’s work was made public in March 2021, and it recommended using physical representations to better communicate the many contributions of Black students, faculty and staff throughout Baylor’s history. Explore Rev. Robert Gilbert (BA ’67) and Barbara Walker (BA ’67) The late Rev. Robert Gilbert, B.A. ’67, and Mrs. Barbara Walker, B.A. ’67, are two remarkable Baylor alumni who broke the barriers of segregation on the Baylor campus and left the University to live as leaders and servants in our world. On June 2, 1967, Gilbert and Walker became the first Black students to earn undergraduate degrees from Baylor, receiving their diplomas in alphabetical order during the same commencement ceremony. Earning degrees from Baylor opened doors to Gilbert and Walker that likely would have otherwise remained closed to them. Even more profound are the doors their courage opened to all the students of color who today call Baylor home. The presence of the new statue(s) honoring people of color on the Baylor campus will contribute to a more complete telling of the Baylor story and will honor all who have contributed to the institution’s success across the ages. The new outdoor statue also will create a highly visible, welcoming message that all members of the Baylor Family are valued in fulfillment of the University’s Christian mission. Timeline Milestone Final Date Request for Qualifications Process Announced Friday, July 2, 2021 Pre-Submission Conference Call Friday, July 16, 2021 Deadline for Questions Friday, August 6, 2021 Response to Questions Wednesday, August 11, 2021 Submissions Due Friday, August 13, 2021 Up to 3 Finalists Identified (May be lengthened to allow time for review of responses) Friday, August 27, 2021 Finalist Interviews (Finalists must produce maquette during this time) October - November Tentative Contract Award October - November Request for Qualifications The University seeks an artist to collaborate with our project team to create a bronze life-sized statue(s) of Gilbert and Walker in front of the newly renovated and historic Tidwell Bible Building on the Baylor campus. The team wants this new addition to reflect the diversity of the Baylor Family and to celebrate the achievements of Gilbert and Walker in becoming Baylor’s first Black graduates and making a lasting impact upon their communities. Qualified artists are invited to submit the form at the link below to receive the Request for Qualifications document, which contains more information about the project and details for how to be considered. Minimum criteria for consideration are that the artist must: Have successfully completed no less than three works in similar size, scale and method of fabrication within the last 10 years. Evidence a capacity to self-perform required castings or manufacture of the finished work or can identify the firms or individuals that the respondent will retain to do so. The selection committee will then identify finalists to submit maquettes and accompanying proposals, from which the winning selection will be made. Receive the Request for Qualifications General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!