Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Stop Video Stop Video Spirit and Traditions Generation after generation, NC State students have discovered traditions here that hold a place in their hearts — and bond them to the wider Wolfpack — for life. We’re a university with more than a century of history, and strong spirit to match. If you want to be part of something extraordinary, we’re ready to pass the torch. Est. 1887 NC State was established with the idea that college shouldn’t be reserved for a select few. Its founders believed the children of farmers, mechanics and other workers should have access to the benefits of higher education, too. 250,000+ Living Alumni Back then, we were known as the North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts. More than 130 years and a few name changes later, we’re still bound to our roots as a land-grant university — which means we’ve spent decades giving back to our state and opening our doors to its citizens. Today, NC State is a leading research enterprise that educates more North Carolinians than any other university. And our pride in this Wolfpack is stronger than ever. Why Is NC State Called the Wolfpack? The story behind our nickname Experiences We’re a Wolfpack through and through — bound together by a collection of events, symbols and rituals that we’ve all come to cherish. These traditions are born of NC State innovation, and they reflect our Think and Do resolve. You’re invited to be part of them. Discover experiences you can’t find anywhere but here. Only at NC State Art2Wear Enterprising students show off avant-garde garments during our annual student-run fashion show, which is the largest of its kind in the Southeast. Prepare to be dazzled Krispy Kreme Challenge An annual feat of glaze and glory dares students to dash five miles and scarf a dozen donuts in an hour to raise funds for UNC Children’s Hospital. Be a trailglazer Howling Cow A creamy, dreamy lab experiment led to one of NC State’s most popular creations: our very own ice cream, made right here on campus. Get the scoop Red and White Week NC State’s biggest celebration each year is Red and White Week, a fall homecoming extravaganza filled with events, challenges and connection. Home is howling Spaces Anyone who’s made their home at NC State knows there’s something special about our campus. It keeps our alums coming back year after year to relive the magic. Once you’re here — crisscrossing grassy quads along brick paths, cheering in grandstands flooded with red and white or finding your own hidden gem somewhere in between — you’ll look up and realize that you’re part of our story now, too. See the spaces our community has come to love. Our Hallowed Places Nine landmarks on our campus have earned a special designation from the university because of their deeper meaning to our alums, students and friends. Take a (virtual) stroll through our Hallowed Places. Explore them The Techsters More of Campus Carter-Finley Stadium Welcome to the fabled home of the NC State football team, with room for up to 60,000 howling fans in the stands. Enter our Pack’s den Memorial Belltower Originally built to pay tribute to those who fell in past conflict, the Belltower has become a symbol of inspiration to our community. Standing tall The Brickyard Officially named “University Plaza,” this spot is where members of our Wolfpack have congregated and celebrated for decades. Walk the bricks Experience physics in action when you whisper into our Wolf Ears on Main Campus. Though the two structures are situated many yards apart, messages can travel from one “ear” to the other, loud and clear. Students who are seeking a bit of good luck on their next exam rub the head of the Strolling Professor statue, which is modeled after former NC State chemistry professor William R. Johnston. Just outside the Free Expression Tunnel, a pack of bronze wolf sculptures serves as a popular meeting place for students. (Each one weighs in at approximately 1,200 pounds and stands about five feet tall.) Rising over campus, you may see a smokestack emblazoned with our university’s former name, State College, that proudly marks our home. The landmark is nearly a century old and heated buildings across campus until the 1970s. Discover NC State Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Take The Next Step Apply Ready to start your journey with us? Find out what you need to begin your application to NC State. Join the Pack Visit Want to see more of the campus you’ll call home? We offer in-depth virtual tours, or you can schedule an in-person visit. Come explore Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.