Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close The Pandemic Years In Focus The Pandemic Years Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 The Pandemic Years Living through a pandemic for more than two years has highlighted how connected we are, how resilient we can be, and how far we still have to go for an equitable world. The next chapter Experts explore global health equity, relaxing restrictions, and the evolution of the contagion. Read more from Harvard Medical School Health care heroes From pioneering vaccine research to providing life-saving care, these Harvard community members, along with countless others around the world, rose to the challenge of this pandemic. Kizzmekia Corbett She played a key role in developing the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. Now at the Harvard Chan School, she’s turning to the pathogens that may spark the next pandemic. Read about her work on a COVID vaccine and pandemic research Rochelle Walensky Rochelle Walensky, who became an expert in viral testing, prevention, and treatment through her work against AIDS, was appointed director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in December of 2020. Read more about her appointment to the CDC Dan Barouch Dan Barouch, a Harvard Medical School professor and researcher, was recognized for his work on one of three vaccines against COVID-19 approved for use in the U.S. Read about his contributions to the COVID-19 vaccine Marcella Alsan Marcella Alsan, the first serving professor at Harvard Kennedy School to win the MacArthur “genius grant,” recently investigated health inequities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Learn about her research on health inequities Anthony Fauci Throughout the pandemic, Anthony Fauci spoke at many Harvard events, helping people understand the virus, the vaccine, and more. See what he had to say at a recent Harvard Chan School event Frontline workers Fourteen nurses working at four Harvard-affiliated hospitals reflect on life and working during the COVID-19 pandemic. Meet some of the nurses on the frontlines The heroes behind the heroes When Harvard officials transitioned the University to remote learning in the spring of 2020, there were some people who needed to stay. Learn about the essential workers across our campus Addressing inequities The COVID-19 pandemic impacted communities across the globe in different ways. Disparities in healthcare, resources, and economic support became more evident as the virus progressed. Racial disparities With the spread of COVID, “racism—not race—is the risk factor,” said Aaron Bernstein, interim director of the Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment. Incarcerated persons Citing the threat of COVID-19, researchers urged policy changes to ease prison crowding. Native American community COVID-19 took a disproportionate toll on tribes’ health and economy. Young people Young adults have been hardest hit by loneliness during the pandemic. Latin Americans In Latin America, COVID-19 killed more than a million people, fueled recession, and unleashed political upheaval. COVID-19 revisited As we slowly move toward a post-pandemic world, it can be helpful to look back at the major moments to better understand the past and ensure a safer future. Explore all of the Harvard Gazette’s COVID coverage January 2020 The outbreak Professor of Epidemiology Marc Lipsitch talked about the growing number of coronavirus cases around the world. Revisit the Harvard Gazette’s first article about COVID How mRNA vaccines work November 2020 The vaccines Harvard Chan School Professor Barry Bloom offered insight on the two COVID mRNA vaccines. Revisit the initial reactions to the vaccine What’s different about the delta variant? July 2021 The delta variant William Hanage, associate professor of epidemiology, discussed the rapidly spreading variant. Revisit the early days of the delta variant November 2021 The boosters Harvard Medical School’s Jonathan Abraham shared insights on the science and history of vaccine boosters. Revisit the first impression on boosters How does a pandemic become endemic? 2022 and beyond The future A new study led by Harvard researchers models future SARS-CoV-2 mutations and forecasts their ability to evade immune defenses developed by vaccines and antibody-based treatments Read more about the future of the virus Finding the positives The Harvard Gazette asked experts in the fields of medicine, biology, public health, education, and religion for some silver linings in the coronavirus pandemic. Read the full article Michelle Williams “The pandemic has forced a reckoning. No longer can any sector function without public health integrated into its DNA.” Michelle Williams is the dean of Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Pamela Silver “Lots more people are going to know what messenger RNA is, what an antibody is, and how the immune system works.” Pamela Silver is the Elliot T. and Onie H. Adams Professor of Biochemistry and Systems Biology. Ingrid Theresa Katz “We’ve seen a lot more reciprocity across borders, recognizing that this virus itself crosses borders, and therefore we need to be responsive in a way that doesn’t hem us in …” Ingrid Theresa Katz is the associate faculty director at Harvard Global Health Institute, as well as an associate professor at Harvard Medical School. Where do we go from here? We mourn With nearly six million deaths globally—close to a million in America alone—we need to come together and acknowledge these personal losses. Read more about community gatherings for grieving and hope We come together The co-director of the Initiative on Health, Religion and Spirituality explores how rebuilding community life post-pandemic may boost health and wellbeing. Learn more about the intersection of community and wellbeing We take it slow Psychologists, psychiatrists, and counselors have long predicted that once the pandemic’s acute phase eased and its physical impacts lessened, there would be mental health fallout. Read more about pandemic trauma We teach Bridget Long, dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, talks about the lessons learned from the pandemic, and the challenges ahead. Read Bridget Long's insights We learn and improve The world is a different place from what it was two years ago, and we are still learning to live with all the sorrow and change the pandemic has brought. At the same time, COVID-19 has taught us a lot. Read more from Harvard Kennedy School experts We redesign "The COVID experience will shape the ways planners and designers think about a healthy environment," says Ann Forsyth, the Ruth and Frank Stanton Professor of Urban Planning and Director of the Master in Urban Planning Program. Read more from Harvard Graduate School of Design We come back stronger Experts discuss how social welfare can change for the better in a post-pandemic world. Read more about this opportunity to rethink and reconsider We prevent another pandemic For a fraction of the cost of managing a pandemic after it starts, we can prevent another pandemic from ever emerging. Learn more from the Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00