Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Past Programs & Initiatives Over our 30 year history, the Swearer Center has hosted a number of programs that provide pathways of community engagement for students as well as initiatives that engage with our communities. We celebrate this history, which you can read more about on our Stories page and by browsing our past programs and intitiatives below. Back to Programs All Program TypesBeyond ProvidenceSummerProvidenceWinterUndergraduatePost-GraduateFunding Available During Winter Break Providence, approximately 25 students shared in a two-week-long intensive learning program to explore and engage with social justice issues in the Providence community. Winter Break Providence Careers in the Common Good Winternships provided opportunities for student interns to work on engaging projects for two weeks during winter break within social enterprise and nonprofit organizations. Careers in the Common Good Winternships The Storytellers Fellowship provided space for students interested in storytelling to explore social justice narratives through creative mediums such as audio production and videography. Storytellers Fellowship The Social Good Mentoring Program paired Brown students interested in social good careers with alumni mentors. Social Good Mentoring Program The Community Sport Fellowship was a summer fellowship opportunity for Brown University student-athletes focused on strengthening the capacity of local community organizations to deliver sport opportunities for Providence-area youth. Community Sport Fellowship The Storytelling Abroad Program provides up to four undergraduate Brown University students with a 10-week summer internship as journalists. Storytelling Abroad Program In partnership with the Swearer Center for Public Service and the George Kaiser Family Foundation, the Brown in Tulsa program provided up to seven undergraduate Brown University students with an 8-week summer internship opportunity in Tulsa, Okla, where they explored and engaged with issues that affect the region. Brown in Tulsa Kaiser Fellowship The Fellowship provided students from Brown University and Hebrew University with a year-long program of study focused on the most difficult dilemmas of Jewish-Arab relations in the context of lived communities. Providence - Jerusalem Exchange Fellowship on Israel / Palestine Explore Grants provided seed money for Brown students to turn new, promising ideas into ventures. Explore Grants Expand Grants served the Brown community by encouraging student entrepreneurs to turn their ideas into new ventures. Expand Grants The Embark Fellowship supported graduating students seeking to pursue their social ventures as full-time endeavors post-graduation. Embark Fellowship Through Challenge Change Action, students spent a semester exploring a social challenge of their choice through a series of workshops facilitated by the Swearer Center. Challenge Change Action The Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI) at Brown University built the leadership capabilities of youth in the ASEAN region and promoted cross-border cooperation to solve regional and global challenges. YSEALI at Brown University Between 2017 and 2020, the Swearer Center was the administrative and research home of the Carnegie Community Engagement Classification among other national assessment tools for community engagement. College and University Engagement Initiative (CUEI) Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat