CUIMC Home | Columbia University | Map AN NIA-FUNDED ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE RESEARCH CENTER ADUHELM® Our center is aware of the approval, on June 7th, by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the medication aducanumab (brand name ADUHELM®) to treat Alzheimer’s disease (see FDA.gov). Aducanumab is the first drug approved in the United States, which removes Alzheimer’s disease proteins from the brain, and is designed to slow the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. We are waiting for more information on availability and eligibility for insurance coverage, including Medicare. This is an evolving situation which we are monitoring very closely, and we are working towards offering it here soon. You may schedule a visit with your doctor to discuss this drug with you. If you are a new patient, you will first need to schedule an initial evaluation and diagnostic testing to determine potential eligibility. Welcome The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain is the nucleus of a dynamic, multidisciplinary endeavor. The Institute brings together Columbia University researchers and clinicians to uncover the causes of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and other age-related brain diseases and to discover ways to prevent and cure these diseases Directors: Richard Mayeux, MD, MS, and Michael Shelanski, MD, PhD Deputy Directors: Philip De Jager, PhD, MD, MMSc and Rafael A. Lantigua, MD Contact Us 630 West 168th Street P&S Box 16 New York, NY 10032 Phone: 212 305-1818 Fax: 212 342-2849 Email: taubinstitute@columbia.edu Brain Donation Our ability to understand Alzheimer's disease is dependent upon studying brain tissue. About Brain Donation Voluntary Brain Donation Q&A For more information, please contact Scott M. Reid, MA at (212) 305-9086 or smr2212@cumc.columbia.edu Featured Research News COVID-19 Response & Reopening: A Letter from Our Directors Taub in the News Coronavirus Information Events Taub Videos Patient Care Overview Memory Disorder Centers Genetic Counseling Clinical Trials Overview Current Studies Research Cell Biology & Neuroscience Cognitive Neuroscience Genetics Geriatric Psychiatry Normal Aging Parkinson's & Lewy Body Dementia Vascular & Metabolic Diseases Investigator Resources Education Overview Case Studies Online Resources Faculty Development & Training About Us Overview Taub Faculty News Taub in the News Events En Espanol This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Contact Webmaster || Copyright © 2011