Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Academics Core Curriculum Outcomes Departments Majors & Minors Academic Calendar Registrar IT Services Faculty & Staff In-processing AWARD-WINNING PROGRAMS OF STUDY MAJORS & MINORS Let your passion meet your purpose. No matter what major you declare, you have a team on your side. Our diverse and talented faculty members are leaders in their field and barrier breakers in their own right—whether in the laboratory, academia, or in air and space. Our small class sizes and open-door policy fosters a culture of collaboration between faculty and cadets. You will be supported, inspired, and challenged as you take your lessons from the classroom and into the future. Majors Aeronautical Engineering Economics Meteorology Astronautical Engineering Electrical Engineering Military & Strategic Studies Behavioral Sciences English & Fine Arts Operations Research Biology Foreign Area Studies Philosophy Chemistry Geospatial Science Physics Civil Engineering History Political Science Computer Engineering Legal Studies Systems Engineering Computer Science Management Cyber Science Mathematics Data Science Mechanical Engineering Divisional Majors The divisional major program is recommended for cadets already declared in a disciplinary major within the respective division who, for a variety of reasons, find the divisional approach more suited to fulfilling graduation requirements. Since the divisional majors lack the structure of a disciplinary major, they are generally not appropriate paths for cadets who may be interested in graduate school as additional undergraduate coursework in the selected discipline will likely be required prior to entering graduate school. Entry into a divisional major is generally done at the direction of a disciplinary advisor and must be approved by the Division Chair or the Divisional Major Advisor-In-Charge (AIC). The AIC will advise cadets on the specific requirements of the major appropriate to their individual circumstances. Basic Sciences General Engineering Humanities Social Sciences Minors American Studies German Religion Studies Arabic Japanese Russian Chinese Nuclear Weapons & Strategy Space Warfighting Diversity & Inclusion Philosophy Spanish French Portuguese Majors’ Night, Declaring, and Multiple Majors & Minors Each semester, the Academy hosts Majors’ Night to help cadets explore their options by speaking with department representatives and consulting with academic advisors or AAOCAs. See the Academic Calendar for upcoming Major’s Nights. Cadets can declare a major from day one, but it’s recommended that you wait until later in your fourth-class (freshman) year to allow for course adjustments during your first semesters. To declare a major, meet with your Associate Air Officers Commanding for Academics (AAOCAs). Cadets must declare a major by October of their third semester. In addition to their primary program of study, cadets can earn a minor or multiple majors. Contact your academic advisor for details. Download the Course of Instruction Handbook to learn about prerequisites and what semester they must be fulfilled so you can stay-on-track for successful program completion. Our academic departments are enhanced by the following programs: Academic Success Center: A rigorous academic program requires rigorous support. Get help with time management, reading and writing strategies, and extra support with STEM courses through the Quantitative Reasoning Center. Service Academy Exchange Program: An exceptional semester-long opportunity to grow your network, see new places, and experience the other service academies. International Education Programs: One of the most comprehensive international education programs in the country. Summer language immersion, semester abroad, and fully funded cultural immersion programs will broaden your life experiences, cross-cultural skills, and language capabilities. Research Centers: The Office of Research is a designated Air Force Laboratory and Office of Research Technology and Applications. What does this mean for cadets and faculty? It means we are at the center of collaborative innovation between government, academia, and industry. Shared expertise, equipment, and testing facilities raise our research capabilities to a whole new level. Graduate Studies: You can pursue academic excellence beyond the Academy. Cadets here have earned the prestigious Rhodes, Marshall, Fulbright and other scholarships to advance their educations in all fields of study. Our Graduate Studies Office oversees opportunities to give cadets advanced degrees immediately after commissioning. Our Academy Scholars Program develops a select number of academically gifted students for challenging opportunities in leadership and academia. Learn about grading and accreditation Want to Attend the Academy? Understanding our admissions process is the first step. The Application Process ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.