Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Priority Awards » Schwarzman Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Schwarzman Scholarship Designed to prepare the next generation of global leaders, Schwarzman Scholars is the first scholarship created to respond to the geopolitical landscape of the 21st Century. Whether in politics, business or science, the success of future leaders around the world will depend upon an understanding of China’s role in global trends. Each new cohort of Schwarzman Scholars will join a global network of the world’s most talented young leaders, helping to build stronger links between China and a rapidly changing world. Scholars will complete a one-year Master’s degree in Global Affairs at Tsinghua University in Beijing – one of China’s most prestigious universities. Students will pursue a concentration in one of the following disciplines: public policy, economics and business, or international studies. The concentration gives students an opportunity to focus on aspects of global affairs they may not have previously studied. This award does not require university endorsement. However, the Schwarzman Scholarship is exceptionally competitive. We strongly recommend that you work closely with NCA as you prepare your application. Having trouble writing an essay on your leadership skills? Prestigious scholarships often ask for a leadership essay, but what does such an essay entail? NCA has recorded a webinar full of tips to help you craft a compelling leadership narrative for your application. Please watch our 30-minute Leadership Essay Webinar (be sure to view as a Slide Show for audio narration). Closed captions are available. Deadlines National Deadline: September 20, 2022 (May 2022 for applicants with Chinese passports) Award Details right arrow down arrow Students selected to the Schwarzman Scholars program receive a comprehensive scholarship, which includes tuition fees, room and board, travel to and from Beijing at the beginning and end of the academic year, an in-country study tour, course books and supplies, health insurance, and a stipend of $4,000 to cover personal expenses. In addition to the core curriculum, scholars benefit from leadership development, a mentorship network, the “deep dive” experience, an optional internship, and Mandarin study in the fall term. (Courses are taught in English. Prior knowledge of Mandarin is not required.) Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria To apply, you must be: a rising senior or recent alumni (must have a bachelor’s degree by program start date) at least 18 but not yet 29 years of age as of August 1 of their Schwarzman Scholars enrollment year proficient in English (see Schwarzman website for information about testing requirements) Please refer to the Schwarzman website for a detailed list of the eligibility requirements. Selection Criteria To be competitive, candidates should: demonstrate academic excellence. Though there is no minimum GPA, “the most competitive candidates are among the top students in their graduating class.” have a proven record of effective leadership and an entrepreneurial spirit Please refer to the Schwarzman website for a detailed list of the selection criteria. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information Resume/CV (2 pages, maximum) Essay 1: Leadership Essay 2: Statement of Purpose Letters of recommendation (3) Transcripts Optional video How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the spring, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Schwarzman Scholarship Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Carefully review the Schwarzman website and schedule an NCA advising appointment Launch your online application (application opens in April) Submit revised application by National Deadline: September 20, 2022 Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Schwarzman website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Schwarzman website takes precedence. UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies to this application process. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Daniel Posmik (Business Economics; Business Analytics) - Finalist, 2022 Marcus McDowell (Interdisciplinary Studies) - Finalist, 2021 Ishan Anand (Biomedical Engineering) - Scholar, 2018 Rachel C. Walker (Composition) - Scholar, 2017 Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top