Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Pan African Studies (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT The global market has made us a global society. Understanding all parts of the world, including an in-depth knowledge of different cultures, religions and backgrounds — not just the statistics — gives students an advantage in the working world. Students in the Pan African studies program are learning that if they can engage with all people, they will be a lot more successful in life. You'll be taught to ask critical questions about the social, economic, political and familial contributions Africans have made to Western society and to identify connections among Africans in diverse cultures. Pan African Studies also works well as a double major, complementing a primary area of study in politics, business, education, the sciences or the humanities. One of the unique aspects of a degree in Pan African Studies is the cultural impact your education will have on your professional perspective. Developing cultural awareness and sensitivity is of the utmost importance when dealing with racial inequities and societal injustices. Pan African Studies properly prepares students to appreciate the differences in people, which in turn improves professionalism upon graduation. Our students are prepared to enter a variety of fields — including law, education, corporate training, business, politics and nonprofit leadership — or pursue further postgraduate education. FAST FACTS Pan African Studies is a fairly new degree program offered at Clemson, although it has been a minor for many years. Pan African Studies is adaptive and allows our students to creatively build their major to fit individual interests as they relate to a global Black culture. This major prepares students to think and work globally while heightening cultural sensitivity and awareness. Our affiliated faculty come from many colleges across the University and pride themselves on the quality of their teaching and research in diverse fields ranging from English literature and history to religious studies and political science. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY As a Clemson Pan African Studies major, you will have the opportunity to specifically design your study to fit your personal academic interests in conversation with your academic adviser. To receive a thorough grounding in liberal arts and sciences, you will choose classes in literature, theater, music and foreign language, as well as social and natural sciences. In these classes, you will spend your time exploring topics such as religion, culture, history and education. This interdisciplinary curriculum, combining coursework associated with the African diaspora, is supplemented by various practical work experiences and opportunities. Writing will be central to your studies, and in your senior year, you will take a capstone course in which you produce a major research project. Potential regional areas of study include: North America. Africa. Latin America. Curriculum Pan African Studies, B.A. Popular Minors Business Communication English History Legal Studies Women's Leadership Psychology Sociology Similar Majors History (B.A.) Political Science (B.S./B.A.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Pan African Studies (B.A.) History (B.A.) Political Science (B.S./B.A.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.)