Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Technology the sandbox. Check Out Tech Creatorspace & Studios Orientations & Workshops Lambuth Technology Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries Technology Laptop Guidelines COVID Relief Technology Access Through collaborative efforts with Student Academic Success, the Dean of Students office, UofM Libraries, and ITS, we are able to offer technology for students to check out to assist with virtual classes. Check McWherter Library hours before visiting. Questions? Call the McWherter Library Checkout Desk at 901.678.2205 or email library_circulation@memphis.edu. Semester-Loan Laptops Laptops with webcams are available to check out for a period of one semester. Below are the policies and procedures for semester-loan laptops as of May 1, 2022. During the summer, semester-loan laptops will ONLY be available to check out May 23 – August 4, 2022 (Full Summer Term and one week before term) and must be returned on or before Friday, August 12, 2022. During the fall, semester-loan laptops will ONLY be available to check out August 15 – November 30, 2022 (Full Fall Term and one week before term) and must be returned on or before Friday, December 16, 2022. To check out a semester-loan laptop, you must: Be an undergraduate student. Submit an online request form. Be enrolled in summer courses to check out a semester-loan laptop during the summer. Once you submit a request form: We will receive your request and you will be notified if a laptop is available within two (2) business days. If a laptop is available, bring your UofM ID to the Checkout Desk (McWherter Library, 1st floor) to pick up your laptop. You will be required to sign a waiver, which you can view beforehand here: Loaner Laptop Policy and Liability Statement (PDF). If you do not return your laptop by the due date, a late fee of $10 per day will be added to your account (after a 5-day grace period). Submit a Semester-Loan Laptop Request Form Here Additional Technology Laptops are also available to check out for 4-hour periods. View additional policies and guidelines. Check for available laptops. Calculators, charger cords, headphones, art tablets, audio recorders, cameras, microphones, projectors and more are also available to check out. Learn more here. Students with other needs and concerns should contact the Dean of Students Office. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.