Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Jac Kern | Archives Jac is the associate director of the Media Relations + Content division within the Marketing + Communications department. She is also editor of UC News. A UC alumna, Jac is proud to share the university's stories. kernjc@ucmail.uc.edu | 5135561823 239 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Working at the University of Cincinnati April 8, 2022 The University of Cincinnati is a premier, public urban research university with an enrollment of more than 46,000 students and over 10,500 faculty and staff across four distinct campuses. Our faculty are intentionally recognized for innovative teaching and research, especially in the practical applications of their discoveries. Living in Cincinnati: What we love about life in the Queen City The city of Cincinnati is not like other midwestern cities. Our urban identity is at the core of who we are and why we matter. Our city is home and so much more – it’s our source for professional opportunities, artistic inspiration, and social energy. U.S. News & World Report grad school rankings spotlight UC... March 29, 2022 The 2023 edition of the U.S. News & World Report “Best Graduate School” rankings released March 29 shows several programs at the University of Cincinnati moved up significantly. 4 benefits of hiring a co-op student While cooperative education has a range of proven benefits for college students, hiring a co-op student also provides advantages for employers and businesses. What should I major in? Struggling with picking the right college major for you? From business to classical civilization, the University of Cincinnati offers more than 300 majors and programs. Here's Here's everything you need to know about college majors and how to choose a major that's perfect for you. 3 ways to prepare for college while you’re still in high school Three ways to make sure you’re prepared for college as you begin your journey in high school. From developing good study habits to researching what an ideal college setting looks like for you, here are three ways to make sure you’re prepared for success in college after high school. Spectrum News: Cincinnati high school student surprised with... February 10, 2022 Ten high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) were the first to be honored with the new Marian Spencer Scholarship awards by the University of Cincinnati. Spectrum News covers one of the surprises. Inaugural class of Marian Spencer Scholars announced February 8, 2022 The University of Cincinnati has awarded 10 high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools the new Marian Spencer Scholarship. Yahoo: Future University of Cincinnati Bearcats get surprised at... January 28, 2022 News media highlight UC's Decision Day records as students get surprised with admission and scholarships. Everything you need to know about UC housing January 27, 2022 UC Director of Housing Carl Dieso shares the housing process — apply, select your room and move in — and benefits of living on campus. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Grace Hertlein January 26, 2022 Grace Hertlein is one of 10 alumni and students featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. UC surprises future Bearcats on Decision Day January 24, 2022 Decision Day marks the moment when thousands of incoming Bearcats learn they’ve been accepted to the University of Cincinnati. University officials surprised four area high school seniors at their schools and homes, making them among the first to be accepted into UC in 2022. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Miles Spearman January 21, 2022 Miles Spearman is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. UC takes center stage in Amazon Prime series January 19, 2022 Filmed in July 2021, UC’s episode is a crash-course in being a Bearcat, starring a few of the university’s best and brightest students and alumni. Some are lifelong Cincinnatians; others are from across the globe. But they’re all excited to show viewers why they've called UC home: From its beautiful spaces and state-of-the-art facilities to co-op and campus life. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: April Gable January 17, 2022 April Gable is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top