Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioinformatics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioinformatics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Bioinformatics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Bioinformatics Graduate Certificate Understand how to analyze complex biological data with the Graduate Certificate in Bioinformatics in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. This 12-credit-hour, interdisciplinary certificate is tailored to give students a solid grounding in the growing field of bioinformatics, which uses computer programming to interpret biological data in medical research. Graduates with a bioinformatics background are in high demand due to their knowledge of computational and statistical methods for researching problems in biology and medicine. Investigate the latest discoveries in biochemistry, biophysics and genomics. You’ll also study the computational and experimental methods used in protein structure determination and molecular modeling, gene inheritance and gene expression, genome mapping and sequencing, and the statistical methods for data analysis. Who might be interested? The Bioinformatics Graduate Certificate is ideal for students seeking advanced coursework for professional development in the bioinformatics, computational biology, molecular biology and genomics fields, as well as in the biotechnology, healthcare or pharmaceutical industries. Credit Requirements To earn the Bioinformatics Graduate Certificate, you must complete 12 credit hours of coursework. Delivery Method All courses are conducted in the classroom on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia, in close proximity to its state-of-the-art labs and research centers. This is a part-time certificate program only, and coursework is typically completed over two semesters. You have up to two years to complete the certificate. Classes & Curriculum The Bioinformatics Graduate Certificate coursework is designed to provide professional development opportunities for students in a variety of careers in the biological sciences. Some of the core courses include Genomics, Scripting for Sciences and Business, and Structural Bioinformatics I and II. Learn more about required courses for the Bioinformatics Graduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biology MA Biology MS Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Related Graduate Certificates Information Science and Technology Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Jody Hey, program director for the Bioinformatics PSM in the Department of Biology, is the faculty advisor for the Bioinformatics Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: hey@temple.edu Program Contact Seema Freer, associate professor in the Department of Biology, is the program contact for the Bioinformatics Graduate Certificate. Phone: 215 204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BINF-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioinformatics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info