Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES PSYCHOLOGY CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PSYCLN 501 Issues in Clinical Psychology (1, max. 3) Personal and professional issues in clinical psychology. Required for all first-year graduate students majoring in clinical and child-clinical psychology. Prerequisite: graduate major standing in clinical psychology. Instructors: Smith Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 501 PSYCLN 502 Child Clinical Psychology (4) Issues and content of child clinical psychology, promotion of student's beginning work in research. Prerequisite: graduate major or minor standing in child-clinical psychology. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 502 PSYCLN 510 Research Methods in Clinical and Community Psychology (4) Lengua Addresses issues concerning the design and implementation of research in clinical and community psychology. Topics include validity; reliability; experimental, quasi-, and non-experimental designs; causal inference; interpretation of data; and research ethics. Provides students with tools to evaluate research, develop hypotheses, and design rigorous empirical studies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 510 PSYCLN 511 Single Subject Design and Research (3) Single subject designs (reversal, multiple baseline, changing criterion) and their application to clinical cases. Prerequisite: graduate major standing in clinical psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Kohlenberg Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 511 PSYCLN 513 Research Strategies in Clinical Psychology (1-2, max. 50) Group discussions of problems and continuing strategies for ongoing and future research projects. Prerequisite: Graduate standing in Psychology, or by permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 513 PSYCLN 520 Psychological Assessment (3) Provides a foundation in the theory underlying adult assessment as well as training in specific adult assessment techniques. Focuses on behavioral and cognitive assessment. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 520 PSYCLN 521 Assessment of Intelligence (5) Current theory and research on intelligence and intelligence testing; training in administration, scoring, and interpretation of major intelligence tests; ethical issues in assessment. Prerequisite: graduate major standing in child-clinical or clinical psychology, or graduate minor standing in child-clinical psychology. Instructors: King, Lengua Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 521 PSYCLN 522 Psychological Assessment of Children (5) Assessment techniques appropriate to children, including those for infants, special problems of preschool and school-age children; projective tests, family interviews, and target observational assessment; training in administration of selected techniques. Prerequisite: PSYCLN 521 and permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 522 PSYCLN 523 Approaches to Psychological Assessment (4) Problem-solving approach to psychological assessment; review of psychological tests and procedures and presentation of approaches to their clinical interpretation and use. Prerequisite: graduate major standing in clinical psychology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 523 PSYCLN 524 Clinical Personality Assessment (3) Use of objective personality inventories in the description of normal and abnormal personality and use of such information in case conceptualization and treatment planning. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory. Prerequisite: clinical psychology graduate standing. Instructors: Smith Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 524 PSYCLN 525 Practicum in Psychological Assessment (2) Demonstration and practice of selected psychological test procedures and interviewing skills. Concurrent registration in PSYCH 576 or PSYCH 578 required. Required for all first-year graduate students majoring in clinical and child-clinical psychology. Prerequisite: graduate major standing in clinical or child-clinical psychology and permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 525 PSYCLN 530 Behavior Disorders (5) Major types of behavior disorders, with emphasis on clinical manifestations, relevant research, and theoretical perspectives. Required for all graduate students majoring in clinical psychology. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Zoellner Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 530 PSYCLN 531 Developmental Psychopathology (4) Broad survey of major categories of child and adolescent disorders. Emphasis on scientific, empirical approach to description, classification, and research literature on these disorders. Required for all graduate students majoring in child clinical psychology. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 531 PSYCLN 532 Anxiety Disorders (3) Lori A Zoellner, Angela Fang, Shannon Dorsey General topics related to primary anxiety disorders (panic, OCD, GAD, posttraumatic stress disorder, and specific phobias), including diagnosis, theory, and treatment. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 532 PSYCLN 540 History and Systems of Psychotherapy (5) William H George Covers general psychology history and systems. As background to subsequent clinical practicum experiences in the doctoral training program, overviews four major theoretical approaches for conducting psychotherapy, including psychodynamic, behavioral, cognitive, family systems. Also, covers eclecticism, evidence-based practice, multicultural competency, and clinical psychology's successes and failures at advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion. Prerequisite: graduate student standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 540 PSYCLN 541 Approaches to Child Treatment (4) Major approaches to child psychotherapy, including specific applications, issues in treatment, and research. Prerequisite: graduate major standing in child-clinical psychology, or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 541 PSYCLN 542 Behavior Change (5) Behavioral theory and behavioral approaches to treatment. Prerequisite: PSYCH 518 and permission of instructor. Instructors: Kohlenberg Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 542 PSYCLN 543 Evidence-based Treatments for Depression (3) C. Fagan Provides an introductory overview of two or more evidence-based treatments for depression (e.g., cognitive-behavioral therapy, behavioral activation, and/or Mindfulness-based Cognitive Therapy). Prerequisite: Graduate standing in Psychology, or by permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 543 PSYCLN 544 Behavioral Methods: Clinical Interventions (3) M. Linehan Provides students with basic skills required for competent practice of cognitive and behavioral therapies. Topics include behavioral skills training, cognitive restructuring, contingency management, and exposure-based procedures. Prerequisite: minimum second year graduate clinical psychology student. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 544 PSYCLN 545 Introduction to Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (3) Linehan Introduces dialectical behavioral therapy, an empirically supported treatment approach for high risk clinical populations. Topics include mindfulness, dialectics, validation, behavioral therapy, and case conceptualization. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 545 PSYCLN 546 Dialectical Behavior Therapy Skills Group Training (3) Linehan In-depth learning of skills training component of dialectical behavior therapy, an empirically supported treatment approach for high risk clinical populations. Topics include skills in mindfulness, emotion regulation, interpersonal effectiveness and distress tolerance. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 546 PSYCLN 547 Methods in Suicide and Crisis Intervention (3) Linehan Provides a foundation for risk assessment and crisis intervention with suicidal individuals. Addresses risk factors for suicide across the age range, and methods for both behavioral interventions and crisis management with suicidal individuals. Also covers ethical issues. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 547 PSYCLN 560 Anti-Racism in Clinical Psychological Science (3) Angela Fang Surveys topics on mental health and treatment of racial and ethnic minorities. Theory emphases include: models addressing ethnic identity, cross-cultural differences, models of culturally sensitive intervention. Practice emphases include unique psychotherapy strategies for: African-, Asian-, and Latino-Americans, and American Indians. Prerequisite: graduate clinical major standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 560 PSYCLN 561 Community Psychology (4) Overview of key issues and concepts in the field of community psychology. History of field and overview of different models used to conceptualize system-level mental health issues and delivery systems. Emphasizes theory and research rather than intervention. Prerequisite: psychology graduate student, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 561 PSYCLN 562 Cross-Cultural Competency I (2) Focuses on development of multicultural competence in the provision of psychological services to meet APA guidelines for ethnic, linguistic, and culturally diverse populations. Students address personal development, increase their knowledge of diverse groups, and study effective models of intervention in working with clients of diverse backgrounds. Prerequisite: PSYCH 580. Instructors: George View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 562 PSYCLN 563 Cross-Cultural Competency II (2) Third in the graduate multicultural-competence sequence. Focuses on American ethnic minorities, multiracial children and families, social action, and organizational development. Prerequisite: PSYCH 581. Instructors: George View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 563 PSYCLN 570 Advances in Clinical Psychology (3-5, max. 30) Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in clinical psychology. Student presentations and discussion. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: George, Kohlenberg, Linehan, Smith, Zoellner View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 570 PSYCLN 571 Advances in Child Clinical Psychology (3-5, max. 30) Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in child clinical psychology. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: King, Lengua View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 571 PSYCLN 572 Seminar in Clinical Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission instructor. Instructors: George, Kohlenberg, Linehan, Simoni, Smith, Zoellner View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 572 PSYCLN 573 Seminar in Child Clinical Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology, or permission of instructor. Instructors: King, Lengua View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 573 PSYCLN 574 Independent Study in Affective Science (5) Designed to provide a broad overview of the field of affective science. The goal is to increase knowledge base and to facilitate the integration of concepts, methods, and scientific findings in affective science into scientific and clinical activities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 574 PSYCLN 575 Independent Study in Behavioral Neurosciences (5) Provide students with a broad overview of the field of behavioral neurosciences. Satisfies the requirement of the APA for graduate level training in biological aspects of behavior. Increases knowledge base and facilitates the integration of concepts, methods and scientific findings in behavioral neurosciences into scientific and clinical activities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 575 PSYCLN 576 Independent Study in Cognitive Science (5) Provides students with a broad overview of the field of cognitive science. Designed to increase student knowledge base and to facilitate the integration of concepts, methods, and scientific findings in cognitive science into their scientific and clinical activities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 576 PSYCLN 577 Independent Study in Lifespan Development (5) Designed to provide students with a broad overview of developmental aspects of behavior, with a focus on lifespan development. The goal is to increase student knowledge base and to facilitate the integration of concepts, methods, and scientific findings in lifespan development into their scientific and clinical activities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 577 PSYCLN 580 Clinical Practica and Colloquium (1-3) C. Fagan Required of all clinical psychology graduate students seeing clients in the clinic. Clinical colloquium required of all second-year students, optional for others. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 580 PSYCLN 581 Clinical Methods: Interviewing (2) Fagan Provides the foundation for developing good clinical skills. Enables students to conduct an initial clinical interview and generate a diagnostic formulation, problem list, and treatment plan after taking a complete history. Limited to and required of all second-year clinical psychology graduate students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 581 PSYCLN 582 Clinical Methods: Ethics (3) Fagan Enables students to acquire a thorough working knowledge of the American Psychological Association's Ethical Standards for Psychologists; an awareness of Washington state law as it affects psychologists and a knowledge of how to identify and solve ethical dilemmas. Limited to and required of all second-year clinical psychology graduate students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 582 PSYCLN 583 Clinical Supervision (4, max. 100) Supervised psychotherapy involving several individual clients. Separate consultations with instructor for intensive supervision of each case. Occasional meetings in small groups of instructors and students to discuss case material. Assigned readings appropriate to each case with opportunities to discuss these with instructor. Prerequisite: clinical psychology graduate standing and permission of instructor. Instructors: George, King, Kohlenberg, Lengua, Linehan, Simoni, Smith, Zoellner Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 583 PSYCLN 585 Fieldwork in Clinical Psychology (1-5, max. 36) Prerequisite: second-year graduate major standing and permission of departmental faculty. Instructors: George, King, Kohlenberg, Lengua, Linehan, Simoni, Smith, Zoellner View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 585 PSYCLN 586 Dialectical Behavior Therapy Practicum (1-5, max. 60) This practicum class is a weekly DBT therapist consultation team meeting. Students are required to deliver individual and group DBT to high risk clients and to discuss cases and receive and provide feedback during team meetings. This class is one component of a larger 2-year practicum in which students are required to complete DBT Intensive Training and take a series of six graduate seminars to learn about DBT and its behavioral foundations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 586 PSYCLN 588 Anxiety, Obsessive Compulsive, and Traumatic-stress Related Disorders Practicum (1-3, max. 30) Michele A Bedard-Gilligan, Angela Fang, Lori A Zoellner, Shannon Dorsey Practicum offers supervised experience for advanced clinical psychology graduate students in standardized assessment and empirically-supported treatment for anxiety and traumatic stressor-related disorders. Recommended: PSYCLN 532. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 588 PSYCLN 589 LEARN Clinic Practicum (1-3, max. 20) J. Quamma Provides students training and practical experience in the evaluation of learning disabilities and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children, adolescents, and adults. Prerequisite: 3rd year clinical psychology graduate students and above who have completed graduate-level courses in assessment (including assessment of intelligence) and/or have significant experience in administration of cognitive tests (e.g., tests of intelligence such as the WISC or WAIS). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 589 PSYCLN 590 Parent-Child Practicum (1-3, max. 30) Students deliver Behavioral Parent Training and other evidence based treatments. Includes didactics, live observation of instructor, group and individual supervision. Students use a sliding scale fee structure to increase socioeconomic diversity among clients served, and receive supervision on how to individualize treatment for each client, given his/her clinical presentation. Prerequisite: 3rd year clinical psychology graduate students and above who have completed graduate-level courses Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 590 PSYCLN 591 Consultation and Supervision (2) C. Fagan Introduces students to the competencies essential to providing consultation and supervision. Prepares students to take on roles of both consultants and supervisors-in-training as a step toward developing the necessary competence to eventually consult or supervise effectively as licensed psychologists. Prerequisite: 3rd year clinical grad and above students who have completed the Clinical Methods sequence. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 591 PSYCLN 596 Advanced Clinical Practicum (1-6, max. 55) Advanced supervised training in specific empirically supported treatment approaches. Each practicum provides intensive training in a specific treatment, such as dialectical behavior therapy, functional analytic psychotherapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, mindfulness-based relapse prevention, and exposure treatment for anxiety disorders. Prerequisite: graduate standing in clinical psychology; PSYCH 593; permission of instructor. Instructors: Kohlenberg, Linehan, Smith, Zoellner Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCLN 596 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022