Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH About Summer School Housing Summer School Housing Spending your summer on the Hilltop? Residence Life and Student Housing (RLSH) offers housing for students enrolled at SMU during summer terms. Housing applications are available on the SMU Housing Portal for current residents. Not currently living on campus? Contact us for access to the SMU Housing Portal for summer Summer School Housing Residents must be enrolled in SMU classes in order to live in summer school housing. Summer school will be housed in Morrison-McGinnis with a mix of double and single occupancy rooms. Singles are assigned in application date order. May Term Housing Available only for residents from Spring semester who enroll in May Term. Not living on-campus? Availability is very limited. Contact us for information. Other Summer Housing Our summer housing is limited to students enrolling at SMU, and we unfortunately are unable to offer housing to students interning or working in Dallas. You may want to explore your options with corporate housing companies, or with the University of Texas-Dallas intern housing program. Contact us SMU Housing Portal Summer School Location Summer housing is in Morrison-McGinnis. Residents must be enrolled in SMU classes in order to live in summer school housing. Summer housing is primarily double occupancy room with only a few single occupancy rooms. Single occupancy rooms will be assigned in application date order (first come, first served). Rent The double rate for one 5-week session is $850. Double rate for both sessions is $1,700. If available, single rooms are $1,000 for 5 weeks and $2,000 for 10 weeks. Summer Meal Plans Meal plans are required of all students. Students must select a plan with SMU Dining. Students enrolled for both session may select either Full Summer Flex ($1,460) OR Full Summer Block 100 ($1,260). Students enrolled for one session only will have Single Term Block 50 Plan ($825). Summer School Dates Summer I opens on Friday, May 28 (Move in by appointment time) and closes on Thursday, July 1 at 10 AM Summer II opens on Friday, July 2 (Move in by appointment time) and closes on Thursday, August 5 at 10 AM Summer "Mini Term" Applying for "Mini Terms"? Please contact RLSH regarding availability. Due to the short nature of Mini Terms, priority for housing is given to students enrolled for a full 5 Week or 10 Week. Enrollment Requirement Students must be enrolled in summer courses at SMU while residing in summer school housing. Deadline to Apply Deadline for Summer I and Full Summer applications: Monday, May 24 Deadline for Summer II application: Monday, June 28 May Term Residents who are not attending May Term must check out no later than 1 PM on the day when the residential communities close for Spring. Housing & Dining May Term housing is $365 for double-occupancy and $430 single-occupancy (single availability is limited). A $195 "all flex" plan is required for all May Term residents. Charges will be placed on your SMU student account. Assignments Residents will be notified when the May Term assignment is ready along with instructions on how to pick up the room key. Notification will include whether you are in a single or double room. Due to the short term nature of May Term housing, we are unable to accept roommate requests. Roommate information is not available in advance of May Term. Move In for May Term All residents will move to Morrison-McGinnis for May Term. Residents applying for May Term need to plan to move between May 13-15 You will need to check out of your Spring assignment no later than 1 PM on Sunday, May 15. Move Out for May Term Check out of May Term housing lasts from 10 AM on Saturday, May 29 to 10 AM on Wednesday, June 1. Students who also wish to continue for summer school must complete a summer application on the housing portal prior to May 24. Deadline to Apply Deadline to apply for May Term housing is May 1. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share