Skip to content iastate.edu Index Directory Maps Safety Sign ons Toggle Navigation HOME ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs PhD Program Faculty Research UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Majors, Minors and Certificates Transfer Students Scholarships Undergraduate Student Services Undergraduate Career Services International Programs Writing & Speaking Center Student Organizations Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something GRADUATE STUDENTS Masters Programs MBA Programs PhD Program Graduate Student Services Graduate Career Services Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something ABOUT Ivy College of Business College Leadership Faculty & Staff Directory Rankings Alumni & Friends Upcoming Events Feature Stories APPLY SEARCH Loading... Marketing It’s all about relationships. Marketingfritzn2022-05-13T11:41:22-05:00 Project Description CONNECT × We offer several ways to connect: We’re here to help answer all of your questions. We offer several ways to connect: Send us an email: choosebusiness@iastate.edu Call at 515-294-8300 any time between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday Schedule a video chat with a member of our recruitment staff. We can do this on your favorite platform. Just let us know which one you prefer: Google Hangouts, Zoom, Skype, FaceTime, or suggest another! Close VISIT SCHOLARSHIPS APPLY Marketing If you want to know why one brand is more successful than another, how to effectively sell your ideas or products, learn how to get a return on your investment, drive the strategic growth of your organization — then marketing is the career for you. In marketing, you can inspire brands and grow customer relationships. Marketing affects every aspect of a company. As an Ivy marketing major, you’ll get real-world experience and have multiple opportunities to work with business professionals. You’ll become skilled at learning how to manage the entire marketing process and make decisions based on analytics. Our 2021 Graduates $0 average marketing starting salary $0 average marketing internship wage Make an Impact Ivy professors will teach you how to increase demand for a product, how to increase recognition, and how to keep it relevant. With years of industry experience, they bring real-world examples into your courses. What you learn in the classroom will help you shine outside it, help you with internship opportunities, and prepare you for a bright future, no matter which area of marking you specialize in. You’ll put theory into practice through case studies, computer simulations, and fieldwork with real companies, owners, and managers. Working with your team, you’ll resolve challenges and seize opportunities. You’ll develop your marketing skills while learning how to manage the entire marketing process – from research and market segmentation to product design, pricing, promotion, personal selling, and distribution. Marketing decisions are made in every area of a company and can include aspects such as product design, pricing, promotion, personal selling, and facilities location. A marketing degree will prepare you for careers in product management, public relations, advertising and sales promotion, marketing research, and sales. Real-World Experience Students get hands-on experience in the Houston Professional Sales Suite in the new Gerdin Business Building expansion. Imagine yourself walking into a state-of-the-art learning space, dressed in your professional best. You greet the person at the front desk, just like an actual client meeting. You meet with an industry representative and make your sales pitch. This is the perfect practice for any sales call. You’ll be recorded so your experience can be reviewed and improved later. The new sales suite has a computer room where judges can observe and score sales pitch competitions, if you choose to participate. No need to feel intimated. You have peer and faculty support all the way! The Ivy sales program prepares you with hands-on experience that sets you up for success as soon as you graduate. Marketing is open to all university students You can double major in marketing and another major You can minor in marketing if you are an Ivy College of Business student Current student? Look here for prior catalog year requirements × Marketing – prior catalog year requirements: 2021 Catalog 2020 Catalog 2019 Catalog 2018 Catalog 2017 Catalog 2016 Catalog Close Click here to see the marketing major requirements and classes (For students entering ISU fall 2022) Click here to see a sample 4-year plan 2022 Want to know more about Iowa State and the Ivy College of Business classes? General Education Requirements 2022 Curriculum Guide 2022 Grant Frieh, Naperville, IL “As a senior at Iowa State University and the student photographer for the Ivy College of Business, I have been able to gain useful portrait and event photography experience that will benefit my job search after graduation. With a degree in marketing, I hope to use the experience I gain from this position to give myself an edge over other candidates in the creative marketing field. I have had a great time working with the Ivy marketing team and look forward to continuing to gain photography experience the remainder of the school year.” CONNECT × We offer several ways to connect: We’re here to help answer all of your questions. We offer several ways to connect: Send us an email: choosebusiness@iastate.edu Call at 515-294-8300 any time between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday Schedule a video chat with a member of our recruitment staff. We can do this on your favorite platform. Just let us know which one you prefer: Google Hangouts, Zoom, Skype, FaceTime, or suggest another! Close VISIT SCHOLARSHIPS APPLY Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Copyright © 2022 | Iowa State University – Ivy College of Business | All rights reserved | Non-discrimination Policy | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility Policy | Remote Support | Iowa State Sign ons | Iowa State A-Z Index | Media Credits × Page load link Go to Top