Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Degree Programs HomeJDJD/MBAJD/MA in Pol. ScienceJD/MPHMPH Fast-TrackPart-time Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs HomeAdvocacyBusiness LawHealth LawTax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning HomeLegal ClinicsExternship Program Law Review Law Review HomeEditorial BoardEditor-in-ChiefJoining Law ReviewVirtual Tour of Law Review SuiteSymposiumSubscriptionsArchivesCurrent VolumeConnect with Us Advocacy Program Moot Court BoardJoining Moot Court BoardIn-School CompetitionsTravel Team CompetitionsPast Champions Inst. for Health Law & Policy Legal Methods Program Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Programs Legal Methods Program LEGAL METHODS PROGRAM The Legal Methods program is the first-year legal research and writing program at Memphis Law. Legal Methods is a rigorous, required first-year legal research, writing, and analysis program. Faculty teaching in the Legal Methods program work collaboratively to implement and coordinate a curriculum that encourages creative, individualized course design while ensuring consistency and predictability in learning outcomes and assessments. Legal Methods is taught as a two-semester, required first-year course, which focuses on legal research, analysis, and communication in both the fall and spring semesters. The program emphasizes written and oral communication of objective analysis in the fall and written and oral communication of persuasive arguments in the spring. The law school's Legal Methods program is taught by full-time, dedicated faculty, who oversee the legal research, writing, and analysis training provided to first-year students. This teaching model allows the school to devote more time, study, and attention to supporting students as they develop the foundational skills so vital to immediate success in today's job market. Legal Methods students are also supported by a dedicated Writing Center, which is an integral part of the Legal Methods program. Through the Writing Center, students have access to writing workshops coordinated with the Legal Methods program one-on-one writing conferences with the Director of the Writing Center and upper-level-student Writing Fellows, who are trained and supervised by the Director of the Writing Center. Additionally, the Memphis Law Legal Writing Program has been ranked in the Top 40 Legal Writing programs in the country in the 2020 and 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. This successful rise in the rankings coincided with a "sea-change" in the way Memphis Law's Legal Methods Program was administered and taught, which was instituted and overseen by former Director of Legal Methods and current Associate Dean for Academic Affairs Jodi Wilson. The change shifted away from an adjunct-based program to a model with several full-time legal writing faculty members to expand the legal research, writing, and analysis training the program provides to its students and to better prepare them for the increased complexity of practice in today's legal environment. The pas and current success of the program is also due to the hard work of the dedicated full-time Legal Methods faculty members and the Director of the Writing Center. LEGAL METHODS PROGRAM FACULTY LEGAL WRITING CENTER COURSES Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/4/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.