Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Benefits Spotlight At-home COVID-19 tests options: Federal Government: Free at-⁠home COVID-⁠19 tests *Every home in the US is eligible to order a third round of free at-home tests. OptumRx: $0 copay or reimbursement *For anyone with health insurance through Brown Blue Cross Blue Shield: Member Reimbursement Form | FAQ's United Healthcare: Member Reimbursement Form | FAQ's *Members can also submit for reimbursement online at myuhc.com Please note that employees may use either their health insurance carrier or OptumRx for test reimbursement, but not both. Please continue to check back for updates. Form 1095-C is now available in Workday. Brown University provides this form to employees that were eligible or enrolled in a health insurance plan provided by Brown University in 2021, as required by the Affordable Care Act. You may provide this form to your tax preparer to use in preparing your 2021 tax returns. However, you do not need the actual form to be filed with your taxes. Please refer to the following IRS website for answers to questions you may have about this form: 1095-C Form FAQs To access your form in Workday: Log into Workday. On the Home Page and under the Quick Tasks, click on View All Apps Click on the Pay App On the right side of the page under View, click on My ACA Forms Choose VIEW/PRINT for the year 2021 to view or print your ACA form. Contact [email protected] with any questions. Get Started Earning Your 2022 Wellness Rewards! Wellness Rewards is a voluntary wellness incentive program designed to help you learn more about your personal health, motivate you to maintain or improve your overall well-being, and earn Rewards. Learn more. Now that our annual Open Enrollment period is behind us and you’ve made your benefit choices for 2022, please take some time to review this Benefits Checklist. It’s the best way to ensure you and your family start the new year without any benefit disruptions. Based on your elections, you may need to take one or more of the following actions: - Submit new dependent information - Provide Evidence of Insurability (EOI) - Set up your Health Savings Account (HSA) - Review your Flexible Spending Account and Retirement Plan contributions - Confirm your personal data - Check your beneficiary designations Benefits Orientation Staff Directory Vendor Directory Related Forms and Documents 2022 Decision Guide 2022 Rate Sheet for Dining Services 2022 Rate Sheet for Facilities Management Grades 106 and Below 2022 Rate Sheet for Facilities Management Grades Above 106 2022 Rate Sheet for Faculty and Staff 2022 Rate Sheet for Library 2022 Rate Sheet for Public Safety Benefits Eligibility and Contribution Schedule Benefits Guide for Employees Leaving Brown University Brown's Benefits: Did You Know? HIPAA Privacy Notice Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Leave of Absence Educational Benefits Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Also in University Human Resources Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Leave of Absence Educational Benefits Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat