Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Degree Programs J.D. Students Pre-Law Scholars Program Pre-Law Scholars Program A limited number of students (approximately 40 per year) are selected to join the Pre-Law Scholars Program before their enrollment as undergraduates at SMU. Students participating in the Pre-Law Scholars Program who satisfy certain conditions will be guaranteed admission into SMU Dedman School of Law upon completion of their undergraduate degrees. To be considered for the program, applicants must first be admitted to SMU as undergraduates and have marked Pre-Law as an area of interest on their admissions applications. Scholars will be selected based on the overall quality of their applications to SMU. No additional application or essay is required. Invitations to join the Pre-Law Scholars Program will be mailed after SMU’s regular decision notification date. To gain automatic admission into the SMU Dedman School of Law, Pre-Law Scholars must either: Earn at least a 3.80 cumulative undergraduate GPA* and score at least 153 on the LSAT; or Earn at least a 3.20 cumulative undergraduate GPA* and score at least 165 on the LSAT * as calculated by the Law School Admission Council Additionally, Pre-Law Scholars must meet the following requirements to gain automatic admission into the law school: Successful completion of the Pre-Law Scholars class taught by the law school No significant character issues and no previous law school attendance Completion of their undergraduate degree from SMU within five years On a space-available basis, continuing SMU undergraduate students with at least 12 hours may apply to join the program. The law school application fee will be waived for the SMU Pre-Law Scholars. View the PLS application for current SMU students. Events and Services: Each Pre-Law Scholar will be invited to special law-related events including: Distinguished visiting speakers (judges, prominent attorneys, etc.) Conferences and symposia Presentations on career paths and preparation Law school class visitation Law alumni panels Pre-Law Scholars will also have a unique opportunity to interact with current SMU Dedman School of Law students and faculty and will learn about serving the community through interaction with the law school’s public service program. Undergraduate Law-related Courses: Students who intend to study law must develop excellent speaking and writing skills as they are principal tools of the legal profession.While no specific undergradute courses are required for entry into law school, students may find some courses to be of particular interest: Business Law Concepts (BL 3310) Business Law (BL 3335) International Business Law (BL 3300 or BL 4300 – SMU Abroad) Environmental and Hazardous Waste Laws (CEE 5311) Free Speech and the First Amendment (CCPA 3300) Forensics Workshop (CCPA 4323) Competitive Mock Trial (CCPA 4324) Law and Economics (ECO 5353) Business Writing (ENGL 2302) Communication Law (JOUR 4316) Law and Ethics in a High-Tech World (JOUR 4370) Introduction to Critical Thinking (PHIL 1300) Elementary Logic (PHIL 1301) Philosophy of Criminal Law (PHIL 3373) Philosophy of Law (PHIL 3374) Introduction to International Relations (PLSC 1380) Law, Politics, and the Supreme Court (PLSC 3330) Supreme Court Seminar (PLSC 4332) Civil Liberties: First Amendment and Privacy (PLSC 4336) Civil Rights (PLSC 4337) Criminal Procedure: 4th Amendment Rights (PLSC 4338) Criminal Procedure: 5th and 6th Amendment Rights (PLSC 4339) Psychology of Conflict Resolution (PSYC 4363) Crime and Delinquency (SOCI 3363) The Administration of Justice (SOCI 4363) Correctional Systems (SOCI 4364) Additional Information: For more information on the Pre-Law Scholars program, please contact your SMU admissions counselor or call 214-768-2058. J.D. Students Required First Year Courses Full-time J.D. Programs J.D. Transfer Students J.D. Visitor Pre-Law Scholars Program Curriculum Planning Your Academic Program J.D. Student Learning Outcomes Bar Exam Information Contact J.D. Programs Apply Request info Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram