Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Computer Science VISIT COMPUTER SCIENCE Computer science is now integral to almost every field of study, from engineering and the natural and social sciences, to economics and business, and increasingly to the heavily text-based fields of literature and history. The trend is irreversible, driven by more powerful computers, larger data sets, the conversion of text and imagery into data, and better, more optimized algorithms. Department Overview The Department of Computer Science is dedicated to making computer science accessible to the wider student population. For majors, the department offers everything from introductory CS and programming classes to advanced instruction in 10 research areas with opportunities for undergrads to work on research projects. For nonmajors, the department is expanding its interdisciplinary offerings. As one example, Computing in Context combines lectures in basic computer science—taught by a computer science professor—with lectures and projects by humanities, social science, and other professors outside CS who show how those skills and methods apply to a specific liberal arts discipline. Research Theory Software Systems Graphics and User Interfaces Computer Engineering NLP and Speech Networking Security and Privacy Vision and Robotics Computational Biology Machine Learning Advanced Degrees for Broadening Understanding of CS Columbia University and the New York City environment provide excellent career opportunities with multiple industries. For those wanting to deepen and expand their computer science skills, the MS program provides advanced education in several computer science tracks while offering opportunities to participate in state-of-the-art research. Those pursuing PhD studies will work alongside world-class researchers to innovate new techniques and algorithms as they tackle hard problems across science, technology, and society. Faculty Faculty within the department include leading researchers who are dedicated to excellence in undergraduate and graduate education and research. As the number of students enrolling in computer science classes increases, the department is expanding the number of teaching-oriented faculty to ensure a solid grounding in computer science skills and methods for all students. See the department faculty page for a full faculty list. Contact the Department Department of Computer Science Columbia University 500 West 120 Street Room 450, Mail Code 0401 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-853-8400 Fax: 212-666-0140 Email – Undergrads: [email protected] Email – Grad students: [email protected] Computer Engineering Program The Computer Engineering program combines key aspects of electrical engineering and computer science. Whether pursuing a BS or Master of Science degree, students learn the fundamentals of circuits, systems, and software associated with the design of programmable systems used in general purpose computing, communications, control, and signal processing. Learn More About Computer Engineering Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University