Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Human Resources Menu Toggle Search Jobs@ISU Adventure2 Workday HR Portal Main navigation Careers Job Seekers Manage Your Career New Employee Employee Benefits Insurance Additional Benefits Prospective/New Employees Retiree Benefits Retirement Plans HR Delivery About Directory Services Employee Tools ISU WorkLife Growth & Development Managers of Student Employees Labor/Union Relations Time and Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Accommodations Employee Management Conflict in the Workplace Forms Benefits Careers Requests Contact Welcome to Iowa State University Human Resources UHR MISSION UHR is committed to advancing Iowa State University as a premier place to work and learn. Learn about University Human Resources Explore the valuable self-help resources to answer common questions found within our Human Resources Portal. UHR Service Center Hours Academic Year 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Summer/Holiday Hours 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Announcements P&S Performance Evaluations Due June 1, 2022 Annual evaluations are required and must be entered into Workday and acknowledged by the supervisor and employee by June 1. Visit HR Portal TIAA 1:1 Retirement Planning Consultations on Campus the second Tuesday and third Thursday of each month in Beardshear 3680 and the third Thursday of each month in Communications Building 1127. Virtual meetings also available. Book your appointment now Feedback on UHR "All was handled in a timely and professional manner. Very welcoming to assist and answer questions." October 2021 "Excellent customer service. I am so pleased these interactions are personal, thoughtful, and willing to explain, revise and complete in a timely manner." November 2021 UHR Navigation Careers Employee Benefits HR Delivery Employee Tools Forms Contact UHR Organizational Chart - Click Here! Employee Tools New Employees Everything new employees need to know when beginning their adventure at Iowa State. Information for New Employees Student Employees Information for graduate and undergraduate student employees. Information for Student Employees Retired Employees Getting ready to retire or currently retired? Learn how your adventure continues. ISU Retiree Benefits Growth & Development The courses you'll find here are designed to help you develop your professional skills and advance your adventure at Iowa State. Growth & Development Student Insurance Insurance coverage for students, visiting scholars and their dependents. Student & Scholar Health Insurance Program WorkLife Dedicated to supporting the well-being of our campus community in the pursuit of meaningful, balanced, and productive lives. WorkLife 18,212 Employees at ISU 853 New Hires in 2020 Iowa State University University Human Resources Contact University Human Resources 3810 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, IA 50011 hrshelp@iastate.edu 515-294-4800 phone 515-294-8226 fax Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...