Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Leave of Absence Below are the Harvard Graduate School of Design’s policies for students on Leave of Absence (LOA). To obtain the Leave of Absence petition please contact the Registrar. Voluntary Leaves of Absence The deadline to petition for a leave of absence during the fall 2022 semester is Wednesday, June 15. Students who wish to halt their studies at any time prior to graduation may request a leave of absence. Requests for a leave of absence are approved by a student’s Program Director. With respect to a voluntary leave of absence for medical reasons, the Dean of Students may consult with Harvard University Health Services (which may consider information from the student’s current and/or former health care providers, if made available by the student). Leaves of Absence for Master’s Degree Students A student may take a voluntary Leave of Absence for not more than one year, or two academic terms. A student must have been enrolled and completed one semester prior to taking a leave. Occasionally, a Program Director might approve the extension of a Leave of Absence beyond one academic year, or two terms, for medical reasons, in consultation with the Dean of Students. Absences beyond four consecutive semesters for any reason are not allowed. The deadline for application for a leave of absence is June 15th for fall semester or full year leaves, and November 10 for spring semester leaves. Leaves for documented personal emergencies or medical issues will be accepted at any time. Students interested in pursuing a leave should contact the Registrar and, after receiving the leave petition, have their Program Director sign it, in addition to the Financial Aid Office, if on aid or a have a loan. International students will also need to fill out and complete an HIO-specific form. Note that depending on the number of leave petitions received, and the timing of your planned return to the GSD, due to possible space constraints, a lottery may need to be held to determine if you will be able to return during the semester you have indicated. If a leave petition is approved, a student can request to rescind the petition no later than three days after the announcement regarding the results of a return lottery, if one is needed. All requests will be considered shortly after that date and granted based on the number of students asking to cancel their planned LOA and the impact on the program(s). Thus the ability to rescind cannot be guaranteed. At this point, we still hope not to have to resort to a LOA lottery. Once we have a better understanding of how many students plan to take a LOA, we’ll have a better sense of how to handle the returns. The deadline for taking a LOA without becoming liable for payment of tuition is listed in the Academic Calendar and under the section on Tuition and Expenses. After that date, tuition is charged to the end of the tuition period in which a student takes a LOA. If students wish to continue their health insurance while on leave, they must contact the Member Services Office at 617-495-2008. A student who fails to register for the next regular academic term following a leave of absence will be withdrawn automatically as of the end of the term in which the Leave of Absence expired. A student who is withdrawn must reapply for admission. Financial aid recipients must reapply for financial aid. Please contact the Financial Aid Office well in advance of your return from leave. If approved, an MDE student may take a full-year leave of absence (LOA). Due to the sequential nature of the program, students may not take a single-semester LOA. MArch and MDES students who plan on taking a leave of absence for any length of time must speak with the Registrar about the ramifications this will have on their ability to “split” during their last semester at the GSD. Leaves of Absence for International Students International students who plan on taking a leave of absence may want to speak with the GSD’s contact at the Harvard International Office (HIO), Ivana Hrga-Griggs, about the immigration-related ramifications of taking a leave, particularly potential ramifications on optional practical training (OPT) and curricular practical training (CPT) eligibility. International students who take a leave of absence must be aware of how this might affect his or her visa status and practical training eligibility. If, after reading the HIO-specific leave form, you stil have questions, please go to the HIO web site to to make an appointment in order to speak with Ivana. The HIO is located on the eighth floor of the Smith Student Center in Harvard Square. Leaves of Absence for Doctoral Students A Doctor of Design student may apply to the Advanced Studies Programs (ASP) committee for a leave of absence of up to two semesters after the first year of study, provided the general examination has been passed. Such a leave of absence may be used for collection of data, related field research, or for personal reasons. Students with health or medical issues requiring a leave of absence should likely meet with the Dean of Students, who will help the student make appropriate arrangements for the duration of the leave as well as plans to return, and will ensure compliance with all academic rules. Regardless of a leave of absence, the residency requirement for the Doctor of Design program is four academic semesters, and the maximum length of time for the program is four academic years since matriculation. A student must be registered for the semester in which the thesis is submitted for approval. Leaves of Absence/Withdrawals and Financial Aid In cases where the student has been the recipient of financial assistance in the form of loans or scholarships, withdrawal may result in a refund of all or part of the aid to the lender or granting agency. The net amount of refund which is payable to the student shall be paid directly to the student after disbursements to lenders or scholarship funds have been made. A special refund rule applies to Title IV student aid which includes Stafford Unsubsidized Loans and GradPLUS loans. This may necessitate repayment of a portion of the student’s Stafford loan to the federal government or to his/her lending institution. Students who are taking a leave of absence and have received federal or alternative loans will enter their grace period and/or possibly repayment depending on prior enrollment history. It is the student’s responsibility to contact the Financial Aid office before taking their leave, in order to understand loan implications. For federal aid borrowers who leave during the semester, a calculation will be performed to determine how much federal loan money the student is entitled to keep. The number of days in the semester is compared to the number of days completed before the leave. For example, a student who has completed 17% of the days in a semester can maintain 17% of the federal loans disbursed (or set to disburse) for that semester. The Financial Aid Office will perform a calculation and advise the student. The student always has the option to cancel all of their loans. For the purposes of the federal aid calculation, the date of the leave/withdrawal is the date the student signed the Petition for Leave/Withdrawal (petitions will only be accepted if all required signatures are provided). The official end of the enrollment date may be different from the federal calculation date. If a student does not complete the Leave petition, then we will use the date of any written correspondence or communications related to the leave. While on Leave of Absence Any student who goes on leave of absence during the academic year is charged tuition and any applicable fees, including rent, to the end of the period in which he or she leaves. Students receiving scholarship or other financial aid should consult the Financial Aid Office concerning the financial implications of going on leave. Foreign students should consult the International Office concerning their status. You are not considered a student when taking a leave of absence, and therefore may lose access to certain benefits available to enrolled students (see below), such as eligibility to fulfill student jobs at the GSD and elsewhere at Harvard. Libraries and other facilities normally may be used only by students who are currently registered (see below). Students on leave may not participate in extracurricular activities. Exceptions to this rule must be specifically approved in advance by the School. If so instructed by the Dean of Students, a student on leave must remain away from the University campus. Students going on leave are reminded that all degree candidates, whether currently registered or not, are expected to maintain a satisfactory standard of conduct. Following an individualized assessment, the School may require students who are on leave for medical reasons to comply with a treatment plan during their time away. ID Cards Students do not have active ID cards while they are on Leave of Absence. Access to GSD Computing Resources Students’ GSD email accounts remain active for the duration of their Leave of Absence. Students on leave do not have any access to Design School computing facilities or technical support. Here is a list of resources most often utilized by students, and whether they have access to them while on leave: my.harvard: continued access VPN: continued access Canvas: continued access (to all past materials) Hollis: can maintain access, but must arrange for this with the registrar Harvard Zoom: cannot access Adobe Creative Cloud: cannot access Qualtrics: cannot access while on leave, but account and data are preserved and access will be reinstated on return Library Privileges For policies regarding library access while on a leave of absence, please consult the Loeb Library’s information here. Access to Career Services For information regarding Career Services while on a leave of absence, please consult their information here. Health Insurance The date a student goes on leave will affect the student’s health insurance through Harvard. For details, review the leave of absence policy on the HUHS website, or contact the Student Health Insurance Office, Member Services, at 617-495-2008 or mservices@huhs.harvard.edu. Harvard Housing Students cannot maintain leases on Harvard housing while on leave, or reside in Harvard dormitories. Letter of Certification Students on a Leave of Absence may request a Letter of Certification via the Document Request Form. The Letter of Certification will state the date that you began your course of study at the GSD, the fact that you are on an approved Leave of Absence, as well as the date you are expected to receive your degree. Involuntary Leaves of Absence Under certain circumstances, a student may be placed on an involuntary leave of absence. An involuntary leave of absence is not a disciplinary sanction. However, an incident that gives rise to a leave of absence, whether voluntary or involuntary, may subsequently be the basis for disciplinary action. A student who prefers to take a voluntary leave of absence for medical reasons rather than to be placed on an involuntary leave of absence for medical reasons is ordinarily allowed to do so. Transcripts do not distinguish between voluntary and involuntary leaves of absence. An involuntary leave of absence may be required for the following reasons: Medical circumstances: (a) The student’s behavior poses a direct threat to the health or safety of any person, or has seriously disrupted others in the student’s residential community or academic environment; and (b) either the student’s threatening, self-destructive, or disruptive behavior is determined to be the result of a medical condition or the student has refused to cooperate with efforts by Harvard University Health Services to determine the cause of the behavior. The decision to place a student on an involuntary leave of absence for health related reasons is made in consultation with Harvard University Health Services (which may consider information from the student’s current and/or former health care providers, if made available by the student), after an individualized assessment of all of the pertinent factors, such as: the nature of the student’s conduct; the nature, duration and severity of the risk; the likelihood of potential injury; and whether reasonable modifications of policies, practices or procedures will mitigate the risk. However, reasonable modifications do not include changes that would fundamentally alter the academic program or unduly burden the School’s resources or staffing capabilities or, with respect to the required level of care or monitoring, that would exceed the standard of care that a university health service can be expected to provide. Alleged criminal behavior: The student has been arrested on allegations of serious criminal behavior or has been charged with such behavior by law enforcement authorities. Risk to the community. The student has been charged with a violation of a disciplinary rule of the School, and his or her presence on campus poses a significant risk to the safety of others or to the educational environment of the community. The student’s term bill is unpaid and the student has not made arrangements acceptable to the School to address the issue. Failure to provide medical documentation of required immunizations. Unfulfilled academic requirements. The student has not met an academic requirement and has not taken steps acceptable to the School to meet the requirement. Failure to register. The student has not registered as required at the beginning of each term. The decision to place a student on involuntary leave is made by the Dean of Students in consultation with the executive dean and the student’s program director. As noted above, in the case of an involuntary leave of absence for medical reasons, the School will consult with an appropriate person at Harvard University Health Services. A student is notified in writing that he or she has been placed on involuntary leave. The student may petition the Dean of Students for reconsideration and may appeal a final decision to the Dean of the School. Returning to School A student in good standing on a voluntary leave of absence is expected to return to the school after the term(s) of the leave noted on the student’s leave petition. It remains the student’s responsibility to ensure that he or she has adequate time to complete the degree within the time limits established by the School. Students who were not in good standing at the time a voluntary leave of absence was granted, or students who were placed on an involuntary leave of absence for non-medical reasons, need to petition the Dean of Students for permission to return to the School and must demonstrate that the circumstances that led to their leave have been satisfactorily addressed and that they are ready to resume their studies. The decision whether to allow a student to return is made by the Dean of Students, in consultation with the chairperson of the Administrative Board or such other person as the Dean designates. If the leave was involuntary for medical reasons, the student must petition the Dean of Students for permission to return to the School and must demonstrate that the circumstances that led to their leave have been satisfactorily addressed and that they are ready to resume their studies, among other measures. In addition, so that the School may conduct an individualized assessment of their circumstances, students on involuntary medical leave ordinarily will be required to consult with Harvard University Health Services (and to grant permission to Harvard University Health Services to obtain their treatment records and communicate with their treatment providers) so that a professional assessment about the student’s stability and readiness to return can be shared with the School. The decision whether to allow a student to return is made by the Dean of Students in consultation with the executive dean and the student’s program director. Please also note that if the School learns of serious concerns about the health or well-being of a student who is away from School for any reason, the School may require the student to consult with Harvard University Health Services (and to grant permission to Harvard University Health Services to obtain their treatment records and communicate with their treatment providers) so that a professional assessment about the student’s stability and readiness to return can be shared with the School. In all such cases, the decision whether to allow a student to return is made by the Dean of Students in consultation with the executive dean and the student’s program director. Any disciplinary matter must be resolved before a student on leave of absence will be allowed to return and, if the student has been required to withdraw while on leave of absence, then any conditions for return after a required withdrawal also must be satisfied. Students returning from a leave who wish to apply for financial aid must notify the Financial Aid Office and file the necessary application forms by mid-April for the following fall term, and by October 1 for the following spring term. Late applicants cannot be assured that their aid will be available in time for registration payment deadlines. Students who have been granted a leave and who have borrowed money through Harvard must submit an annual loan deferment form to the Student Loan Office upon their return to Harvard. Deferment forms may be obtained through either the Student Loan Office or the Financial Aid Office and must be completed and certified by the Registrar immediately following Registration. Failure to file a deferment form upon return will cause payments to be due on loans and could affect future borrowing eligibility. A student will not be allowed to register in the University again until all previous term-bill charges have been paid and no loan is in default. Contracts for Enrollment The School may condition a student’s enrollment on certain terms or conditions, as set forth in a written contract between the School and the student, when the student’s conduct or circumstances have caused heightened concerns about the student’s safety and/or well-being and: (a) the appropriateness of the student’s continued enrollment; or (b) the student’s readiness to return to the Harvard community. The contract may include, among other things, compliance with a medical treatment plan, regular consultations with health care professionals, communication with administrators, and limited disclosure of relevant medical information, on a need to know basis, such as compliance with treatment and restrictions on certain activities. The decision to require such a contract is arrived at in consultation with Harvard University Health Services after an individualized assessment of the nature of the student’s conduct and circumstances and any other pertinent factors. Withdrawals A student who wishes to withdraw from the GSD should discuss the matter with his or her assigned faculty advisor or program director and the registrar or the Dean of Students. A letter indicating reasons for withdrawal should then be filed with the registrar. The deadline for withdrawing without becoming liable for payment of tuition is listed in the Academic Calendar and on the registrar’s website. After that date, tuition is charged to the end of the tuition period in which a student withdraws. A student who fails to register by the deadline for late registration in a given term will be withdrawn automatically as of that date, unless a leave of absence has been approved. Students who withdraw must reapply for admission. Leave of Absence/Withdrawals Tuition Charges The deadline to petition for a leave of absence during the fall 2022 semester is June 15. Go here for general information regarding your student account. Any student who is granted an exceptional leave or withdraws from the university after the semester begins will be held responsible for tuition charges according to the following schedule: Fall 2021 Semester Leaves/withdrawals on or before September 15: no tuition charge Leaves/withdrawals on or before October 7: one-fourth tuition charge Leaves/withdrawals on or before November 5: one-half tuition charge Leaves/withdrawals on or before December 3: three-fourths tuition charge After December 3: full tuition charge Spring 2022 Semester Leaves/withdrawals on or before February 7: no tuition charge Leaves/withdrawals on or before February 25: one-fourth tuition charge Leaves/withdrawals on or before March 17: one-half tuition charge Leaves/withdrawals on or before April 25: three-fourths tuition charge After April 25: full tuition charge Based on the above calendar, if a student is to receive a refund, they should email financial_aid@gsd.harvard.edu. The refund will be provided within 5-7 business days from the date the request is made, assuming the student has set up direct deposit. IF direct deposit is not set up, the refund should be mailed within 7-10 business days. Leave of Absence (LOA) FAQs: Why is there a June 15 deadline for LOA applications? What happens if a lot of students want to take leaves? Each single leave of absence decision, if compounded by large numbers, will have an enormous repercussion on the entirety of our GSD community. We need to know enrollment numbers to plan for the number of studios, courses and visiting faculty in order to provide the resources needed for students who will be enrolled in the fall. If LOAs occur in large numbers, we may not have enough capacity to accommodate everyone returning in spring 2023 or fall 2024, so we cannot guarantee an immediate return to a chosen semester; we need to know numbers in order to know if we have the capacity to accommodate returning students. One option, if request numbers are large, is that we would create a lottery system to ensure equity. Another option we are considering is that LOAs may need to be extended until enrollment normalizes and space is available. If my situation changes over the summer, can I apply to take a LOA after the deadline? Late petitions will be considered, but only for medical issues. If I take a LOA for the fall semester, can I extend it? A student can petition for one semester or a full year by June 15, and if the original petition is for the fall only, a student can petition to extend to the spring by the spring petition deadline of November 10. If my LOA is approved for the fall semester, can I change my mind and enroll? If a leave petition is approved, a student can request to rescind the petition no later than three days after the announcement regarding the results of a return lottery, if one is needed. All requests will be considered shortly after that date, and granted based on the number of students asking to cancel their planned LOA and the impact on the program(s). Thus the ability to rescind cannot be guaranteed. Can I audit classes while on LOA? No. Can I extend my health insurance while on a LOA? The last date of health coverage will be July 31. A Student can pay to extend Harvard-based coverage for six months while on leave; students need to have been on the health plan immediately prior to taking a leave in order to be eligible. Consult the Member Services web site for more information here. How do I stay connected to the GSD while on a LOA? Students’ GSD email addresses remain active while on leave. Students continue to be enrolled in student-announce and gsd-fellow-student but can unsubscribe to gsd-fellow-student at any time. What are the implications for a LOA for international students? Students must be enrolled for two consecutive semesters in order to be eligible for CPT. When returning from leave, if students only have one semester of study remaining, they will not be eligible for OPT. Students must be enrolled for two consecutive semesters on their F-1 visa in the United States in order to be eligible to apply for OPT. Are there specific program restrictions if I take a LOA? Please speak with your Program Director if you are considering taking a LOA to get the relevant information about your specific program requirements and the impact of a LOA on your progress toward degree completion. Related Leave of Absence Leave of Absence Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26