Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Clinical Health Services Research Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Clinical Health Services Research Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Clinical Health Services Research Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Clinical Health Services Research Graduate Certificate The Clinical Health Services Research (CHSR) Graduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Public Health is a 12-credit program that trains students in the foundations of health services and population health research, with the goal of becoming informed collaborating members of healthcare research teams. This certificate is tailored to clinicians and other healthcare professionals who want to engage in population research. Healthcare professionals are becoming increasingly interested in health services research, which focuses on how personal behaviors, societal factors, organizational structures and health technologies affect access to medical care, quality and cost of care, and health outcomes at the population level (rather than at the level of the individual patient). Health services research is interdisciplinary by nature, involving both healthcare providers and public health professionals, including health economists and epidemiologists. You will gain the skills and knowledge to participate in a broad range of health services research projects and help advance the triple aim of healthcare: improving the patient experience of care, improving the health of populations and reducing healthcare costs. Students will learn to develop ideas and research questions for health services research, identify appropriate research methods to address these questions, understand the implications of research results, and communicate those results to various audiences. The admissions process you'll follow depends on if you are applying as a matriculated or non-matriculated graduate student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this certificate program. What sets apart our CHSR Certificate? A unique opportunity for healthcare providers: This certificate provides a focused, brief foundation in health services research for clinicians who are unsure whether they want to pursue a full master’s degree. It is the only program of its kind in the Philadelphia region. An interdisciplinary, flexible program: This program provides a foundation in research methods, and then allows students to choose from elective courses based on their research interests and career development goals. A bridge to the MS in Clinical Research and Translational Medicine: Students interested in continuing their studies in a full master’s degree program can count certificate courses toward completion of the MS in Clinical Research and Translational Medicine, offered jointly by Temple’s College of Public Health and Lewis Katz School of Medicine. Program Curriculum The 12-credit certificate may be completed in one year or spread out over multiple years. Students may enter the certificate program in any semester and can complete the courses in any order, depending on course availability and prerequisites. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising to students in each department. If you have questions about the certificate program, contact the program director. Jennifer Ibrahim Certificate Program Director Phone: 215-204-9657 Email: jennifer.ibrahim@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees MS in Clinical Research and Translational Medicine Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-CHSR-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Clinical Health Services Research Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info