Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW University of Wyoming Honors College The Honors College is 100% about the students — a truly exceptional group of people who make a difference at UW and in the world. Honors scholars are intellectually curious students from all majors who are creative, inspired by diverse ideas, and seek a greater understanding of their place in society. With an average of 250 students in the first-year class, and over 800 Honors students overall, each enjoys interdisciplinary courses uniquely created and taught within the Honors College, while earning an undergraduate minor degree in Honors. Combine excellent students with superb faculty in small classes and the result is an invigorating and highly effective learning environment. Honors faculty talk with students, not at them. Honors students thrive in this stimulating environment, develop lasting friendships, and succeed in their academic and professional pursuits. A Message from Dean Parolin Graduation 2022 and the non-binary nature of sex Congratulations to the 2022 Graduates Explore the Honors College Minor Requirements of the Honors College Minor Fall 2022 Course Offerings Preview Information and Resources Summer 2022 Course Offerings Honors Weekly Newsletters Spring 2022 Late Start Courses Honors Sponsored Internships Prospective Students Why Join Honors? Incoming First-Year Students and Transfer Students Current UW Students News and Events Colloquium II: Human? Check out our what our Colloquium students are exploring each week! Honors Magazine Read stories that showcase the intellectual vibrancy and supportive community that define the Honors College Study Abroad/Away programs Itching to travel? Explore Honors Abroad Programs Honors College Clay Fellows Meet our 2021-2022 Clay Fellows Faculty On Donating to the Honors College Donate to the Honors College Learn more about Honors Students Student Resources Housing Research Grants Travel Scholarships Honors Colloquium Honors Capstone Study Abroad/Away Summer Bridge Advising SOAR Connect to the Community SOAR Mentors Need help with SOAR? Saturday U Enjoy lectures by UW professors WHO Check out our student leadership Donate to UW Give to the Honors College Faculty and Staff Deans Office and Honors Staff Core Honors Faculty Affiliate Honors Faculty Honors Clay Fellows Contact Us The Honors College Guthrie House 1200 Ivinson St. Laramie, WY 82070 Phone: 307-766-4110 Fax: 307-766-4298 Email: honors@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility