Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Office of the President Office of the President Menu UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Home Office of the President University of Washington President Ana Mari Cauce President Ana Mari Cauce Ana Mari Cauce is the 33rd president of the UW. A professor of psychology and member of the UW faculty since 1986, she was named president in October 2015. Under her leadership, the UW is advancing all areas of its educational, research and service missions, with initiatives focused on innovation, race and equity, and population health. BIOGRAPHY BLOG INVITE THE PRESIDENT INITIATIVES Latest updates Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation May 24, 2022 May is recognized as National Asian American, Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, and it’s our opportunity to recognize the diverse Asian American (AA) and Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander (NHPI) people, cultures and communities whose stories and contributions have always been – and continue to be – a vital part of our nation’s… We can all play a part in working to end racist violence May 16, 2022 As we grieve for the victims in Buffalo, we must examine our own responsibilities and capacity for reversing what has become a public health crisis. Ending violence against Indigenous people starts with ending silence around it May 4, 2022 As a society and a community, we share a responsibility to raise awareness and end the crisis of violence affecting Indigenous women, girls, LGBTQIA+, and two-spirit people. This epidemic demands attention, resources and action. View more posts Subscribe Email RSS Initiatives Race and Equity All of us — students, faculty, staff and university leadership — have a responsibility to address our own biases and improve our university culture. More Population Health At the UW, we believe improving population health worldwide is a moral imperative, driven by our public mission of service to all. More Innovation Imperative The UW Innovation Imperative empowers students and researchers to learn, discover and build solutions to tomorrow’s challenges. More More initiatives Reimagining Safety at the University of Washington Creating learning, working and living environments that enable each of us to be successful requires a holistic approach to safety and well-being that brings together a range of resources in a coordinated, accountable manner. As we continuously evaluate the safety of our community, a rethinking of how we keep our University community safe is required. Learn More How to get vaccinated Everyone age 5 and older is eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccination at no cost, and vaccines are required for UW students and personnel. Learn more President’s Twitter Tweets by amcauce Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Invite the president Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request. Contact us Office of the President 206-543-5010pres@uw.edu Margaret Shepherd Chief of Staff 206-399-1496mshep@uw.edu Stephanie Court Executive Assistant to the President 206-543-5010shcourt@uw.edu Maegan Reilly Constituent Relations Manager Executive Assistant to the Chief of Staff 206-685-3354maeganlr@uw.edu Address 301 Gerberding Hall Box 351230 Seattle, WA 98195 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA