Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center 2022 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Celebration The fierce urgency of now. Let’s DO what’s RIGHT. Speakers, performers and honorees took part in Clemson's 2021 MLK Commemoration Service held at the Brooks Center for the Performing Arts. 2022 MLK Day Events We invite students, faculty, staff and community members to participate in the programs listed for the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Celebration at Clemson University. We offer a variety of opportunities to learn, serve and engage with activities to help us remember the importance of King’s teachings about respecting human rights, understanding social justice and doing what’s right. Monday, 1.17.22 | Day of Service Virtual Community Partner Panel and Poverty Simulator 10-11 a.m. Virtual Panel Discussion Join in on a timely conversation with local Clemson community partners and student organizations on campus. In this panel, students will learn what our local nonprofits need from volunteers to make Clemson a better place. 11 a.m.-1 p.m. Virtual Poverty Simulator Following the panel, students will engage in a highly interactive role-playing experience designed to help participants to understand the challenges and realities of families in low-income scenarios. Blood Drive Giving blood is one of the most important ways to give back to your community. With blood supplies at an all-time low across the country at this time, especially in the Upstate of South Carolina, please take a moment to visit the Blood Connection website and register to give blood at a location near you. Tuesday, 1.18.22 40th annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Keynote Program 6 p.m. Limited in-person attendance Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Marc Lamont Hill is one of the leading intellectual voices in the country. He is currently the host of BET News and a former political contributor for CNN. An award-winning journalist, Hill has received numerous prestigious awards from the National Association of Black Journalists, GLAAD and the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences. Hill is the Steve Charles Professor of Media, Cities and Solutions at Temple University. Prior to that, he held positions at Columbia University and Morehouse College. Since his youth growing up in Philadelphia, Hill has been a social justice activist and organizer. He is a founding board member of My5th, a nonprofit organization devoted to educating youth about their legal rights and responsibilities. He is also a board member and organizer with the Philadelphia Student Union. Hill also works closely with the ACLU Drug Reform Project, focusing on drug informant policy. In recent years, he has actively worked on campaigns to end the death penalty and to release numerous political prisoners. Ebony magazine has named Hill one of America’s 100 most influential Black leaders. He is the author or co-author of four books: “Beats, Rhymes, and Classroom Life: Hip-Hop Pedagogy and the Politics of Identity,” “The Classroom and the Cell: Conversations on Black Life in America,” New York Times bestseller “Nobody: Casualties of America’s War on the Vulnerable from Ferguson to Flint and Beyond,” and “Gentrifier.” He has also published two edited books: “Media, Learning, and Sites of Possibility” and “Schooling Hip-Hop: New Directions in Hip-Hop Based Education.” Trained as an anthropologist of education, Hill holds a Ph.D. (with distinction) from the University of Pennsylvania. His research focuses on the intersections between culture, politics and education in the United States and the Middle East. Friday, 1.21.22 MLK Civil Rights Trip: A virtual experience The fierce urgency of now. Let’s DO what’s RIGHT. The annual MLK Civil Rights Trip provided Clemson students with an opportunity to learn about the history of civil rights in America. More recent experiences have included tours of historical landmarks and museums in Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. Given the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken a virtual route to connect you all with a rich experience. Please see the details below. The National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. Or take a virtual tour of the museum here. The Clemson Area African American Museum welcomes you to commemorate Martin Luther King Jr.’s vision through attending the following exhibits: “Mirrored Hues: Seeing Self in the Colors” by Ashley Mintz Rosenwald Schools exhibit The Clemson Area African American Museum is located at 214 Butler Street, Clemson, SC 29631. Past MLK Day Events MLK Celebration History For current updates and guidance related to COVID-19 protocols at Clemson University, visit clemson.edu/covid-19. Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration MLK Celebration History MLK Keynote Speaker Multicultural Programs Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram