Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Development and Alumni Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Development and Alumni We Don’t Just Practice Medicine. We Change It. The Office of Development is dedicated to cultivating relationships with grateful patients, alumni, donors, and partners to advance the mission of Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) and further its role as a global leader in patient care, research, education, and community service. We raise support through major gifts, annual funds, and events for a variety of areas including clinical and research programs; professorships to support the recruitment and retention of faculty; student financial aid; research fellowships; and capital projects. Our donors include individuals – grateful patients, alumni and friends – as well as foundations and corporations. We collaborate closely with faculty to build and maintain excellent lifetime relationships with volunteer leaders and donors to this campus. We invite you to partner with us in building the future of medicine. Make a donation to CUIMC. Contact Office of Development Leadership. Alumni Affairs There are many ways for alumni of the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, the College of Dental Medicine, the School of Nursing, and the Mailman School of Public Health to stay connected with each other and get involved with the exciting initiatives at the Medical Center. Visit the pages below to learn more about our alumni programs. CUIMC Alumni Organizations VP&S Alumni Dental Alumni Nursing Alumni Mailman School of Public Health Alumni Want to keep your Columbia email address after you graduate? Visit the Columbia Alumni Association website. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top