Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Animal Magnetism In Focus Animal Magnetism Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Our neighbors in the animal kingdom have always fascinated, confused, and inspired us. Through research and observation, we can better understand them and ourselves. Anemones and their enemies A team of researchers from Nicholas Bellono’s lab has discovered how the trigger system of jellyfish and sea anemones stinging works on a molecular level. Read more about the mechanisms behind stingers Butterﬂies How do these seemingly fragile creatures survive so well? What more can we learn about their evolutionary process? A clue to biodiversity? A study reveals a surprising amount of gene flow between butterfly species. Learn more about how butterflies evolved Unlocking the colors of insect vision Scientists have found a novel way to isolate light-sensitive proteins, which may lead to evolutionary insights. Read more about butterfly vision Butterfly wings inspire air-purification improvements Researchers are developing a new type of catalytic coating that is inspired by the honeycomb-like nanostructure of a butterfly’s wing. Read more about butterfly wings Highways and the health of butterflies A Graduate School of Design studio is exploring the relationship between the health of insect populations and the health of our landscapes. Read more about butterfly health Animal mimicry How do some animals achieve abilities far beyond humans? How can we copy and gain those abilities? Learning to school Fish-inspired robots coordinate movements without any outside control. Read the Wyss Institute article Snake feet Snake skin-inspired grips could help seniors keep their footing. Read more about these grippers The tentacle bot An octopus-inspired robot can grip, move, and manipulate a wide range of objects. Read more about these grabbers Healing slime A slug goo-inspired bandage could be a tough yet flexible treatment for babies in the womb. Read more about this goo The evolution of evolution Why do animals look and act like they do? Did they look and act differently before? Seeing squid more clearly Harvard researchers shed new light on squid eye development and convergent evolution. Read more about the evolution of squid eyes A modern-day Darwin Trailblazing biologist and beloved mentor E. O. Wilson passed away in 2021. He was a leading expert on ants, insects, and biodiversity, pioneering the field of sociobiology, which sought to explain the evolutionary basis behind social behavior. How did vertebrates go from the water to the land? A new wrinkle in the wolf-to-dog evolution New paper suggests the Spinosaurus may have been aquatic How flightless birds evolved The evolution of the snake body plan Art’s long obsession Why have so many artists taken inspiration from animals? What can that teach us about history? Face to face Explore the portraits of Harvard’s Museum of Natural History animals by Jana Matusz. View the exhibition Animals in children's literature Explore the virtual exhibit Silver fox head cup Learn about this vessel How mapmakers used animals to document the world Learn about the maps Stories inspired by animal encounters Learn about Will Mackin's book Creatures on campus See all the animals on campus Whale painting with a purpose Learn more about the intersection of art and endangered animals Animals from ancient Egypt Learn about ancient Egypt's fascination with animals Tiger shadow puppet Learn about the tiger Creatures’ comforts Are we responsible for protecting animals? What kind of rights should animals have? The laws of nature According to Harvard Law School lecturer Jonathan Lovvorn, saving the planet and its inhabitants from climate catastrophe begins with the world’s most vulnerable population: animals. Read more on The Harvard Gazette The vegans are coming In replicating the look and taste of real meat, companies are appealing to the mainstream consumer. Learn more about new meatless options “Fellow Creatures” In her new book, Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Christine Korsgaard makes the case that humans are not inherently more important than animals and therefore should treat them much better than we do. Learn more about Christine Korsgaard’s work The gift of a good life A gift to Harvard Law School’s Animal Law & Policy Program is improving quality of life for farm animals both in the U.S. and globally. Learn more about this Law School program Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00