Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Academic Support Services Show/Hide Home Meet Our Team Academic Coaching Workshops Resources Studying Strategies Wellness and Self-Care Videos About Us Welcome to the Academic Support Services website! We are a team of dedicated upper-level students (juniors, seniors, and medical students) who aim to provide our student peers with academic coaching, drop-in advising, workshops, resources, and more to support their academic journeys and personal well being. Our services rely on an anti-racist and inclusive academic support model. If you have any questions, please contact us at [email protected]. Services and Programs We Offer Academic Coaching An Academic Coach is a trained junior, senior, or graduate student who is eager to help support you along your academic journey. Coaches meet on a weekly basis with students to provide holistic support and promote personal well-being in the context of academic and co-curricular success. If you are interested in one-on-one coaching, please check out the Academic Coaching section or follow these instructions for requesting a coach. Drop-In Hours Each semester, coaches are available for short-term, one on one support at designated Drop-in Hours. Students have the opportunity to attend Drop-in Hours to manage upcoming assignments, exams, and activities in the weeks leading up to midterms, finals, and other high-volume points of the semester. Schedule a drop-in hours meeting with an academic coach for Spring 2022 finals here! Workshops Academic Coaches host informative workshops throughout the semester to support students in stress management, planning, and study skills. These workshops are highly interactive, allowing students to ask questions and put study strategies into practice. View our Spring 2022 workshops schedule here! Newsletter Academic Support Services’ biweekly newsletter contains important dates, reminders, events, and study strategies to help students navigate the semester. We include relevant tips and resources that reinforce the support from our workshops and Google Classroom. Subscribe to the newsletter to receive at-a-glance updates from our office. Google Classroom Academic Support Services has created a variety of resources--recorded workshops, scheduling guides and templates, self-assessments, and more--available via Google Classroom. These tools are designed to support your learning and overall well-being. To access our Google Classroom, please sign up here. Instagram Academic Support Services recently launched an Instagram account! Follow us @brownacademicsupport to stay up to date on the latest events and access unique content from our academic coaching team, including study tips and resource highlights. Quick Links Schedule a 1:1 Drop-In Hours Meeting with an Academic Coach for Spring 2022 Finals! Request a Coach Subscribe to our Newsletter Sign Up for Google Classroom Instagram Download Schedules Weekly Schedule Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Contact Brown University Suite 301 1 Prospect Street (University Hall) Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3057 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat