Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Printing Services Printing Services right arrow down arrow Services Locations & Contacts Copier & Printer Rental Poster Templates Request a Quote Resources right arrow down arrow Print Order Desk User Guide Glossary of Printing Terms Home » About UC » Printing Services » Request a Quote Request a Quote The Printing Services online ordering system, Print Order Desk, streamlines the ordering process from start to finish. Customers can input orders any time of day without waiting for a response from the Printing Services staff. You can receive instant quotes, and make adjustments to your quote as needed. A staff member will produce your order, and it will be billed automatically. Submitting a Request for Quote First-Time Users If you haven't yet created an account with our Print Order Desk, follow the instructions on our home page to do so. Activation of your account should occur within one business day. If your need is urgent, submit the request and then call us to get your quote started. Clients with a Print Order Desk Account Open the Print Order Desk and enter the specs for your project. When you reach Step six (6), you will see an estimate at the top of the page based on what you entered. In addition, at the bottom of the Step 6 page Be sure to select your delivery option and account code. Click the blue Save as Quote button. You will receive a confirmation email with your quote. When you are ready to place your order, go to reports in the menu bar, and find your quote listed as Status, Quote. Printing Services 5121 Fishwick Dr., Suite 120 Cincinnati, OH 45216 513-556-5043 printing.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Printing Services 5121 Fishwick Dr., Suite 120 Cincinnati, OH 45216 513-556-5043 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top