Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources Impact Stories These stories demonstrate the significant impact that the Irving Institute helps facilitate through partnerships, training, collaboration and research. Topics Research Campus News Public Health Precision Medicine Education Impact Stories Personalized Medicine Medical School View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Dr. Rafael A. Lantigua and Dr. Olajide A. Williams will chair the new Community Advisory Council, along with Dr. Melissa Begg and Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr Source: Columbia Neighbors The Council will support and expand partnerships and programs with community leaders and organizations in Harlem and Upper Manhattan. Topic Campus News The Lancet Features Our Narratives of Discovery Series The Irving Institute is proud to announce the publication of our narrative medicine partnership with Dr. Rita Charon. Topic General Medicine Rethinking Routine Mammography Among Older Women: Tackling Issues of Health Care Overuse Through Interdisciplinary De-Implementation Science Many women 75 and older may not need routine mammograms, the decision to screen should be based on life expectancy, overall health, and personal preferences. Topic Cancer How to Navigate the Challenges of Commercialization The TRx resource at Columbia University's Irving Institute offers guidance and connections for researchers wanting commercialization support. Topic Research Latest News Columbia Vaccinates Hundreds at Community Pop-Up Vaccination Site in Harlem Source: CUIMC Newsroom May 10, 2021 The vaccination effort is being led by doctors from the Columbia Community Wellness Center, led by Irving Institute faculty Olajide Williams and Sidney Hankerson. Topic DEI CTSA Hub Innovations: Operating a Clinical Research Unit in the COVID-19 Era and Building a COVID-19 Biobank Source: clic April 1, 2021 Highlighting innovative responses from the Irving Institute Precision Medicine Resource (PMR) and Clinical Research Resource (CRR) to the COVID-19 pandemic. Topic Research Emergency Food Bank for Upper Manhattan January 13, 2021 The Irving Institute's Columbia Community Partnership for Health in partnership with the NYP Emergency Food Program - Delivering food in upper Manhattan to 890 families each month during pandemic Topic Nutrition Opioid Crisis Response Initiative Leads to New Publications May 20, 2020 The Opioid Crisis Response Initiative publishes in the Journal of Clinical and Translational Science Topic Campus News Irving Institute Partners in New Center to Combat Substance Use Disorders March 13, 2020 Launch of new Center for Healing of Opioid and Other Substance Use Disorders-Enhancing Intervention, Development and Implementation (CHOSEN) Topic Campus News Columbia Officials Present at White House Discussion on Opioid Overdose and Response in Higher Education November 21, 2019 Columbia Officials Present at White House Discussion on Opioid Overdose and Response in Higher Education Topic Campus News Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top