Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Mail Services Staff Directory Mailbox Rentals Services Mailing Info Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Mailbox Rentals All the information you need to know about renting a post office box from the UofM Services Our window services include stamps, money orders, C.O.D., certified & registered mail, and more! PreviousNext Take Action FedEx Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home Mail Services Welcome to Mail Services! SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS: Departmental Mail For all departments with mailboxes, USPS and Amazon mail is being delivered to those locations. If you receive a package that is too large to fit in your mailbox, you will be sent an email alert to pick it up at Mail Services. Be mindful that there is not enough mailboxes for all of the departments or space in the UC Campus Postal Station to hold departmental mail, therefore, departments without mailboxes need to pick up their mail from the Park Avenue Campus location. Mail is available for pick up Monday to Friday between 8am to 4pm. Outgoing Mail Please deliver to the Campus Postal Station at the University Center or to Mail Services at Park Avenue. Departmental Packages FedEx, UPS, DHL and Staples deliveries will go directly to the departments starting July 1, 2021. USPS deliveries will go back to normal delivery and pickup locations starting August 16, 2021. Student Mail Mail will be sorted daily and placed in student mailboxes outside the Campus Postal Station in the University Center. Locations and Hours Campus Postal Station (University Center): Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Mail Services (Park Avenue, 946 East Park Loop): Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Mail Services is responsible for the coordination of incoming and outgoing mail on campus, also provided is information to help you with your campus mailing needs. Departmental Information Mail Services: 946 East Park Loop (Park Avenue Campus) Memphis, TN 38152 901.678.2408 Campus Postal Station Mailing Address: 259 University Center Memphis, TN 38152 901.678.2380 Office Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Phone: 901.678.2408 | Fax: 901.678.4144 | E-mail: mailsvcs@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.