Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Apps Take off with the U.S. Air Force Academy on all of your devices to stay up to date with the latest news, events and more. Stay connected to the Long Blue Line anytime, anywhere. VOICE APPS Air Force Academy for Amazon Alexa Experience your Flash Briefing at a different altitude. To enable, click the link below, sign in and click Enable. To enable using your mobile device, open the Skills section of your Alexa app, search “Air Force Academy” and click Enable. Ask “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and hear a daily summary of athletic events, academic achievements, upcoming flyovers and historical facts. Click here to download the Air Force Academy app for Amazon Alexa devices. Air Force Academy for Google Home Welcome the U.S. Air Force Academy into your home. To enable, click the link below, sign in and click the Send to device button to select where you would like it played. To enable using your mobile device, open your Google Home app, click the settings icon, scroll down and click More Settings. Then click News, click Add Shows, scroll the navigation bar to the left and select National. Now click the star icon above Air Force Academy and click Done. Say “Hey Google, what’s the news from the Air Force Academy” and hear a daily summary of athletic events, academic achievements, upcoming flyovers and historical facts. Click here to download the Air Force Academy app for Google Home devices. MOBILE APPS USAFA Virtual Tour Have you ever imagined what it would be like to jump out of an airplane, stand on the field during a Falcon football game or walk through the iconic Cadet Chapel? Explore the U.S. Air Force Academy with an interactive, 360-degree virtual tour. Compatible with virtual reality (VR) headsets. Click here to download the USAFA Virtual Tour app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here to download the USAFA Virtual Tour app from Google Play for Android devices. Academy Radio Download the KAFA mobile app for instant access to our commercial-free radio station broadcasting live from the campus of the U.S. Air Force Academy. Submit a song request and check out the latest shows and podcasts on demand. Discover the best new Alternative Rock with exclusive coverage of Falcon sports, academic events, graduation and more! Click here to download the KAFA FM app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here to download the 97.7 KAFA app from Google Play for Android devices. Air Force Falcons Stream live games, check the latest scores or watch the best highlights from your favorite Air Force Falcon teams. Enhance your game-day experience with detailed schedules, seating and parking maps, directions, tailgate tracking and more! Click here to download the Air Force Falcons app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here to download the Air Force Falcons app from Google Play for Android devices. U.S. Air Force Academy Admissions Whether you’re a potential applicant or recent appointee, download the U. S. Air Force Academy app for the latest campus news, maps, and resources. Connect with local Liaison Officers to learn more about the institution and follow interactive checklist to ensure your transition to the Academy is seamless. Click here to download the U.S. Air Force Academy app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here to download the U.S. Air Force Academy app from Google Play for Android devices. USAFA Association of Graduates The Association of Graduates (AOG) app puts the power of the U.S. Air Force Academy’s alumni association on your phone. Read the latest issue of the alumni magazine Checkpoints, catch up on Academy news and find alumni events near you. Keep the class reunion going anytime from anywhere with a class group. Members can view their mobile AOG membership card, manage their account and access membership benefits with discounts on the go. Click here to download the Association of Graduates app from the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Click here to download the Association of Graduates app from Google Play for Android devices. STREAMING 97.7 The Academy Broadcasting live from the U.S. Air Force Academy, KAFA reaches over 80,000 listeners daily online and on-air in Colorado Springs, CO at 97.7 FM. Play today’s best new Alternative Rock commercial-free with exclusive coverage of Falcon sports, academic events, graduation and more! Click here to stream KAFA live on any device with internet access. ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.