Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 The Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion provides k-12 programming designed to engage students at a younger age and inspire them to achieve higher education. These efforts are key to the growth of our community, as students get an opportunity to participate in hands on activities and explore Texas Tech University's campus. Summer Camps Science: It's A Girl Thing Science: It's A Girl Thing is a residential camp for girls. The goals are to provide girls with strong role models and dispel myths and misconceptions about science and careers in science. Campers experience university life, hands-on classes and recreational activities. In the past we have offered classes ranging from Nano Energy to Animal Science. Since the purpose of SIGT is to allow girls to explore new fields in science we ask students to write a short biography and then we assign them to classes based on what we believe they would find interesting. Learn More>> Shake Hands With Your Future Shake Hands is a summer residential camp for academically talented students. Students experience university life and attend two classes. The camp includes field trips, and recreational activities. In the summer of 2013, Shake Hands celebrates 33 years of serving gifted and talented children and youth. Learn More>> GenTech Generation TECH will provide high school students with an interest in renewable energy an opportunity to consider renewable energy technologies as a future academic pursuit. The camp will allow students to explore the variety of fields within renewable energy and learn about the different technology and variables considered when designing a wind turbine. While at camp, students will be able to familiarize themselves with skills needed to thrive in a career involving renewable energy. Learn More>> TTU Chess Camp The Texas Tech Chess Program offers two summer day camps aiming to submerge students into a chess filled environment while having fun with peers. We offer lectures, lessons, tournaments, master exhibitions and other activities for kids learn about chess in a fun new way. Learn More>> Theatre / Technical Theatre Camp This fourteen-day summer camp is for 9th-12th grade students and teachers as a residential or non-residential camp. Classes will be offered by directors with experience in set design, makeup, costuming, lighting, and state design. Students will have the opportunity to learn the latest in theatre technology in the new Texas Tech innovative technical labs. Participants will sharpen their acting skills during auditions, classes, and rehearsals that culminate in a final performance directed by an award-winning director. Learn More>> Congress, Speech, and Debate Camp This seven-day summer camp is for 9th-12th grade students and teachers as a residential or non-residential camp. Participants will gain insight into prose and poetry, extemporaneous speaking, argumentation theory, and quality research skills to sharpen their UIL competition skills in Congress, Speech, and Debate. We highly encourage students to bring a computer. Learn More>> Journalism Camp This five-day summer camp is for 9th-12th grade students and teachers as a residential or non-residential camp. The Texas Tech University Journalism Department is offering a $500 scholarship to the top-scoring camper. Participants will improve their skills in Editorial, Feature, News, and Headline Writing. We highly encourage students to bring a computer and printer. Learn More>> Math and Science Camp This five-day summer camp is for 9th-12th grade students and teachers as a residential or non-residential camp. Participants will attend classes targeting success in UIL mathematics, number sense, science and calculator applications. Teachers may receive Gifted and Talented and Professional Development Credit from their high school. Learn More>> Student Programs Campus Visit Programs Schedule your Texas Tech University campus visit with the Office of College Connect! Learn More>> Bring TTU Programs Let us come speak to your students about college-life at Texas Tech University! Learn More>> T.A.M.E. The STEM Competitions are an important part of TAME (Texas Alliance of Minority Engineers) and the Office of College Connect multi-faceted approach to engaging and retaining students interested in STEM. Designed to reinforce success in math and science and to encourage the development of a peer and mentor network, the competitions also provide a unique opportunity for students from rural and/or economically disadvantaged areas, to visit a college or corporate campus and to interact with STEM role models. Learn More>> Back To School Fiesta The event will feature free lunch, and live entertainment for everyone to enjoy. Free school supplies and backpacks will be given to K-12 students in attendance based on a first-come, first-served basis, so don't miss out. Learn More>> Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 22, 2020 10:04 AM Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Back About the Division Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About About the Division Back Meet our Team Faculty & Staff College Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About College Students Back You Belong Here Contact Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Contact Back Contact Us Report A Bias Incident Divisional Units & Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Programs & Services Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back AVID First Year Experience Mentor Tech Military & Veterans Programs First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) TTU Chess Program McNair Scholars Program TRIO - Student Support Services University Interscholastic League Raider Education Department (RED) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) Women & Gender Studies Centers and Offices Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Black Cultural Center College Connect Dream Resource Center Office of Institutional Diversity Office of LGBTQIA Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back President's Council on Diversity & Equity RAISE Committee (formerly Hispanic Serving Institution) Alumni Community Heritage & Culture Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Heritage Months Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Heritage Month Fall Pride Week Indigenous People's Heritage Month International Education Week Black History Month Women’s HERstory Month Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi, & Arab Heritage Month MLK Celebration 2022 Diversity Week Culture Celebrations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back El Grito Juneteenth African American Lecture Series Latino Hispanic Lecture Series Graduation Celebrations and Convocations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Black Convocation Hispanic Convocation Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi & Arab (APIDA) Convocation Lavender Graduation MVP Stole & Recognition Ceremony Hispanic Serving Institution Week Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Serving Institution Week Resources Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Resources & Publications Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Camps Support – COVID-19 Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources Inclusive Election Support Resources DACA Resources Publications & Reports The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty Inclusive Language Terminology Funding Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Scholarships Multicultural Student Scholarships Awards Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Accolades and Recognition Spotlighting Award Winners Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet Diversity & Equity Awards Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back K-12 Academic Areas of Inclusion Raiders Rojos Family Support-COVID-19 News & Events Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Back News Events Calendar Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Events Calendar Back TTU Men of Color Initiative - "The Chat" Culture Fest 2020 Black Women in The Academy Discussion & Recognition Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet 2020 Spring Faculty Search Committee Workshop Women's History Month - Juju Chang Hispanic Serving Institution Week Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index