Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Menu Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Common Ground Home Alumni Communities Common Ground Common Ground Close Menu Home Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies Living Internationally After Graduation? UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Your relationship with the UW doesn’t end when you leave campus — once you’re a Husky, you’re a Husky for life. That’s one of the guiding principles of the UW Alumni Association (UWAA), an organization with a history almost as long and storied as the UW itself. We share pride in the University that encouraged us to be curious, to question the status quo and to respect a diversity of ideas. Lessons learned in the classroom remain with us as we move through the wider world — as critical and informed thinkers, engaged citizens and independent voices. It’s a politically charged world. But whether you vote red or blue, as UW alumni, together we represent Husky purple. It’s our common ground. Beginning in 2018, UWAA will alert alumni to UW resources, events and programming designed to challenge our thinking, encourage civic engagement and reflect statewide perspectives. Join us in finding common ground. Here, we will think critically, not comfortably. Perspectives Find recently published communications by members of the UW community designed to challenge your thinking. Stronger Together Racial Equity Online Resources Digital resources to inform and enlighten about today's most pressing issues. Link Information School Documents that Changed the World Podcast series from the UW Information School. Link #UWServes Together We Will Our efforts today will help us overcome — together — the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs 2020: The Course Lecture series designed to connect first-year students to top UW scholars. Link UW Impact Husky Caucus Directory Meet the state legislators who graduated from the UW. Link College of Arts and Sciences Voting by the Numbers UW course takes a deep dive into the complexities of voting. Link College of Arts and Sciences Mixing Politics & Friendship Professors of differing political views teach a course on political campaigns. Link Statewide Impact Learn what the UW is doing in your community. UW Magazine Fighting Misinformation With your help, the UW’s new Center for an Informed Public will confront “fake news” and manip Link Think critically UW Resources Stay informed about ongoing campus initiatives, resources and discussions. Link UW Impact A Closer Look at the Workforce Education Investment Act A panel discusses this important legislation. Link UW Impact Recap: Beyond Economic Mobility Six speakers explore how higher education could provide for BIPOC students beyond degrees and jobs. Link Digital Events No upcoming common ground events. Home Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies Living Internationally After Graduation? UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Huskies Vote Why does UWAA support voter registration? Recent surveys tell us UW alumni voters are likely to be c UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA