Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS SCIENCE & ENGINEERING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MSE 170 Fundamentals of Materials Science (4) NW Fundamental principles of structure and properties of materials utilized in the practice of engineering. Properties of materials as related to atomic, molecular, and crystalline structures. Metals, ceramics, multiphase systems, and polymeric materials. Relationships between structure and electrical, mechanical, thermal, and chemical properties. Prerequisite: Either CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 170 MSE 197 Case Studies in Materials Innovation (2) Materials science concepts, with emphasis on career opportunities in Materials Science and Engineering. Includes structural materials, electronic materials, biomaterials, and energy related materials. Development of scientific analysis and research proposal formulation skills. Prerequisite: either CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 197 MSE 298 Introduction to Modern Materials (1) Materials and advances in materials are at the core of a large number of significant technological advances. Seminar format highlights processing, properties, and uses of a broad class of materials for a variety of applications, each introduced by a faculty member from the department. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 298 MSE 310 Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering (3) Introduces the materials field to new department majors. Examples are drawn from ceramics, metals, polymers, electronic materials, and composites. Structure-properties-manufacturing-design relationships are emphasized. Materials selection design project. Introduction to research. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 310 MSE 311 Integrated Undergraduate Laboratory I (3) Laboratory experimentation and techniques used in evaluating the physical properties of metals, ceramics, and polymers. Use and instruction of analytical equipment, library resources for reference and literature searches, laboratory report writing, laboratory notebook recording, and data analysis. Prerequisite: MSE 170, which may be taken concurrently Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 311 MSE 312 Integrated Undergraduate Laboratory II (3) Materials processing-related laboratory experiments for producing advanced ceramic, metallic, polymeric and composite materials. Examination of particle-particle interactions and rheological behavior. Proper experimental documentation, formal laboratory reports, research project. Prerequisite: MSE 311. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 312 MSE 313 Integrated Undergraduate Laboratory III (3) Laboratory experiments for characterizing advanced ceramic, metallic, polymeric, semiconducting and composite materials. Examination of processess of mechanical, electrical, dielectric and optical measurements for the understanding of the particulars of property measurements. Materials engineering project, including project paper and oral presentation. Prerequisite: MSE 312. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 313 MSE 321 Thermodynamics and Phase Equilibrium (4) Phase equilibria in materials systems of one, two, and three components. Determination of phase diagrams. Quantitative applications of thermodynamics to systems of interest to materials scientists; detained review of thermodynamic laws and principles. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 321 MSE 322 Kinetics and Microstructural Evolution (4) Applications of thermodynamic and kinetic principles to the study of transport processes, transformations and reactions in engineering materials. Thermal activation and rates of processes, nucleation and growth, phase transformations, grain growth, sintering, among other processes. Prerequisite: MSE 321. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 322 MSE 331 Crystallography and Structure (3) Theory and practice of x-ray diffraction with applications to materials sitemaps. Principles of crystal symmetry, lattice systems, and stereographic projections. Bragg's law of diffraction, Laue conditions, diffraction by X-rays, single crystal and powder diffraction techniques and their applications to lattice, phase, strain, and texture analyses. Prerequisite: MSE 170. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 331 MSE 333 Materials Characterization (3) Principles and applications of analytical techniques, imaging, diffraction and spectroscopy for materials characterization including crystal structures, texture formation, phase analysis. Nano- and micro-structures of materials including defects and second phases, chemistry, bonding, compositions of materials. Demonstrations and lab experiments involving light scattering and diffraction techniques. Prerequisite: MSE 170; MSE 331; MSE 351. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 333 MSE 342 Materials Processing I (3) Provides students with the fundamentals and applications of metal and alloy processing techniques. Focuses on relationships between the processing fundamentals and practice, and between processing, microstructure, and properties. Ferrous and non-ferrous metal and alloy processing discussed. Prerequisite: MSE 170; MSE 321. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 342 MSE 351 Electronic Properties of Materials (3) Introduction to elementary solid-state concepts in materials, free electrons, and band theories. Principles to conduction in metals, insulators, semiconductors, and applications of semiconductors and devices. Prerequisite: MSE, 170, MSE 331. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 351 MSE 352 Functional Properties of Materials I (3) Introduction to thermal properties, electrical (ionic and polaron) conduction and optical properties, including origins of color, interaction of light wave with materials, lasers and optoelectronics. Focuses on the relations between physical properties and chemical composition, crystal structure, and microstructure. Prerequisite: MSE 351. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 352 MSE 362 Mechanical Behavior of Materials I (3) Influence of structure on the mechanical properties materials. Definition of different mechanical properties and experimental techniques to measure them. Elastic, viscoelastic, and plastic deformation. Introduction to fracture. Prerequisite: MSE 170. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 362 MSE 398 Leadership Seminar (1, max. 4) Weekly seminar with program alumni, or academic and government leaders presenting their workforce experience and insights with students. Includes varied topics related to leadership in the Materials Science and Engineering profession, such as career planning, management skills, interpersonal skills, entrepreneurship, ethics, and strategic decisions. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 398 MSE 399 Undergraduate Research Seminar (1) Introduces Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) majors to MSE faculty research activities and to the research projects available in MSE faculty laboratories. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 399 MSE 431 Failure Analysis and Durability of Materials (3) Treats the areas of failure analysis and durability in a wide range of materials applications. Reviews concepts in mechanical and environmental behavior of materials. Includes instruments available to engineers, both destructive and nondestructive, and case studies. Prerequisite: MSE 333; MSE 342; MSE 362; CEE 220 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 431 MSE 442 Materials Processing II (3) Develops a basic understanding of both engineering and science aspects of ceramic processing. Fundamentals of powder processing and characterization, green body formation, sintering, microstructural development and properties. Prerequisite: MSE 342. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 442 MSE 443 Process Principles in Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Materials Production (3) Ironmaking and steelmaking processes analyzed by methods of material and heat balances, computational thermodynamics, and process kinetics. Hydrometallurgical and electrometallurgical operations. Process optimization. Prerequisite: MSE 321. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 443 MSE 450 Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies (3) Introduces magnetism, magnetic materials, and related applications. Discusses intrinsic and phenomenological concepts of magnetism, ordered magnetics materials, structure-sensitive properties, magnetic phenomena, small particles, thin films, and applications (magnetic recording, permanent magnets, and spin-electronics. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 450 MSE 452 Functional Properties of Materials II (3) Functional materials including dielectrics, ferroelectrics, piezoelectrics, pyroelectrics, opto-electronics, and magnetic materials. Detailed discussion of fundamental relations between the chemical composition, crystal structure, microstructure, and physical properties. Description of general devices and applications of these functional materials. Prerequisite: MSE 352. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 452 MSE 462 Mechanical Behavior of Materials II (3) Structural influences on mechanical properties of materials and strengthening mechanisms. States of stress and strain, failure criteria, multiaxial loads. Dynamic loading, kinematic and isotropic hardening, plasticity; Flaws and material reliability, probabilistic failures, fracture and toughening mechanisms. Stress life fatigue, fatigue crack growth, viscoelasticity, viscoplasticity. Prerequisite: AA 210; CEE 220; MSE 362. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 462 MSE 463 Corrosion and Wear of Materials (3) Mechanisms of corrosion, thermodynamics, kinetics of corrosion. Passivity; Pourbaix diagrams; corrosion rate testing and measurements; forms of corrosion; effects of alloy and environmental variables; corrosion testing. Wear mechanisms: adhesive, abrasive, erosive. Fretting; surface roughness, wear testing. Coatings for corrosion and wear protection. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 463 MSE 466 Energy Materials, Devices, and Systems (3) Provides project based training for synthesis & characterization of new energy materials, for generation and storage, and the integration of renewables into energy systems using instruments at the Clean Energy Research Training Testbed. Topics include nanoparticle synthesis, solar cells, impedance analysis, characterization with solar simulator, coin cell battery assembly & testing, photochemistry, semiconductor w/ 2D materials, grid simulation Prerequisite: either PHYS 431, E E 421, MSE 311, MSE 312, MSE 313, MSE 351, MSE 352, CHEM E 456, CHEM 455, or CHEM 475, any of which may be taken concurrently. Offered: jointly with CHEM 466/CHEM E 440; A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 466 MSE 471 Introduction to Polymer Science and Engineering (3) Introduction of preparative methods of polymers; physical chemistry of polymeric molecules in solution, liquid and solid phase; thermodynamics of polymers; methods of characterization; mechanical properties; fabrication techniques; properties of commercial polymers. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 471 MSE 473 Noncrystalline State (3) Chemistry and physics of inorganic glass and amorphous semiconductors; structure, properties, and processing of vitreous materials. Prerequisite: MSE 342; MSE 351. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 473 MSE 475 Introduction to Composite Materials (3) Microstructural design and processing of composite materials; polymeric, metallic, and ceramic matrices; fibers and fiber-reinforced composites, thermal, mechanical, and electrical properties. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 475 MSE 476 Introduction to Optoelectronic Materials (3) Introduces the optical properties of dielectrics, semiconductors, and metals, and their applications in optoelectronic and photonic devices used in telecommunicatons, biomedical, and renewable energy industries. Prerequisite: CSE 142 or AMATH 301; Completion or concurrent enrollment in MSE 331; or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 476 MSE 477 Data Science and Materials Informatics (3) Introduction to data science approaches and their applications to materials science research. Basic skills in data mining, data processing, and machine learning for materials research topics using Python taught through case studies and other methodologies. Recommended: prior programming experience; some experience with Python helpful. Offered: jointly with CHEM 441; A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 477 MSE 478 Materials and Device Modeling (3) Implementation of computational and data science methods in materials science discovery and device modeling to gain physical and statistical insights of materials design. First-principles methods, multiscale simulations, and continuum modeling will be introduced within the framework of active machine learning with application of both computational and data science methods to materials study. Prerequisite: MSE 477/CHEM 441. Offered: jointly with CHEM 442. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 478 MSE 479 Big Data for Materials Science (3) Introduces the challenges and opportunities of the big data era for materials science and chemistry research. Students will gain basic knowledge and skills of data management using high performance computing, including automated data processing, batch processing, and cloud based computational tools that are suitable for materials science research. Prerequisite: MSE 477/CHEM 441. Offered: jointly with CHEM 443. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 479 MSE 481 Science and Technology of Nanostructures (3) Comprehensive introduction to the developing field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. Includes materials properties as a function of length-scale and dimensionality, applications in medicine/biology, electronics, magnetism, and electro-mechanical systems. Cooperative learning approaches involving student participation with team assignments, class activities, lectures, and laboratory visits. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 481 MSE 482 Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering (3) Provides fundamental understanding of biomaterials, implant applications, and their design consideration. Includes the fundamentals of synthesis, properties, and biocompatibility of metallic, ceramic, polymeric, composite, and biological materials and their applications for both hard and soft tissue replacement, and controlled drug delivery. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 482 MSE 483 Nanomedicine (3) Covers methods of synthesis and characterization of nano-sized materials and specific considerations for use in biological systems. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 483 MSE 484 Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers (3) NW Covers the chemistry, physics, materials science, and applications of semiconducting and metallic conjugated polymers. Examines the structural origins of the diverse electronic and optoelectronic properties of conjugated polymers. Exemplifies applications by light-emitting diodes, lasers, solar cells, thin film transistors, electrochromic devices, biosensors, and batteries. Prerequisite: either CHEM 453 or CHEM 455. Offered: jointly with CHEM 484; A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 484 MSE 486 Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology (3) Processing physics, chemistry, and technology, including evaporation, sputtering, epitaxial growth, diffusion, ion implantation, laser annealing, oxidation, chemical vapor deposition, photoresists. Design considerations for bipolar and MOS devices, materials and process characterization. Future trends. Prerequisite: EE 331 or MSE 351. Offered: jointly with E E 486; AW. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 486 MSE 488 Materials in Manufacturing (3) Primary manufacturing processes used for developing engineering materials components from metals, polymers, ceramics, and composites. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 488 MSE 489 Additive Manufacturing: Materials, Processing and Applications (3) Additive manufacturing processes for polymers, metals, ceramics and composite materials. Operating principles, key process parameters important to the part build process, and the importance of design. Microstructure of the build parts, dependence on processing conditions, the mechanical and physical properties, defects and relevant post-processing treatments for each material system. Hybrid processes, and adoption in various fields. Offered: jointly with M E 402; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 489 MSE 490 Composite Materials in Manufacturing (3) Manufacturing processes for composite materials, with a focus on thermosets. Composite manufacturing process from raw materials manufacturing to shipping final products. Controlling parameters leading to defects. Balance between design and quality system manufacturing controls, relationship of process development to engineering design, and procedures for materials and process changes. Identification and repair of manufacturing anomalies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 490 MSE 491 Design in Materials Engineering I (2) Integration of technical materials engineering concepts with professional components related to materials engineering. Reviews materials design, teamwork, leadership, engineering economics, and ethics. Beginning of a two-quarter, team design project on materials engineering. Prerequisite: MSE 313 and MSE 352. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 491 MSE 492 Design in Materials Engineering II (3) Integration of technical materials engineering concepts with professional components related to materials engineering. Reviews process design, manufacturability, and quality control. Completes the two-quarter team design project on materials engineering. Prerequisite: MSE 491. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 492 MSE 497 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 12) Research in materials under faculty supervision other than the MSE senior project. Cannot be used toward the technical elective requirements in the MSE major. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 497 MSE 498 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Special topics in materials science and engineering offered as a course with lectures, conferences, or laboratory. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 498 MSE 499 Senior Project (*-, max. 5) Materials science and engineering field or laboratory investigations in group or individual setting. Final written report and oral presentation required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 499 MSE 501 Nanostructures and Nanomaterials (3) Fundamentals relevant to the synthesis, properties and applications of nanostructures and nanomaterials. Experimental approaches in the fabrication and processing of nanostructures and nanomaterials. Characterization of nanostructures and nanomaterials. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 501 MSE 502 Sol-Gel Processing (3) Fundamentals of colloid science and the physics and chemistry of the sol-gel process. Emphasizes the synthesis and applications of various materials, such as multi-component oxides, nano-composites, meso- and microporous materials, organic/inorganic hybrids, and biomaterials that have important applications in both leading technologies and modern industries. Offered: A, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 502 MSE 503 Thermodynamics in Materials Science (3) Fundamentals of thermodynamics relevant to materials science and engineering. Application of the principles of thermodynamics and criteria for equilibrium used to define conditions of equilibrium for all classes of multiphase and multicomponent materials. Emphasis on generating maps of equilibrium states including phase diagrams and predominance diagrams. Effects of interfaces on equilibrium, crucial in materials processes and applications. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 503 MSE 504 Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems (4) Theoretical and practical aspects in design, analysis, and fabrication of MEMS devices. Fabrication processes, including bulk and surface micromachining. MEMS design and layout. MEMS CAD tools. Mechanical and electrical design. Applications such as micro sensors and actuators, or chemical and thermal transducers, recent advances. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for EE P 504. Offered: jointly with E E 504/M E 504. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 504 MSE 505 Modeling of MEMS (4) Microelectro mechanical systems (MEMS) including lumped modeling, conjugate power variables, electrostatic and magnetic actuators, linear transducers, linear system dynamics, design optimization, and thermal analysis. Numerical modeling topics include electro (quasi) static, mechanical, electro mechanical, magneto (quasi) static, and fluidic phenomena; parametric analysis, visualization of multi-dimensional solutions; and verification of results. Offered: jointly with E E 503. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 505 MSE 510 Bonding, Crystallography, and Symmetry-Related Properties of Materials (3) Rigorous introduction to the fundamentals of bonding, symmetry, crystallography, and related properties. Quantum mechanical foundation of cohesion and properties of solids. Geometric approach to understanding symmetry elements in 2-D and 3-D, including point groups, space groups, stereographic projections, and bravais lattices. Tensor properties of crystals related to crystallography and symmetry. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 510 MSE 512 Experimental Transmission Electron Microscopy (3) Fundamentals of electron optics as applied to microscopy; applications of contrast theories and electron diffraction with emphasis on defects and multiphase structures in crystalline solids. Prerequisite: MSE 510. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 512 MSE 513 Transmission Electron Microscopy Laboratory (2) One four-hour laboratory and one two-hour discussion/demonstration per week; metallic, ceramic, electronic biological sample preparation techniques; diffraction, imaging, and spectroscopy techniques in electron microscopy. Prerequisite: MSE 512 which may be taken concurrently. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 513 MSE 515 Advanced Transmission Electron Microscopy (3) Principles of image formation in crystalline and amorphous materials at the atomic resolution level; high spatial resolution electron diffraction with emphasis on convergent beam electron diffraction; quantitative elemental compositional and chemical analysis with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and electron energy loss spectroscopy; high voltage electron microscopy. Prerequisite: MSE 512 and MSE 513. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 515 MSE 520 Seminar (1, max. 6) Review of research problems in recent literature. Registration required for all graduate students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 520 MSE 524 Applied Rate Phenomena (3) Introduction to rate theory and transport processes. The principal thrust is on applications in ceramics and metallurgy. Prerequisite: basic course in transport phenomena or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 524 MSE 525 Kinetics and Phase Transformations (3) Thermodynamic basis for kinetic processes, including diffusion and phase transformation kinetics. Diffusion problems and solution methodologies, statistical treatment of diffusion, solid-liquid and solid-solid transformations, ordering transitions. Special topics related to grain growth, sintering, martensitic transformations. Prerequisite: MSE 322 and MSE 421 or equivalent. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 525 MSE 529 Semiconductor Optoelectronics (4) Covers optical processes in semiconductors; optical waveguide theory; junction theory; LEDs; lasers photodetectors; photovoltaics; and optical modulators and switches. Prerequisite: E E 485. Offered: jointly with E E 529. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 529 MSE 539 Renewable Energy I (4) Devin MacKenzie Covers the underlying physics, manufacturing and performance of current and emerging photovoltaic solar cell and module technologies in a comparative approach. The course will also present practical aspects of the solar resource, module integration, systems and energy production. Recommended: Undergraduate physics and chemistry at the engineering or science level. Students without some previous solid state physics, electronic materials, or semiconductor device coursework may require extra reading. Offered: jointly with M E 539; W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 539 MSE 541 Defects in Materials (3) Detailed study of the general properties and effects of point, line, and planar defects in crystalline solids. Prerequisite: MSE 331 or equivalent. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 541 MSE 542 Data Science and Materials Informatics (3) Introduction to data science approaches and their applications to materials science research. Basic skills in data mining, data processing, and machine learning for materials research topics using Python taught through case studies and other methodologies. Recommended: prior programming experience; and some experience with Python helpful. Offered: jointly with CHEM 541; A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 542 MSE 543 Materials and Device Modeling (3) Implementation of computational and data science methods in materials science discovery and device modeling to gain physical and statistical insights of materials design. First-principles methods, multiscale simulations, and continuum modeling will be introduced within the framework of active machine learning with application of both computational and data science methods to materials study. Prerequisite: either MSE 477/CHEM 441, MSE 542/CHEM 541, CHEM E 545/CHEM 545/MSE 545, or CHEM E 546/CHEM 546/MSE 546 (or equivalents). Offered: jointly with CHEM 542. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 543 MSE 544 Big Data for Materials Science (3) Introduces the challenges and opportunities of the big data era for materials science and chemistry research. Students will gain basic knowledge and skills of data management using high performance computing, including automated data processing, batch processing, and cloud based computational tools that are suitable for materials science research. Prerequisite: either MSE 477/CHEM 441, MSE 542/CHEM 541, or both CHEM E 545/MSE 545/CHEM 545 and CHEM E 546/MSE 546/CHEM 546. Offered: jointly with CHEM 543; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 544 MSE 545 Data Science Methods for Clean Energy Research (3) Jim Pfaendtner Survey of modern data science methods taught in the context of materials for clean energy (e.g., batteries and solar energy). Covers data visualization, statistics, machine learning and data management. Instruction, homework and term project are implemented using Python. Offered: jointly with CHEM 545/CHEM E 545; W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 545 MSE 546 Software Engineering for Molecular Data Scientists (3) Jim Pfaendtner Introduces basic principles of scientific software development in the Python in the context of Molecular Data Science. The course covers command line tools, Python from the perspective of molecular data science methods, software development and collaboration principles, e.g. version control. Grades are based on homework and group projects. Offered: jointly with CHEM 546/CHEM E 546; W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 546 MSE 547 Data Science Capstone Project (3) David A. C. Beck Involves teams of graduate students from molecular, materials or clean energy focused disciplines working on Data Science oriented research and engineering projects solicited from internal and external partners. Employ modern team-based software engineering principles and cutting edge Data Science methods, including but not limited to machine learning, statistics, visualization and data management. Prerequisite: CHEM E 545 and CHEM E 546; recommended: prior exposure to data science fundamentals and software development. Offered: jointly with CHEM 547/CHEM E 547; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 547 MSE 550 Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies (3) Introduce magnetism, magnetic materials, and related applications. Discusses intrinsic and phenomenological concepts of magnetism, ordered magnetic materials, magnetic phenomena, small particles, thin films, and applications (magnetic recording, permanent magnets, and spin-electronic). Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 550 MSE 555 Biomimetics: Bioinspired Design and Processing of Materials (4) How biological organisms produce materials with controlled structure, chemistry, and hierarchy to attain physical properties far superior to traditional engineering materials. Fundamental biological building materials, their synthesis, and their self-assembly with emphasis on examples of soft and hard tissues. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 555 MSE 560 Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers (3) Physical and material concepts determining properties of organic electronic and photonic materials. Discusses electronic structure, physico-chemical characterization, and device application. Includes introduction of electronic band structure of polymers, electrically conducting polymers; organic nonlinear optical electroluminescent materials; polymer optical fibers; tow-photon absorption materials for 3-D microfabrication. Offered: jointly with CHEM 564/MOLENG 530; W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 560 MSE 561 Introduction to Quantum Information Science and Engineering for Chemists and Materials Scientists (3) Peter J. Pauzauskie, Brandi Cossairt Mathematical and quantum mechanical foundations, qubits, coherence, entanglement, applications, and materials systems. Prerequisite: CHEM 455 (or equivalent), or permission of instructor ; recommended: a course in physical and/or quantum chemistry. Offered: jointly with CHEM 561; A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 561 MSE 562 Introduction to Electronic Composites (3) Taya Fundamentals of microstructure-macro-property relation of electronic composites. This course covers applications (computers, laser packages, medical devices, MEMS, avionics), functions (mechanical, thermal, electromagnetic, and optical), microstructure-macro-property relations, processing issues, and modeling of electronic composites. Offered: jointly with M E 562; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 562 MSE 563 Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing (3) Manufacturing and processing techniques of metal-, polymer-, and ceramic-matrix composites; design considerations related to manufacturing techniques; non-destructive testing of composite structures. Fiber-matrix interfacial features and interactions. Interfacial thermodynamics applied to selection of fiber-matrix combinations. Prerequisite: MSE 475 or M E 450 or equivalent by permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with M E 563; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 563 MSE 565 Electron Theory of Materials (3) Solid-state concepts of materials. Atomic bonding, statistical mechanics, Brillouin zone theory. Applications to conduction, optical, and magnetic properties of metals, semiconductors, and insulators. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 565 MSE 566 Energy Materials, Devices, and Systems (3) Provides project based training for synthesis & characterization of new energy materials, for generation and storage, and the integration of renewables into energy systems using instruments at the Clean Energy Research Training Testbed. Topics include nanoparticle synthesis, solar cells, impedance analysis, characterization with solar simulator, coin cell battery assembly & testing, photochemistry, semiconductor w/ 2D materials, grid simulation Offered: jointly with CHEM 566/CHEM E 540; A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 566 MSE 568 Active and Sensing Materials (3) Taya Fundamental knowledge of the nano-structure property relations of active and sensing materials, and their devices. Examples of the active and sensing materials include: shape memory alloys (SMAs), ferromagnetic SMAs, ferroelectric, pyroelectric and piezoelectric materials, thermoelectrics, electroactive and conducting polymers, photoactive polymers, photovoltaics, and electrochromic materials. Offered: jointly with M E 568; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 568 MSE 570 Graduate Tutorial in Materials Science and Engineering I (2) Physical and chemical structures of materials and their relationship to properties. Understanding and applying the following material science concepts: atomic bonding, crystallography, defects and diffusion, thermodynamics, phase diagrams, and phase transformations. Recommended: introductory undergraduate course in materials science. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 570 MSE 571 Graduate Tutorial in Materials Science and Engineering II (2) Mechanical, electrical, dielectric, optical, and thermal properties of materials; applying these concepts. Prerequisite: MSE 570. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 571 MSE 576 Introduction to Optoelectronic Materials (3) Introduces the optical properties of dielectrics, semiconductors, and metals, and their applications in optoelectronic and photonic devices used in telecommunicatons, biomedical, and renewable energy industries. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 576 MSE 582 Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering (3) Provides fundamental understanding of biomaterials, implant applications, and their design consideration. Includes the fundamentals of synthesis, properties, and biocompatibility of metallic, ceramic, polymeric, composite, and biological materials and their applications for both hard and soft tissue replacement, and controlled drug delivery. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 582 MSE 583 Nanomedicine (3) Covers methods of synthesis and characterization of nano-sized materials and specific considerations for use in biological systems. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 583 MSE 588 Materials in Manufacturing (3) Primary manufacturing processes used for developing engineering materials components from metals, polymers, ceramics, and composites. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 588 MSE 589 Additive Manufacturing: Materials, Processing and Applications (3) Additive manufacturing processes for polymers, metals, ceramics and composite materials. Operating principles, key process parameters important to the part build process, and the importance of design. Microstructure of the build parts, dependence on processing conditions, the mechanical and physical properties, defects and relevant post-processing treatments for each material system. Hybrid processes, and adoption in various fields. Offered: jointly with M E 506; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 589 MSE 590 Composite Materials in Manufacturing (3) Manufacturing processes for composite materials, with a focus on thermosets. Composite manufacturing process from raw materials manufacturing to shipping final products. Controlling parameters leading to defects. Balance between design and quality system manufacturing controls, relationship of process development to engineering design, and procedures for materials and process changes. Identification and repair of manufacturing anomalies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 590 MSE 598 Engineering Materials Problems (4) Involves a concentrated project which may include the design of a system or process, or analysis of a set of data related to the materials engineering area. Requires a professional quality report and an oral presentation of the results. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 598 MSE 599 Special Topics in Materials Science (1-5, max. 15) Studies of special advanced topics in materials science. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 599 MSE 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 600 MSE 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 700 MSE 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MSE 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022