Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE ASIAN LANGUAGES & LITERATURE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ASIAN 200 Introduction to Asian Languages and Literature (5) VLPA Introduces approaches to the study of Asian languages and literature. Topics include theoretical, applied, historical, and comparative linguistics; literary and cultural study; philosophy; languages, and writing systems of Asia; and indigenous Asian approaches to the study of language and literature. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 200 ASIAN 201 Literature and Culture of China: Ancient and Classical (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to ancient and classical Chinese literature in its cultural context. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 201 ASIAN 202 Literature and Culture of Japan: Traditional Japan (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to traditional Japanese literature in its cultural context. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 202 ASIAN 203 Literature and Culture of Ancient and Classical India (5) VLPA/I&S Heidi R Pauwels Introduction to ancient and classical Indian literature in its cultural context. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 203 ASIAN 204 Literature and Culture of China from Tradition to Modernity (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to modern Chinese literature in its cultural context. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 204 ASIAN 205 Literature and Culture of Japan from Tradition to Modernity (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to Japanese literature of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in its cultural context. May also include some Korean literature. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 205 ASIAN 206 Literature and Culture of South Asia from Tradition to Modernity (5) VLPA/I&S Heidi R Pauwels Introduction to medieval and modern South Asian literature in its cultural context. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 206 ASIAN 207 Special Topics in Literature and Culture of Asia (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S Introduction to the literature of one or more Asian traditions considered in its cultural context. Content varies depending on the specialization and interest of instructor. Texts in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 207 ASIAN 210 Asian War Epics: Working through Many Mahabharatas (5) VLPA/I&S Heidi R Pauwels Culturally informed aesthetic analysis, comparisons of different tellings of parallel scenes (both South and Southeast Asian). Includes classical and contemporary retellings, and representation in socio-political discourse, visual arts, musical dance, drama, and in popular media such as film and television. In English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 210 ASIAN 211 Languages and Cultures of China (5) VLPA/I&S Provides a general survey of the languages and language-families in China, emphasizing the rich linguistic diversity found there today. Languages compared with English, from linguistic and cultural perspectives, to demonstrate not only characteristics but also mutual dependence throughout their development. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 211 ASIAN 223 Buddhist Literature (5) VLPA/I&S Introduction to Buddhist literature in India, China, and Japan including biographies, poetry, narratives, ritual manuals, doctrinal treatises, and historical accounts. Attention also given to issues of textual composition, transmission, authorship, audience, context, and function. Taught in English. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 223 ASIAN 225 Indian Philosophical Literature (5) VLPA/I&S Prem Pahlajrai Introduction to various topics pertaining to the vast philosophical literature of India, such as its origins and contexts, dharma; karma and free will; logic and argument. A variety of systems from Hindu, Buddhist, Jain, theistic, and non-theistic schools are covered. Taught in English. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 225 ASIAN 263 Great Works of Asian Literature (5) VLPA Selected major works of Asian literature. Taught on a rotational basis with the literary traditions of China, Japan, India covered in successive years. Content varies depending on specialization and interest of instructor. Primary emphasis on literary values of works and their tradition; attention also given to historical and social contexts and the thought and value systems of the culture involved. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 263 ASIAN 301 Songs of the Saints of India (5) VLPA/I&S India's wisdom through popular songs of its saints of the devotional tradition. Texts as significant in contemporary religion and politics, whether protesting existing hierarchies of caste and gender, or confirming the status quo. Readings in English translation. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 301 ASIAN 401 Introduction to Asian Linguistics (5) VLPA Zev Handel, Kaoru Ohta Linguistic analysis, with emphasis on languages of East, Southeast, South, and Central Asia. Includes phonetics, phonemics, morphology, syntax, historical reconstruction, linguistic typology, comparative grammar. Survey of major languages and language families of Asia. Diverse Asian languages as subjects of linguistic analysis. Prior knowledge of linguistics not required. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 401 ASIAN 404 Writing Systems (5) VLPA William G. Boltz, Zev Handel Comprehensive theoretical and historical overview of written language worldwide. Includes origins and early development of writing in the Near East, Asia, and the Americas; relationships between spoken and written languages; types and characteristic of writing systems (logographics, syllabic, and alphabetic); and methods used for decipherment of ancient languages. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 404 ASIAN 405 Advanced Problems in Asian Linguistics (3) VLPA Advanced problems in the analysis of the languages of East, Southeast, South, and Central Asia. Includes phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicography, historical reconstruction, linguistic typology, and comparative grammar. Prerequisite: ASIAN 401. Instructors: Handel, K. Ohta, Shapiro View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 405 ASIAN 491 Internship in Teaching Asian Languages and Cultures (1-2, max. 5) Teaching internship in a language course (undergrad or grad students are eligible) or a disciplinary course (graduate students only), as arranged with the supervising instructor. Faculty permission required. 3 hr/week internship earns 1 credit, 6 hr/week internship earns 2 credits. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 491 ASIAN 494 Ramayana in Comparative Perspective (5) VLPA, DIV Pauwels Examines and compares different versions (mainly South Asian) of the Ramayana, including the widely popular television version. Focuses on some famous and controversial passages, with special attention to gender issues. Incorporates background readings from the most recent research. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 461. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 494 ASIAN 498 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) VLPA Offered occasionally by permanent or visiting faculty members. Topics vary. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 498 ASIAN 503 Seminar in Asian Linguistics (1-5, max. 15) Topics vary. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Handel, A. Ohta, K. Ohta Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 503 ASIAN 510 Teaching Asian Languages (5) A. OHTA Methodology for teaching modern foreign languages, focusing on languages taught by teaching assistants in the department. Eclectic and practical overview for current and potential TAs. Consideration of broader issues involved in language program management. Strong hands-on component, including observation, teaching, materials development, and portfolio development for job seekers. Prerequisite: proficiency in an Asian language Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 510 ASIAN 541 Seminar in Asian Textual and Digital Cultures (5) Topics may differ with each offering but will include aspects of textual and digital production in Asian cultures. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 541 ASIAN 580 Seminar in Hinduism Studies (5) Pauwels Introduction to the academic study of Hinduism for graduate students. Examines major problems currently addressed in the academic study of Hinduism and the methods used. Provides a historical perspective on past scholarship. Offered: jointly with RELIG 580. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 580 ASIAN 585 Seminar in Buddhism (2/5) Systems and history of Buddhist thought. Original and secondary sources are used. Combines the methods of specialists in south, central, and east Asian Buddhism with those of historians of religion and philosophy. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Cox Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 585 ASIAN 590 Seminar in Translation Studies (5, max. 15) H. CHO Seminar study of topics in translation studies and Asian literatures/cultures. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 590 ASIAN 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 600 ASIAN 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 700 ASIAN 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ASIAN 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022