Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Health Services Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Health Services admitted students home Health Services is one of five departments encompassed by Health & Wellness, including BEMS, BWell, CAPS, and SAS. Brown University Health Services provides wellness services and medical care to Brown students. Students may make appointments with staff physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, nutritionists and nurses; same day appointments are available if students call ahead. Students should contact Health Services for advice on what to do if they are ill or have medical questions. Brown University Health Services 13 Brown Street (401) 863-4111 for emergency care (401) 863-3953 for appointments (401) 863-1330 for medical advice (401) 863-7882 for pharmacy [email protected] Frequently Asked Questions Call 401-863-3953 to make an appointment for health services concerns, 401-863-7882 to reach the pharmacy, and 401-863-3558 to make an appointment for individual nutrition counseling. Questions can be emailed to [email protected] and medical advice is available 24/7 by calling 401-863-1330. Health Services’ current hours can be found on the department website. Medications The Health Services pharmacy carries prescription medications and over-the-counter products. To fill a prescription, the pharmacy requires a written or telephone prescription from a student’s health care provider. Health Services can also transfer refills from the pharmacy that originally filled the prescription. Students may also be seen by a provider at Health Services to obtain a prescription. The pharmacy can be contacted by phone at 401-863-7882. The pharmacy has an online store for over the counter (OTC) items. Purchases are available for pickup at the pharmacy or can be delivered to the student's campus box. Payment is by credit or debit card. Required Health-Related Documentation All incoming students are required to complete medical forms before arriving on-campus. Instructions for completing these forms and uploading required documents are in the New Student Forms section on the Health Services website. For continuity of care, students with chronic, serious medical conditions should forward their medical records to Health Services. Health Fee Every Brown student is charged a Health Fee each semester. The fee allows students to use Health Services, regardless of health insurance coverage. This is a separate charge from the Brown student health insurance fee that you may elect to waive if you have a comparable health insurance plan. This Health Fee covers most general medical care at Health Services, including primary care by provider staff, use of Brown University Emergency Medical Services, nursing services and 24/7 medical advice, campus-wide health promotion, Brown University Counseling & Psychological Services, and Health Services’ various public health functions. Health Insurance All Brown students must have separate health insurance to cover services not included in the Health Fee (such as lab, x-ray, pharmacy and hospital expenses). Students are automatically enrolled in the Brown Student Health Insurance Plan, specifically designed to complement the services provided by the Health and Wellness departments. However, students may waive enrollment in the Student Health Insurance Plan if they are covered by a comparable health insurance plan. When evaluating your plan, you must verify that your plan provides adequate coverage that is accessible in the Providence area. Students must complete an online waiver form by the deadline listed on the Office of Insurance and Purchasing Services website. International Students – It is particularly important that you verify that your insurance plan provides adequate coverage that is accessible in the Providence area before waiving the Student Health Insurance. For questions about health insurance, please contact the Office of Insurance and Purchasing Services website or by calling 401-863-1703. Confidentiality Health Services records are confidential and are not released to anyone, including parents, legal guardians and faculty, without written authorization from the student. There are a few exceptions when release of specific information without a student’s expressed consent is necessary in emergencies or is required by law. Additional information can be found on the Health Services website. Additional Health Resources (covered under the Health Fee) Brown EMS (BEMS) is a blended volunteer/paid service licensed by the State of RI to provide all levels of pre-hospital care to the Brown community. BEMS provides Basic and Advanced Life Support (BLS and ALS) care and transport 24 hours a day year round except during brief interruptions for periodic maintenance. BWell Health Promotion offers a wide variety of educational services for topics such as alcohol /drug use, nutrition/eating concerns, men/women’s health, and sexual health, and maintains an extensive resource center and website on a variety of topics. Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) takes a goal-focused and collaborative approach to mental health services to assist students in improving their lives. CAPS’ diverse staff offers a range of psychological treatment and prevention services in an inclusive, compassionate, affirming and socially just environment. CAPS is available 24/7 for urgent needs. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) coordinates and facilitates services for all students with medical, physical, psychological, and learning disabilities. Students who may need accommodations or services due to a disability or medical condition should contact SAS to discuss their needs and the registration process. Please also see Health Services Frequently Asked Questions. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants