Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Lyle Alumni SMU Lyle Home Alumni Lyle Alumni Fortune 100 companies with which we have met have commented: “Whatever you are doing in leadership and soft skills development, keep doing it. We can put your students in front of the customer faster than those from any other school in the country.” Graduates of the Lyle School of Engineering are bold, curious and creative individuals who are driven to think big and do good. The impact of our alumni is felt in the organizations where they are employed, throughout the sectors in which they work, and in the communities where they live. Your SMU Lyle experience doesn't end on graduation day. Stay connected with the Lyle School of Engineering through the links and resources below that we have provided to all Lyle Alumni. To stay up-to-date on all Lyle research, news and events, join our 'Latest at Lyle' alumni email by clicking the button below and submitting the form. Latest at Lyle Alumni Email Lifelong Learning Alumni Program The Lifelong Learning Alumni Program empowers you to continue your educational journey with a curated catalog of 114 courses and over 5,000 hours of video content from the Lyle School of Engineering Distance Education program. More Info Support Lyle When you make a gift to Lyle, you help provide students with exceptional learning experiences. Your commitment to Lyle helps support our top priorities and student scholarships; attract and retain outstanding professors and researchers; and enhance academic programs, facilities, and resources. Giving Initiatives Industry Mentor Program Do you have career experience and wisdom to share with a junior or senior engineering student? The Hart Center Industry Mentor Program is looking for experienced engineering or business professionals who can provide one-on-one guidance to students in their college-to-career transition. Become a Mentor Recruiting at Lyle The Hart Center provides multiple opportunities for employers to meet and work with our engineering and computer science students. The Hart Center is excited to engage with recruiters and employers to provide our students with internship and job opportunities, as well as providing them with professional development experiences. More Info Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard The Cox/Lyle Red Zone is the premier pre-game tailgate option available on the famed SMU Boulevard. This high-end tailgate experience was built through a partnership with the Cox School of Business and the Lyle School of Engineering. More Info School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus