Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Anthropology Ph.D. school Graduate School department Anthropology Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown's graduate Anthropology program encourages a diversity of doctoral research agendas in sociocultural anthropology, anthropological archaeology and linguistic anthropology. Brown has offered graduate degrees in Anthropology since the 1960s. Today, graduates are trained for professional careers in sociocultural anthropology, archaeology and linguistic anthropology, and employed in a range of teaching, research and museum positions — as well as in nonacademic fields where anthropological expertise is required. Faculty have wide-ranging theoretical and methodological research interests, among them anthropological demography, globalization, medical anthropology, development studies, militarization, urban civilization, ethnicity, gender, religion, politics, language and culture, ancient writing, historical anthropology, historical and maritime archaeology, and museum studies. They have conducted research throughout the world — in North, Central, and South America, the Arctic, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Australia. Additional Resources The Working Group in Anthropology and Population complements Brown's Population Studies and Training Center. The department has strong ties to the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, especially through its research program in politics, culture, and identity — and to the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World. The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology provides important research collections for archaeology and world ethnography. The John Carter Brown Library is an unparalleled source for documents pertaining to the Americas. The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America and several–area studies programs encourage interdisciplinary exchange on interethnic relations. The John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage provides opportunities for students and faculty interested in public humanities. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (in area of intended specialization) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements A.M. in anthropology or its equivalent, foreign language (based on committee requirement), two semesters of teaching, preliminary examinations, research proposal, dissertation based on independent field research Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Jessaca Leinaweaver jessaca_leinaweaver@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Dan Smith daniel_j_smith@brown.edu Director of Graduate Admissions Patricia Rubertone patricia_rubertone@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Anthropology Mailing Address Brown University Box 1921 matilde_andrade@brown.edu 401-863-3251 Visit the Department of Anthropology Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Anthropology Open details for Anthropology Bookmark this Page