Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Our Mission Dean's Office ECS Strategic Plan Enrollment & Degrees Awarded Student Sucess Center (SSC) Women in Computer Science and Engineering (WiCSE) Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative (EIR) Engineering Ambassadors Network (EAN) Summer Program for High School Students Newsletter Alumni Give Back ECS Catalog Description Our Mission Our mission is simple. We want to educate engineers and computer scientists who will graduate with state-of-the art knowledge in their chosen field and are ready to embark on careers in industry and government, or proceed to acquire advanced degrees in their own or related fields. More and more of our graduates are also interested in being entrepreneurs, thanks to the success of so many young people on the West Coast who have become successful in creating wealth via technology. At Cal State Fullerton's College of Engineering and Computer Science, you will learn, invent and explore possibilities. And when you graduate, you're going to be ready to take on a challenging and rewarding career. You will be ready to change the world. This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.