Center for Student Empowerment - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Center for Student Empowerment Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Center for Student Empowerment Home About Us Mission Welcome Letter Staff Profiles CSE Student Leaders CSE Ambassador Program History Partners Contact Information Join CSE Membership Requirements Membership Benefits Events and Programs Pillar Programs Presentations and Workshops Event Calendar Scholarships Empowerment Award Encouragement Award Diamond Family Scholars Program Travel Award News Resources Academic Resources Financial Resources Career Resources Civic Leadership Personal Resources Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ DACA: What You Need to Know DACA Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Giving UH Home Center for Student Empowerment Page contents: Upcoming Events Scholarships Pillar Programs Join CSE Meet Our Staff Contact Us WE ENCOURAGE, ENLIGHTEN, EMPOWER, AND ENGAGE. The Center for Student Empowerment (CSE) provides opportunities for the university's diverse student population by preventing minor obstacles from becoming major setbacks to degree achievement. The services that CSE offers have been strategically chosen to develop CSE students into well-trained career professionals. Scholarships Pillar Programs Join CSE The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Important Annoucement: Our New Name We have big news today! We are changing our name to the Center for Student Empowerment. Let us explain why we're making this important change. Upcoming Events Scholarships Looking for ways to fund your education? If you can demonstrate academic excellence and leadership, you may qualify for a UH scholarship at the University of Houston. Diamond Family Scholars Program This scholarship was created to improve the success rates for students who were previously in the foster care system by providing funds to cover room and board, as well as books and other supplies. CSE Sysco Meal Plan Scholarship This grant opportunity is designed to support our CSE members who may be affected by food insecurity while attending the University of Houston. It has been made possible from a generous partnership with Sysco and the Center for Student Empowerment. Empowerment Award This award is designed to improve the retention rate of the University of Houston and increase the number of successful UH graduates by alleviating some of the financial burdens of college and enable active CSE students to concentrate on their studies. Encouragement Award This award is designed to improve the retention rate of the University of Houston and increase the number of successful UH graduates by acknowledging the academic achievement of active CSE students that have persevered in their academic studies while developing as a leader. Every day I step into the office I know that the Center for Student Empowerment family is going to push me to become a better student, leader, and friend; I am grateful for having them be part of my college experience. Jose Abraham Garcia I am grateful for the opportunity to help our student members at the Center for Student Empowerment. Seeing their smile after consulting with us shows that we are a real help, the help they have been looking for. Mrs. Latise Williams I’m thankful for all of the character-building trials and tribulations that come with being a first-generation college student. It prepares me that much more for the real journey that is called life. Ty-Rinetta Sanders-Washington I am thankful for everyone in my life who has helped me in my success. Even if along the way I may face struggles I know CSE will be there to help. Thank you. Yadira Banuelos Im thankful for the opportunity to make a difference within the UH community as a CSE Ambassador. Everytime I come into the office I feel like I am a better leader than before, thank you. Shawn Calvin Pillar Programs More Pillar Programs The Center for Student Empowerment offers a variety of programs to meet the needs of its diverse members. Alonzo Cantu Scholars The Alonzo Cantu Scholarship is for incoming freshmen at the University of Houston who graduated from any high school in Hidalgo County, Texas. BEST Program The Black Excellence Scholars Training Program (BEST) seeks to provide academic support and professional development to African American students across all majors and empower them with the necessary tools and resources for success. DREAM Scholars DREAM Scholars seeks to expand opportunities for DACA and undocumented students by providing support needed to achieve social and economic mobility. Diamond Family Scholars Program The Diamond Family Scholars Program is a comprehensive program designed to support students who have experienced time in foster care with navigating opportunities and maximizing resources while they pursue a Tier One education at UH. Las Comadres College Mentoring Program Las Comadres is a mentoring program focused on supporting first-generation Latina students by offering culturally relevant conversations and connections with current UH Latina faculty and staff. G-Force Work-Study Program The G-Force Work-Study Mentorship Program seeks to hire college students to serve as mentors to assist students through outreach, mentoring, and tutoring activities. Mentors promote higher education to local area high school students as well as help with retention for current college students. Join CSE All students are welcome to receive the benefits and services of our program. To join the Center for Student Empowerment, a student must complete the application and schedule a meeting with CSE staff, where they will share their academic goals and explore ways that CSE can be an advocate for their success at the University of Houston. Meet our Staff Staff Profiles Dr. Raven Jones Director rljones@central.uh.edu Kolby Robinson, LMSW Assistant Director kmrobin5@central.uh.edu Judith Corral Graduate Student Assistant jcorral2@uh.edu Ja'Neria Ross Graduate Student Assistant jross6@uh.edu Phone & Email (713) 743-6032 uhcse@central.uh.edu Address Student Service Center 1 Building 524 Room 302 Houston TX, 77204-3017 Hours of Operation Office Hours Monday – Friday 8:00am – 5:00pm University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies