Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide UH Home Human Resources HR Business Partners Employee Terminations Human Resources Employees Talent Development Forms PowerUP Wellness HR FAQs HR Service Center HR Online Resource Guide Volunteer Information COVID-19 Information HR Calendar Workplace Reimagined Folder with Landing Page Employee Terminations There are many reasons why an employee may choose to leave the University of Houston. In all cases, it is the priority of University management to ensure a smooth transition for both the departing employee and for the department. Termination Checklist All separating employees must complete a Termination Checklist, regardless of the reason for their separation unless there is an extenuating circumstance that makes this impossible. The checklist serves as a reminder of items to be returned, security access to be turned off, and benefits to be reviewed with Human Resources. At present, there are two Termination Checklists: 1. eTermination Checklist: This is only for benefits-eligible staff at this time. This PeopleSoft-based checklist will query other systems on campus and create an employee-specific list of items to be reviewed or returned. The eTermination Checklist replaces the paper checklist that required the departing employee go all over campus for signatures, whether they have any outstanding items or not. For more information, go to one of the following links: eTermination Checklist information for department administrators and supervisors. eTermination Checklist Contact List 2. Termination Checklist for Temps and Student Workers: This checklist is paper-based and will be migrated to PeopleSoft at a later date. Paper-based Termination Checklist Reduction in Force (RIF) If your employee is being laid off, this is a very sensitive time for all concerned. Please consult the following resources: Reduction in Force Website Retirement The University of Houston wishes your retiree a smooth transition and a pleasant retirement. The following resources are available to your employees who are considering retirement or who have recently retired: Retirement Website (Benefits) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies