Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII) Fund Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact Brown Technology Innovations provides and manages translational development capabilities to help solidify proof of technical feasibility and of commercial relevance, both of which can de-risk an idea or discovery and turn it into more concrete product opportunities that are attractive to potential industry partners or startup creators. In collaboration with our office, the Division of Biology and Medicine has launched a translational commercial development program, Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII). BBII manages an academic accelerator fund dedicated to supporting academic biomedical technologies--with potential for high impact--to become well-defined product opportunities that are attractive to industry partners and investors. BBII achieves its goals by: Funding translational research projects - up to 5 proposals per annual cycle ~$100,000 for 12 months (with possibility of renewal). Projects are focused on validation of technical feasibility and commercial relevance. Advising/coaching – by an independent panel of advisors with broad expertise in evaluation, investment and commercialization of biomedical technologies. Partnering/managing – BBII will identify and retain consultants and contract research organizations to leverage development expertise and provide project management support to ensure focus and timely delivery on project milestones. Exploring commercial development opportunities – As opportunities progress, BBII and Brown Technology Innovations will work through established relationships with industry, venture capital, and entrepreneurial start-up resources to find the best path for further development. BBII awards are intended to develop and add value to biomedical technologies to increase the probability for licensing and commercialization. It is expected that many projects will require the use of consultants and/or contract research organizations (CROs). BBII will identify and retain consultants and contract research organizations to leverage development expertise and provide project management support to ensure focus and timely delivery on project milestones. BBII awards may be used to fund projects such as: Identification and/or chemical optimization of small molecule drug candidates Development of therapeutic or diagnostic antibodies or other biologics Evaluation of therapeutic lead candidates in cell based and/or animal models of disease Identification and validation of a biomarker for efficacy or profiling Development and/or testing of a diagnostic or device prototype Other advanced pre-commercial research Application process: Interested applicants should review the BBII Request for Proposals - Full Description and Guidelines. Pre-proposal applications (download template) should be submitted as a PDF by email to [email protected] and are due by 5pm on December 16, 2021. Full proposals (template), by invitation only, will be due in April, 2022. Eligibility: The focus of this program is the biomedical sciences, specifically, identification and development of therapeutics, diagnostics or medical devices. Eligible applicants are faculty whose principal appointment is at Brown University specifically, investigators who are covered by the Brown University IP policy and have an obligation to assign IP to Brown University. Additionally, faculty employed by Brown-affiliated hospital partners Care New England and Lifespan who have a primary academic appointment at Brown University shall be eligible so long as their application includes a letter of support from their employer. For complete eligibility details see BBII Request for Proposals - Full Description and Guidelines. Evaluation Criteria: The BBII fund awards are meant to advance technologies to the point where they can be transferred through licensing or receive additional funding through partnering with industry. Proposals will be evaluated on overall potential for commercial relevance. Key criteria include: Potential impact and significance Scientific and technical merit Appropriateness of objectives and milestones for achieving commercially relevant proof of concept Unmet need and commercial market Competitive advantages over other technology Patentability of technology Project team Demonstrated interest from potential industry partners Proposals will be shared with an external investment advisory panel for review and selection for funding. They may also be shared with one or more technical experts and advisors for input on scientific/technical merit or market analysis. Schedule: Pre-proposal deadline: December 16, 2021 Invitation to submit full proposal: February 2022 Full proposal deadline: April, 2022 Presentation to evaluation committee: May 2022 Awards/funding start: June/July 2022 Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Our Team Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII) Brown Technology Innovations Advisory Board For Faculty and Inventors News from Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat