By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Services & Support Counseling & Support More from this Section Safety & Security Writing & Tutoring Technology Financial Literacy Career Health and Wellness Counseling and Support Syracuse University strives to be a place that feels like home. Counseling Our counseling team at the Barnes Center at The Arch offers you a strong support network of staff therapists who are dedicated to your well-being. This counseling is completely confidential, and just a phone call away. Even if it’s just managing the stress that can come with being a college student, we’ll help you face challenges and navigate through university life. Crisis Support Services are available 24 hours a day by calling 315.443.8000. Dean of Students Office The Dean of Students Office helps students no matter the issue or challenge they are facing. Serving as the hub for holistic and integrated student support, the Dean of Students Office is also a great resource if you are not sure where to start with a question or concern. The staff work actively with students, faculty and staff to foster a community of care that encourages, empowers and assists students in their pursuit of success in and out of the classroom. Related Pages 24-Hour Crisis Services Syracuse University students experiencing a mental health crisis, seeking support for sexual assault or relationship violence, or needing medical consultation can receive free confidential services 24 hours a day, seven days a week by calling 315.443.8000. Help for Sexual Assault The Sexual and Relationship Violence Response Team is available 24-hours a day, 365 days a year for students seeking support, advocacy and discussion of reporting options for sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking and harassment. Dean of Students Office The Dean of Students Office helps students no matter the issue or challenge they are facing. Leave of Absence A student wishing to take a medical or mental leave of absence must first discuss this request with a Dean of Students Office case manager or a member of the Health Care or Counseling team within the Barnes Center at The Arch. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy