Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Evening MBA Student Organizations Home » Programs » MBA » Evening MBA » Student Organizations Menu Evening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has numerous business student organizations that provide opportunities for Full-time and Evening MBA students to obtain leadership experience in business-related extracurricular activities. The Graduate Evening MBA Students (GEMS) Board represents the interests of the students within the Evening MBA program, serves as a liaison between the students, faculty, and program staff within Scheller, and oversees student-run committees and clubs for the Scheller Evening MBA program. GBC Committees Alumni The Alumni Committee strengthens the Scheller MBA alumni network by providing networking opportunities for students, faculty, and alumni on a local, national, and international level. In addition to the two main events that the Alumni Committee leads, the Homecoming Kickoff and Crawfish Boil, the committee regularly facilitates other engagement opportunities by collaborating with MBA committees/clubs as well as with other Georgia Tech organizations such as Mentor Jackets and SAA. Athletic The Athletic Committee is responsible for promoting the health and wellness of Scheller MBA students, as well as creating a strong MBA presence at Georgia Tech athletic events. The Athletic Committee’s goal is to provide Scheller students with premium tailgates, competitive and fun intramural teams, and opportunities to experience sporting events around Atlanta. International The International Committee works to help international students acclimate to a new country, find resources, and gain assistance for internships and job placement. The International Committee also provides opportunities for students to learn and celebrate the myriad of heritages and ethnicities represented at Scheller and the areas surrounding metropolitan Atlanta. Committee-hosted events often include cultural festivals and social activities like karaoke and dancing. Smaller gatherings are often field trips to local restaurants or potlucks where members put on their chef caps and share favorite dishes with fellow food explorers! The International Committee is a great "base camp" and opportunity for international students to join a smaller Scheller family to support their transition to Georgia Tech and the north Georgia area. Peer Leadership/Mentorship The Peer Leadership program augments the tight-knit Scheller student community by pairing second-year (or third-year for Evening students) MBA student mentors with first-year students. Mentors meet with each of their mentees on a regular basis (frequency determined by pair) and serve as a great resource for students navigating the first year of their MBA. Through the program, mentors develop their leadership and coaching skills, receive professional coaching instruction, and strengthen the Scheller network by establishing close ties with the incoming class. The program also fosters strong alumni relationships by connecting new alumni with second-year (and third-year) students. Philanthropy Scheller Philanthropy Committee facilitates student and alumni engagement through community impact initiatives. The Philanthropy Committee aims to further the Scheller name through leading community service activities, hosting donation drives, and promoting civic awareness. Social The Social Committee fosters collegiality among fellow MBA students by organizing events and pursuing opportunities that give colleagues a chance to get to know each other better outside the classroom. The Social Committee organizes events including happy hours, wine tastings, trivia nights, and picnics in order to foster a deeper sense of community among MBA students. Evening MBA Clubs Consulting Consulting Club caters to students that are interested in consulting as a career choice. The club’s top goals are the following: Increase the percentage of full-time offers as a consultant at a consulting firm or as an internal consultant within an industry of our individual member's choice. Educate our members about the consulting industry while providing a network of industry contacts. The club aims to achieve these goals by structured interview preparations, workshop and speaker events, and networking opportunities. Entrepreneurship The Entrepreneurship Club provides a forum for those interested in entrepreneurship to learn from the experiences of established entrepreneurs, acquire hands-on training, and collaborate and develop ideas with each other. The club also focuses on building relationships with the local startup, the greater Scheller, and the main campus communities. The Entrepreneurship Club aims to accomplish these goals by: Offering interactive workshops with experienced entrepreneurs to learn from challenges they have faced Networking with the startup community at local events to build a portfolio of professional resources. Facilitating opportunities and relationships with other clubs to compete in nationally recognized case competitions through ideation sessions. Finance and Investments The Finance Club provides its members with information sessions, channels to apply to niche internships, a networking platform, and alumni and industry connections. The main goals for Finance Club are to: Assure all members understand the segments in Finance and which route they want to go Collaborating with other clubs and host mutually beneficial networking and informational events Facilitate and inform all MBA's of upcoming, or current, Finance and Investment Competitions Host educational sessions to teach about topics ranging from derivatives to cryptocurrency Healthcare The purpose of the Healthcare Club is to afford Evening MBA students opportunities to learn more about the healthcare industry outside of the classroom and to attract healthcare industry leaders to Scheller. This club will establish a healthcare management presence on campus for prospective and current students seeking to apply core MBA concepts to the healthcare industry. Events will include a professional speaker series each semester, presence during prospective student open houses, and networking events with professionals and Georgia Tech alumni in the industry. We aim to connect students with industry professionals, engage potential industry employers, and provide a forum for students with an interest in healthcare to discuss relevant industry trends. Marketing Marketing Club's mission is to promote interest and prepare students for successful careers in the field of marketing. Marketing is the art and science of successful value exchanges and covers a broad expanse of career opportunities. Example marketing roles include, but are not limited to brand management, product management, marketing communications, digital marketing, and marketing research and analytics. The club provides networking and learning opportunities to members by hosting speakers, providing educational workshops, and hosting social events for students to learn about specific marketing roles and others in the field. Real Estate The Real Estate Club at Scheller provides a platform for students interested in real estate to increase their exposure through a vast network of peers, alumni, and industry professionals. The organization serves as a central point to help facilitate the connection between club members and the industry as well as provide pertinent resources for their respective goals Full-time MBA Clubs Consulting The Consulting Club caters to students who are interested in consulting as a career choice. The club’s top goals are the following: Increase the percentage of full-time offers as a consultant at a consulting firm or as an internal consultant within an industry of an individual member's choice. Educate members about the consulting industry while providing a network of industry contacts. The club aims to achieve these goals by structured interview preparations, workshop and speaker events, and networking opportunities with current consultants. Entrepreneurship The Entrepreneurship Club provides a forum for those interested in entrepreneurship to learn from the experiences of established entrepreneurs, acquire hands-on training, and collaborate and develop ideas with each other. The club also focuses on building relationships with the local startup, the greater Scheller, and the main campus communities. The Entrepreneurship Club aims to accomplish these goals by: Offering interactive workshops with experienced entrepreneurs to learn from challenges they have faced. Networking with the startup community at local events to build a portfolio of professional resources. Facilitating opportunities and relationships with other clubs to compete in nationally recognized case competitions through ideation sessions. Finance The Finance Club seeks to provide all students with in-depth exposure to a wide variety of finance-related industries and concepts. The club is dedicated to giving club members a competitive advantage in interviews and their careers by providing them with access to academic resources, networking events, alumni panels, and industry speakers. The main goals for the Finance Club are: Creating a strong financial industry network in the Atlanta area. Leveraging on-campus resources (training sessions for Bloomberg Terminal and finance faculty involvement). Collaborating with other clubs and hosting mutually beneficial networking events. Fostering strong relationships amongst club members through a Second-First Year mentor program and social events. Marketing The Marketing Club's mission is to promote interest and prepare students for successful careers in the field of marketing. Marketing is the art and science of successful value exchanges and covers a broad expanse of career opportunities. Possible marketing roles include, but are not limited to, brand management, product management, marketing communications, digital marketing, and marketing research and analytics. The club is open to all MBA students who are interested in marketing careers. Marketing Club members enjoy several opportunities to enhance their experience at Georgia Tech and prepare themselves for marketing careers. The club provides networking and learning opportunities to members by conducting field trips to companies and hosting speakers for students to learn about specific marketing roles. The club also provides its members with professional development opportunities with resume and cover letter workshops, interview preparation, second-year panels, and participation in marketing-related case competitions. Scheller One-MBA Clubs Scheller One-MBA Clubs are clubs that are open to both Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA students. Blacks in Business The purpose of Blacks in Business is to unite Scheller graduate students in a bond of professionalism for the purposes of accelerating development in business while building a sustainable community of support that empowers its members. The club strives to educate, advocate, and promote the overall awareness of issues that face Blacks in Business. Lastly, Blacks in Business works to celebrate the history and culture of people that classify themselves as Black, African, African American, Afro American, or any member of the African Diaspora. Business Analytics The Business Analytics Club works to develop a stronger understanding of the analytics practice by going beyond what is taught in the classroom. The mission of the Business Analytics Club is to develop a stronger understanding of analytics practice, going beyond what is taught in the classroom. More specifically, the club sets out to: Encourage and support relationships between students and industry leaders through established Georgia Tech programs like the Business Analytics Center Encourage, evaluate, and report innovative approaches in the current and potential uses of business analytics Share information and coordinate study groups about professional analytics certifications such as the CAP certification Promote the professional advancement of members As such, the Business Analytics Club focuses on industry connections, learning opportunities, and other events to enrich the club’s understanding of the data science and analytics in practice. Latin American The Latin American (LatAm) MBA Club aims to connect Latino/a/x/Hispanic MBA students and allies with alum and business leaders to support the advancement of our members at Scheller. The Latin American MBA Club plans to foster a diverse, inclusive, vibrant, and innovative community and to increase awareness of the multifaceted identities within the Latinx/Hispanic community. Additionally, we provide regular professional, social, and cultural opportunities to members of our organization to prepare and empower them to become future leaders in business. Managing Technology The primary goals of the Managing Technology Club are to explore the connection between business and technology, highlight innovative technologies, and develop technical expertise in members. The club aspires to create as many opportunities as possible for members to both develop their knowledge of the tech industry and connect with the technology community. The Managing Tech Club accomplishes this by offering networking sessions with full-time and evening students, alumni, other MBA schools, professional speaker events, company visits, interview prep sessions, and case competitions specific to product management and tech consulting roles. Additionally, the club organizes the annual West Coast Tech Trek, which allows members to interact and network with alumni and professional contacts working at major tech companies. It also organizes the Lewis Lin Product Management Interview Workshop to prepare for product case interviews. The club collaborates with other Scheller clubs to enhance the reach of the club and improve members' experiences. Net Impact Net Impact believes the business sector is critical in driving positive social and environmental change, but also that an inclusive and environmental perspective is best for business. The club's mission is to provide knowledge, develop skills, host events, and facilitate connections for all members in their pursuit of this vision. The Scheller MBA Chapter has more than 80 members from the Evening and Full-time MBA programs and is part of the global Net Impact system with more than 300 global chapters. For more information visit netimpact.org or follow the Georgia Tech Chapter on Facebook. Operations The Operations Club provides a platform for students with interests in supply chain management and operations management to increase and share their knowledge outside of the classroom. The club aims to provide a forum where students can prepare themselves for careers in the operations management space by being exposed to the various aspects of this field through company visits, career panels, interview preparations, and more. The Operations Club also wishes to increase engagement between students and industry experts as members prepare for careers in operations management. Scheller Pride Scheller Pride supports the LGBTQIA community of Scheller's business program. The club’s efforts are aimed at promoting networking and socializing opportunities and connecting with all members across prospective students, Full-time, Evening & Executive MBA students as well as alumni and staff. Scheller Pride is a chapter of the National LGBT MBA Organization and attends the annual Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) Conference and Career Fair. Strategy & Innovation The Strategy & Innovation Club's mission is to provide an opportunity for students to connect with and learn from professionals across the strategy and innovation landscape. To accomplish this, the Strategy & Innovation Club brings in high-level executives from a variety of industries to discuss topics such as current trends in strategy, innovation strategy, strategy execution, and available career paths. The Strategy & Innovation club consists of Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA students, and is both an ideal learning and networking opportunity for students interested in pursuing careers in strategy and innovation roles. Veterans Club The MBA Veterans Club exists to build upon the shared bond of service and improve the lives of veterans by relying on each other to become successful leaders in business. The club aims to continue our dedication to service by giving back to veterans, their families, and the greater Atlanta community. They sponsor events within Scheller College of Business that reinforce a strong sense of community and teamwork similar to what members experienced while in service. Women in Business The Women in Business (WIB) Club is a forum for students to strengthen ties among themselves and the wider business community. Through professional speaker events featuring women leaders from a diverse range of industries, networking events, and company campus tours, the WIB club aims to equip its members with the insights and tools for becoming successful leaders in the workplace. Partnership with Men as Allies allows the club to bring the men of Scheller into the conversation on gender differences and how members can best capitalize on these differences at work. Through workshops and thought-provoking speaker events, WIB aims to promote a culture of inclusion at Scheller and beyond, equipping MBA students with the skills they need to manage and retain diverse talent. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures