<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Rishon Benjamin MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” Profit Margin. Asset Turn. Leverage. Three simple ingredients that have become near daily fixtures of my MBA experience. Is this the education that is supposed to help me make a difference in the world? Can it really be so easy? Profit Margin…. what I keep to myself when all is said and done. I promise to retain the undying grit of that teenage immigrant who came to the US looking for a better life; the grit that I know will allow me to persevere no matter the challenge. Asset turn…. what I rely on to make a difference in the world. Witnessing the helplessness that comes from ill health, I promise to treat my well-being as a precious asset that should never be taken for granted. Leverage…. what magnifies my contribution to this world. I might be the founder of a start-up, but its success is multiplied by the unconditional love and support of my wife, my family, and the faith of my mentors, professors, and friends. Three simple ingredients; ingredients that I imagine I will encounter often in my life post-HBS. To the world this may be the key to maximizing business efficiency, but to me, this will always be a reminder of how I want to live my life. Not a bad recipe, after all. — Rishon Benjamin The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College