Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home I am a... Alumni Alumni Please find below a list of pages frequently viewed by GSAS alumni. Key Contacts Office of Alumni Relations 535 W 116th Street 109 Low Library Columbia University New York, NY 10027 [email protected] (212) 854-6728 Alumni Events Click here to view upcoming events and programs. Quick Links GSAS Alumni Association Board of Directors The board is the governing body of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Alumni Association. GSAS Alumni Association Committees The Board of Directors of the GSAS Alumni Association divides its work between the committees. Committee members include directors and other GSAS alumni. Giving to GSAS The generosity of GSAS alumni takes graduate education and graduate student life to new heights. Alumni Events and Programs The GSAS Alumni Association works with Columbia's Office of Alumni Relations and Development to create events that will nurture the relationship between GSAS and its alumni. Columbia Alumni Association All university alumni are represented by the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA). Publications Stay up to date by subscribing to our monthly alumni newsletter and other publications. Career Resources for Alumni GSAS alumni have lifetime access to a variety of career resources across campus. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close