Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Engineering | Undergraduate and Graduate Degrees Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate Degrees Arts Business Computing Education Engineering Health Professions Humanities Liberal Studies Social Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Engineering Graduate Master of Science in Engineering Management The Online Master of Engineering Management is offered by the Herff College of Engineering in collaboration with the Fogelman College of Business. By providing both technical and business content, the program prepares professionals for both advanced study in select engineering fields and careers as managers. Learn More Master of Science in Engineering Technology Improve your employment potential with an advanced degree in Engineering Technology! The MS in Engineering Technology degree will allow students to apply their real-world work knowledge to a degree that will allow them to advance within the workforce... while still being able to work full-time. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership For students with a bachelor's degree who are currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and are specifically interested in learning about lean principles and practices. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Electrical and Computer Engineering - Imaging and Signal Processing Help develop more sustainable sources of energy and more efficient devices that maintain our world and extend our natural resources. Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.