Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift THE WATT FAMILY INNOVATION CENTER Welcome to the Watt Center! Our Vision and Mission The Watt Family Innovation Center is Clemson’s most technology-enhanced academic building, featuring state-of-the-art information technology and special facilities. Established in 2016 with the support of more than $25 million in corporate donations, the Watt Center’s mission is to create an environment where collaboration among students, faculty, and leaders from industry and government agencies generates ideas and solves complex problems. The Watt Center is available for students and faculty in all disciplines as a flexible space for collaboration, innovation and project development. Our vision is to be a national leader in engaged learning and research experiences that are pervasively interwoven throughout a student’s time at Clemson. Our mission is to propel cross-disciplinary student engagement and faculty collaborations by providing high impact partnerships, innovation spaces, events, and research opportunities. The Watt Center's mission is pursued through five focus areas: Fostering multi-disciplinary interaction for students and faculty. Cultivating and supporting relationships with industry partners. Providing resources and tools for interactive learning. Leading the flagship undergraduate research experience, Creative Inquiry. Incubating student-led Innovation Spaces. Related Links Creative Inquiry Clemson Online OTEI Student Innovation Corporate Partnerships Watt Center Hours Regular + Holiday Request a Tour Visit Today Watt Center Events Book Now News Archive Read More Home About Us Reservations Resources Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram