Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Events Distinguished Lectures The Calderone Prize Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. 2018 Winner 2016 Winner Past Recipients 2018 Winner 2016 Winner Past Recipients The Calderone Prize Every two years, the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health presents the field's most prestigious award, the Frank A. Calderone Prize in Public Health, to an individual who has made a transformational contribution in the field of public health. In addition to the Calderone medal and an award of $50,000, prize winners deliver a special lecture on their work. Prior Calderone lectures are archived here. The prize recognizes an individual who has accomplished work of extraordinary distinction in the field of public health or made a specific discovery or contribution that has had long-term national or global implications in such areas as communicable disease, environmental health, epidemiology, social and/or behavioral medicine, health policy, or any aspect of health promotion or disease prevention. History of the Calderone Prize Frank A. Calderone Born in 1901, Frank A. Calderone was raised and educated in New York City, where he graduated from Columbia College and earned his MD from New York University. In 1938, after receiving his MPH from Johns Hopkins University, he joined the New York City Department of Health as District Health Officer, embarking on a career in public health that would extend throughout his life. Dr. Calderone served the City of New York until 1946, when he was named director of the Headquarters Office of the United Nations Interim Commission of the World Health Organization (WHO). He was instrumental in shaping the WHO's policies and structure and in raising funds to support its continued operations. He held key positions in the permanent organization, including chief technical officer and New York office director. Subsequently, he was appointed medical director of the United Nations Secretariat Health Service. History of the Frank A. Calderone Prize in Public Health The Frank A. Calderone Prize in Public Health at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health was established in 1986 through the generosity of Dr. Calderone and his family to mark his life-long commitment to the health of the public. Several years before the award was established, Calderone's father, Salvatore Calderone, commissioned the renowned firm of Dieges & Clust to design and strike a 'medal of merit' in solid gold. Only a few were made, and only one is still in existence—the model used by Tiffany & Co. to create today's Calderone Medal. Dr. Calderone, who passed away in 1987, arranged for the endowment of the prize and medal in his will. Nomination and Selection Candidates are nominated for the Frank A. Calderone Prize in Public Health by individuals in public health and related fields with an abiding interest in excellence in the public health arena. The award recipient is chosen by a selection committee comprised of, but not limited to, the following representatives: The current dean of the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University (to serve as chair of the committee) The president, or president elect, of the Association of Schools of Public Health (ASPH) A representative from at least one prominent foundation A representative from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention An editor of a prominent public health journal A previous prize winner; a government representative (for example, the Commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene) A Calderone family representative. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All AdolescentsMay 19 2022 For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2May 18 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers