Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Events Search by keyword Categories - Any -AdmissionsAdvisingArchitectureArtsAthleticsAwardsBasic Health SciencesBusinessCareersClinical Health SciencesCollege of Dental MedicineCollege of Physicians and SurgeonsColumbia NursingCommencementCommunications and MediaComputer ScienceCore CurriculumCOVID-19DeadlineEarth InstituteEconomicsEducationEngineeringFinanceGlobal ProgramsGovernment and Public PolicyGraduate School of Arts and SciencesHealthcareHuman ResourcesHumanitiesInternational and Public AffairsJournalismLawLibrariesMailman School of Public HealthMusicNatural SciencesOrientationOtherPolitical ScienceReligionResearchReunionSchool of Social WorkSocial JusticeSocial SciencesSportsTeaching and LearningWorld Leaders Forum Date E.g., 06/01/2022 Mentor of the Year Award Wednesday, April 20, 2022 to Friday, June 3, 2022 12:00 AM to 5:00 PM Venue Online Online Categories Awards "Mentor of the Year Award" The Mentor of the Year Award is presented each year by the Irving Institute and the Office of Academic Affairs to faculty on the Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) campus in recognition of their outstanding guidance and support provided to students, fellows, and colleagues in research. Nominations: Senior Mentor of the Year Award Junior Mentor of the Year Award Nominations Deadline: Friday, June 3, 2022 by 5:00 pm Parkinson's Disease CARE PARTNER Support Group Wednesday, June 1, 2022 5:30 PM to 6:30 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Meeting Categories Healthcare Support group for those caring for a loved one with Parkinson's disease. This support group meets monthly, and alternates between open discussion and guest speaker format. If you plan to attend, please notify Elizabeth Delaney, LCSW ahead of time at ead2179@cumc.columbia.edu or 212-305-5779. Elizabeth Delaney is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: Caregiver Support Group Join Zoom Meeting https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/j/97019091711?pwd=TWRFSHAyUCtVdU9qd21lK2l3UFBYUT09 Meeting ID: 970 1909 1711 Passcode: 491025 One tap mobile +16465588656,,97019091711# US (New York) +13126266799,,97019091711# US (Chicago) Dial by your location +1 646 558 8656 US (New York) +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) +1 669 900 9128 US (San Jose) Meeting ID: 970 1909 1711 Find your local number: https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/u/adjD6lkl2f Columbia Stem Cell Initiative Work in Progress Thursday, June 2, 2022 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM Venue Hammer Health Sciences Center, 701 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 LL204 Categories Basic Health Sciences College of Physicians and Surgeons CSCI Work in Progress Date: Thursday, June 2 Time: 11:30 AM Location: Hammer LL 204 Presenters: Bruna Lopes da Costa/Stephen Tsang lab “Towards Modelling and Rescue of CRB1-linked Inherited Retinal Dystrophies using Prime Editing and patient-derived iPSCs” Ronak Patel/Andrew Sproul lab “Protective Mechanisms of SNPs in SH3RF3/POSH2 for Alzheimer's Disease Sponsored By: Stem Cell Technologies The Clinical Picture of Celiac Disease and How to Make the Diagnosis Friday, June 3, 2022 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons The goal of this program is to provide and support coursework that bridges the gap between current and best practice standards in celiac disease. This course targets health professionals in the broad fields of managed care, primary care physicians, pediatricians, dietitians/nutritionists, gastroenterologists, endocrinologists, neurologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, and dermatologists as well as researchers/scientists, specialty physicians, medical assistants, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, residents and fellows working in the field of celiac disease. Adapting Digital Interventions for Diverse Populations Friday, June 3, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Basic Health Sciences Clinical Health Sciences College of Dental Medicine College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia Nursing Computer Science Healthcare Mailman School of Public Health Research Social Justice Hosted by the Irving Institute's Implementation Science Initiative "Adapting Digital Interventions for Diverse Populations" Speaker Charles Jonassaint, PhD, MHS ﻿Assistant Professor of Medicine Social Work and Clinical and ﻿Translational Science ﻿Center for Research on Health Care University of Pittsburgh Dr. Jonassaint's program of research aims to improve behavioral health care for underserved communities. He is currently Principal Investigator of a PCORI-funded comparative effectiveness trial called “Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Real-Time Pain Management Intervention for Sickle Cell via Mobile Applications (CaRISMA),” which compares two mobile-technology approaches to behavioral pain management tailored for an adult minority population, patients living with sickle cell disease and is also leading an NIMH R34 that aims to extend digital cognitive behavioral therapy treatment to a pediatric sickle cell population. His expertise encompasses digital health, human-centered design, and implementation science, his work emphasizes the importance of partnering with the community and other stakeholders to develop innovative digital health interventions for diverse populations. Register Above COVID-19: Causes to Consequences Mini-Symposium Friday, June 3, 2022 1:00 PM to 5:30 PM Venue Jerome L. Greene Science Center, 3227 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 9th Floor Categories COVID-19 Join us for an interdisciplinary mini-symposium series at the Zuckerman Institute hosted by The Columbia Connection. This inaugural event will be centered around the COVID-19 pandemic and highlight work by Drs. David Ho, MD, Larry Shapiro, PhD, Stavros Lomvardas, PhD, and Mae Ngai, PhD. Following the seminar, all participants will have the opportunity to mingle on the terrace where refreshments will be served. RESCHEDULED: Teaching Observation Fellowship — Informational Q&A Friday, June 3, 2022 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Venue Online Event Online Categories Teaching and Learning THIS EVENT HAS BEEN RESCHEDULED FOR LATER THIS MONTH, PLEASE USE THE FOLLOWING LINK TO REGISTER FOR THAT SESSION: https://events.columbia.edu/cal/event/eventView.do?calPath=%2Fpublic%2Fcals%2FMainCal&guid=CAL-00bbdb7c-81192f09-0181-1ae08584-00002ee1events@columbia.edu&recurrenceId= We will soon begin accepting applications for the 2022-23 cohort of the CTL's Teaching Observation Fellows (TOFs). To support graduate students interested in applying for this fellowship, we are hosting an information session for all qualified graduate students interested in applying to the program. Details about the TOF program can be found on our website. Please join us to ask any questions you might have, learn more about the goals of the program, and hear from a past Teaching Observation Fellow about their experience in the program. Stipend: TOFs are awarded a $2000 stipend for completing a series of activities across the academic year. Eligibility: Columbia doctoral students who have successfully completed the CTL’s Essentials of Teaching and Learning workshop series, a CTL seminar or institute, and/or a CTL fellowship are eligible for this program. CTL is accepting applications now through June 28th. Attend the info session: Please register to receive a Zoom link for this session. If you're not able to attend this session but would still like to receive additional information about the TOF program, please contact us at CTLgrads@columbia.edu. This session will be hosted by Ian Althouse, CTL Senior Assistant Director. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Contact ColumbiaCTL@columbia.edu or 212.854.1692 for accommodations. This event may be photographed. Note, if this is an online event, CTL staff may take screenshots. For concerns, contact ColumbiaCTL@columbia.edu. Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Monday, June 6, 2022 to Tuesday, June 7, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health Google Earth Engine Boot Camp: Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science The Google Earth Engine Booth Camp is a two-day intensive training workshop that includes seminars and hands-on case studies to provide an overview of concepts, techniques, applications, and data analysis methods for using the Google Earth Engine to estimate environmental exposures for health research. This two-day intensive boot camp provides an overview of concepts, techniques, applications, and data analysis methods for applying the Google Earth Engine to estimate environmental exposures for health research. Lectures will introduce participants to cutting-edge geospatial exposure assessment methods and example case studies will use the Google Earth Engine to estimate air pollution, green space, built environment, temperature, climate, and natural system-related exposures (e.g. drought, flooding, forest change, etc.). This boot camp is led by experts in the field of environmental exposure science and epidemiology, data science, and geography. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Capabilities of the Google Earth Engine Datasets available for environmental exposure science Data analysis methods within the Google Earth Engine Applications for air pollution, green space, built environment, temperature, and climate exposure research Applications for planetary and human health research Emerging satellite data and exposure science opportunities Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites and requirements to attend this training: Basic familiarity with coding and GIS is highly recommended (but not required) to get the most out of the Boot Camp. While there are several APIs to access the Google Earth Engine, we will be using the JavaScript Earth Engine Code Editor. Each participant is required to sign up for a Google Earth Engine account prior to the boot camp. It is recommended that you sign up during registration so you can work through the pre-boot camp materials that will be provided. Sign up here: https://signup.earthengine.google.com/#!/ Each participant must have a laptop with Zoom installed. To get the most out of breakout groups, we also recommend a working microphone and webcam. Participants may also wish to share their screen with instructors during one-on-one questions. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.GEE@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. The Mouse Genetics Interest Group Presents Julian M. Berger Monday, June 6, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Basic Health Sciences College of Physicians and Surgeons Education Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Research Teaching and Learning Harnessing skeletal biology to treat systemic diseases Julian M. Berger, PhD Postdoctoral Research Fellow Karsenty Lab Department of Genetics and Development Please click Zoom link to join: https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/j/93019202099?pwd=Q1B0R0tkU3FjUitGaEVveXpaRWpTQT09 Meeting ID: 930 1920 2099 Passcode: 076025 Dial by phone: (646) 558-8656 NYC Make your Money Work for You--Grow Your Wealth (Investing 101) Tuesday, June 7, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Education Finance Human Resources Other Teaching and Learning Columbia University Irving Medical Center Working Parents, LatinX and LGBTQ+ employee resource groups will host two virtual financial empowerment workshops led by Cindy Zuniga from Zero-Based Budget. The workshops are as follows: 1. Tuesday, April 26th, 12:00pm – 1:00pm: Legacy and Generational Wealth Planning During this workshop, participants will learn the simple ways to prepare their financial legacies, including how to prepare for the future of the children in their lives. Cindy will review the following topics: Estate Planning: Wills and Trusts Why you need a will The importance of setting up a trust for your loved ones, including your children Investing for the children in our lives College savings accounts Custodial brokerage accounts Custodial retirement accounts 2. Tuesday, June 7th, 12:00pm – 1:00pm: Make your Money Work for You--Grow Your Wealth (Investing 101) During this workshop, participants will learn the simple ways to invest both in and out of the workplace. Cindy will review the following topics: Investing overview (stock market, compound interest, and rate of return) Investing for retirement Understand your current investments (retirement funds) Learn how to run your own projections based on current contributions Understand how small amounts can build over time Investing in non-retirement accounts Simple ways to get started with investing: investing through a robo advisor Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top