Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Coronavirus Updates Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Health Resources Campus Protocols Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Resources Coronavirus Research FAQs Health Resources Campus Protocols Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Resources Coronavirus Research FAQs Coronavirus Updates (As of May 6, 2022) The paramount importance of public health has been evident during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our community has risen to the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic with compassion, resilience, and expertise to protect the health of our community; to help slow the spread of the virus in our region and improve population health; and to ensure the continuity of our teaching, research, and service mission. For the latest news on health advisories, campus services, and other activities, visit the COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community, and the CUIMC resource page, which are updated regularly with resources and information. For School-specific questions, please email us at msph_covidsupport@cumc.columbia.edu; if you have a confidential matter, please email the Office of Faculty Affairs and Human Resources at msph-hr-fac-affairs@cumc.columbia.edu. The well-being of our community is our priority and we are actively monitoring the situation. We are following the guidance of the NYC Department of Health, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the World Health Organization, and Columbia University. As a School of Public Health, we also have the unique opportunity to tap into the expertise of our faculty, which includes some the of world’s top infectious disease experts, as we plan. Current Updates Effective March 14, indoor masking is optional. Mask-optional means that you may remove your mask indoors, starting on March 14, if you so choose, but you may of course continue to wear a mask if that is appropriate for you. This mask-optional policy does not apply to health care workers or students involved in health care or clinical activities. All faculty, staff, and students who are in direct contact with patients or in direct contact with providers who see patients shall continue to need to wear masks. Effective March 14, daily attestation is no longer required to access Columbia facilities. However, a green pass will still be required to access University facilities. Even after March 14, University ID card swipe access will remain linked to compliance with COVID-19 training, the Columbia Compact, the vaccination mandate and required testing. It is also important that you continue to evaluate your health status on an ongoing basis, get tested for COVID-19 if you have symptoms, and stay home, as appropriate, to keep your colleagues safe. Effective Monday April 11, 2022, wearing of non-cloth masks in classrooms will be required. This mandatory masking policy applies to classrooms only and is expected to remain in place for the few remaining weeks of our spring semester. Instructors have the option to remove their masks while teaching. Booster Requirement The University does not currently have a deadline for uploading documentation of your first booster shot and will revisit the policies regarding enforcement later this summer. If you have received a booster, you can upload it here: https://reopencu.covid19.columbia.edu/node/add/vaccine. In order to get a booster dose, please go to vaccinetogetherny.org to make an appointment or go to any other convenient location or your local drug store pharmacy. The primary series plus one booster will be required for all students registering for the Fall 2022 semester. Testing The Columbia COVID-19 testing program will be phased out by May 12, as testing is readily available in public and private locations, as well as through self-tests, and surveillance testing no longer plays the important role that it did previously, in the context of high vaccination/booster coverage at the University. Health and Safety Protocols For those who are on campus, we are taking every precaution to ensure your health and safety, including enhanced cleaning of our spaces. Visit the Facilities Management Website for a full list of enhancements. For information on testing, tracing, and quarantine, please see COVID-19 Public Health Protocols. For updates on the distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine, please see COVID-19 Vaccine Information for CUIMC Employees and Students. Building Access Those employees and students who need to access School buildings but who are not authorized to work on-site will need to need to make arrangements: students please contact the Office of Student Affairs at msph-osa@columbia.edu; faculty and staff please contact Eric Ruberte, director of operations, at er2958@cumc.columbia.edu. Commuting To improve commuting options for essential onsite employees, the University has launched a shuttle service focused on Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx. For the current intracampus and Hoboken shuttle schedule, please see Columbia’s transportation website for details. Travel All affiliates must continue to abide by the Columbia Community Health Compact, all relevant University Public Health Protocols, and the University International Travel Planning Policy. For guidance on all travel, read the Spring 2022 Travel Restrictions. To stay abreast of travel advisories in the tri-state region, please visit New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut travel advisory pages. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All AdolescentsMay 19 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers