OU Homepage Search OU The University of Oklahoma Skip Navigation Admissions & Recruitment search What Will You Do? You might not know yet what your future looks like, how to get there, what to study. You might not yet know how to reach your dreams, create change, impact the world. But you will. Explore OU below. Apply At the University of Oklahoma, we seek smart, motivated, and service-orientated students who will enhance our academic community. Apply Now Visit The best way to experience the OU Family and to learn about all that we have to offer is to visit our beautiful campus in Norman, Oklahoma. Visit Campus Request More Information Sign up for our mailing list to connect with academic, scholarship, admission, and student life information and opportunities. Sign Up Connect with OU Admissions & Recruitment The Division of Enrollment Management and the Office of Admissions & Recruitment are offering on-campus and remote services. If you have any questions, please connect with your OU admissions counselor or contact our office at 405-325-2151 or admissions@ou.edu. You can also find more information through our virtual resources below. 1:1 Online Meetings Virtual Resources You at OU See yourself at OU. Access your personalized YOU at OU portal by getting your link below. Find Your Link Sooner Stories Students and alumni share stories of how OU's real-world, hands-on academic programs have helped them pursue their passions and career dreams. Hear from OU Students What Will You Do? OU is committed to helping you find your answers. What will you do to make an impact, benefit state and society, or change the world? Find Your Answers at OU Apply to Join the OU Family Info on this page is geared towards undergraduate admissions, both incoming freshmen and transfers, but check here for more info on the other options offered by the Norman campus. Undergraduate Admissions Apply to OU as a freshman, transfer, or international student. Choose from more than 170 academic programs and earn your bachelor’s degree from OU. Apply Now Graduate College Further your education with a graduate degree from OU. Explore all of OU’s graduate programs, including the more than 120 offered on the Norman campus, in one place. Graduate College OU Online Make an impact on your future with the flexibility of online classes and top-tier faculty. Programs have been developed in highly sought-after fields designed to advance your career. OU Online PACS Learn more about the Professional and Continuing Studies' bachelor’s degrees, master’s degrees, and certificate programs offered for non-traditional students. PACS Security & Fire Safety Report Admissions & Recruitment 550 Parrington Oval Norman, OK 73019 (405) 325-2151 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources and Offices OU Report It! Updated 5/17/2022 by Admissions & Recruitment: admissions@ou.edu