Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Hong Kong | Fireside Career Chat Events Past Event CAA Hong Kong | Fireside Career Chat Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 25, 2022 12:30 PM - 1:45 PM Asia/Hong_Kong Online Fireside Career Chat: After Big Jobs in Banking, What Can I Do Next? Unlike people in other metropolitans, a majority of us that lives in Hong Kong work in areas related to banking / finance. Meanwhile, the prolonged pandemic lockdown in the city has challenged the way we work and live. Have you wondered what career path you might be capable of pursuing, if you ever quit banking one day? Google? Art? Entrepreneurship? Freelance APP developer? – Good news is, all are possible choices, as our panel speakers have already done so! Join our panel discussion to be inspired! All of our 4 speakers have had a promising career in large banks, yet they have subsequently decided to switch into a completely different career path: a soft engineer at Google, a cataloguer at one of the most renowned art auction houses, a co-founder and CEO of a rising start-up, and a freelance product manager/developer! Key topics we will likely to cover: Money, passion, work? Is it a right choice to convert my passion into a profession? If I start pursuing a career change now, what are my competitive edges compared to people who have been consistently doing the same things all along? How do I plan a career change? What resources are available? How much does it help, if I get a degree in the field that I want to switch into? And many more! Event Details: Date: Friday, March 25, 2022 Schedule: 12:30pm – 1:45pm 12:30-1:15pm - Introduction and panel discussion 1:15-1:45pm - Q&A Location: Zoom (Zoom link will be sent to registered guests within 24 hours of the event) RSVP: https://hongkong.alumni.columbia.edu/fireside_career_chat? PLEASE NOTE THIS WILL BE CONDUCTED UNDER CHATHAM HOUSE RULES. Contact Information CAA Hong Kong [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close