Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events COVID-19 unequal impacts Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health COVID-19 unequal impacts From the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, researchers have tracked the stark disparities in who is getting the virus — and who is dying from it. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and analysts at APM Research Lab, Black, Native, Latino and Pacific Islander Americans have higher rates of COVID-19 cases, hospitalization and death compared to white Americans. COVID-19 is just one example of how health outcomes are influenced by many interconnected factors, including social and economic inequities such as unequal access to health care, housing instability and occupational segregation. Black and Latino Americans are overrepresented in front-line, essential jobs that cannot be done remotely, putting them at higher risk for the virus, according to an analysis by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the UW. Here are a few examples of what University of Washington faculty and staff are doing to better understand these and other factors. Marissa Baker, an assistant professor in the UW Department of Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences, is currently researching the occupational experiences of vulnerable and underrepresented groups. A study she published in 2020 showed that 75% of U.S. workers cannot work remotely — and, thus, face higher risks during the pandemic. With support from the UW Population Health Initiative’s COVID-19 equity research grants, UW researchers are partnering with community organizations to study and mitigate or reverse the pandemic’s disproportionate impacts. From exploring food access among Native tribes in Washington to assessing the extent of housing insecurity in King County, these projects specifically focus on communities of color. The UW School of Nursing established the Center for Antiracism in Nursing to tackle systemic racism in health care. From supporting students from underrepresented groups to cultivating antiracist academic curriculum, the center will be a hub for training, research and practice. Help improve health and well-being worldwide We’re working to address the factors and inequities that impact how long and how well we all live. You can support this vital work by making a donation to the Population Health Initiative. Make a gift University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA