Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Sociology Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology Sociology Below is a general description of our M.A. and Ph.D. programs. For more detailed information, see the Guide to Graduate Study on the Resources for Current Students web page. Sociology Courses Sociology Faculty Sociology Website Print Open All Close All Master's Program in Sociology and Social Research Master's Program in Sociology and Social Research The M.A. program provides the foundation for advanced graduate level study toward the Ph.D. while also preparing students for careers in the areas of social research and applied sociological analysis. Admissions: Superior students, regardless of their undergraduate area of specialization, are encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit, in addition to the usual transcripts and letters of reference, a statement of purpose, a writing sample, and any other information that might enhance their candidacy. GREs are strongly recommended. Apply online at the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Admission website. Master’s Degree Requirements: To receive the master’s degree in Sociology and Social Research, the student must complete 30 credit hours (generally 10 courses). The required courses for all students are the following: a course in methods of social inquiry (SOCY7710) in the first semester of study, one semester of sociological theory (SOCY7715 or SOCY7716), and two semesters of statistics (e.g., SOCY7703 and SOCY7704). With permission of the Graduate Program Director, students may complete either a Master’s Thesis or a Master’s Paper. Students completing a Thesis or Paper are required to take a course in empirical research (SOCY7711) in the second semester of study and a seminar in writing in their second year (SOCY7761); students not writing a Thesis or Paper are required to take an elective research methods course. Doctoral Program Doctoral Program The Ph.D. program seeks to combine the rigors of scholarly analysis with a commitment to social justice in a wide range of social institutions and settings. It prepares students for careers as researchers and university and college faculty. Admissions: The primary criteria for admission are academic performance and promise of outstanding independent work. Applicants should submit, in addition to the usual transcripts and letters of reference, a statement of purpose, a writing sample, and any other information that might enhance their candidacy. GREs are strongly recommended. Apply online at the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Admission website. Ph.D. Degree Requirements: The doctoral degree is fulfilled by completing a course in methods of social inquiry (SOCY7710) in the first semester of study, two semesters of sociological theory (SOCY7715 and SOCY7716), two semesters of statistics (e.g., SOCY7703 and SOCY7704), an M.A. Thesis or Paper (which entails taking SOCY7711 in the second semester of study and SOCY7761 in the second year of study), plus elective courses (to include at least one additional course in research methods) for a total of 54 credits. Other requirements include meeting a one-year full-time residency requirement, passing general comprehensive examinations, completing a doctoral dissertation, and passing an oral defense. Certificate in Advanced Quantitative Methods Certificate in Advanced Quantitative Methods The Certificate in Advanced Quantitative Methods in sociology is designed to provide formal recognition of an M.A. or Ph.D. student's quantitative methods skills. The certificate appears on the M.A. or Ph.D. students’ transcript upon graduation. To meet the requirements to receive the certificate, the student must complete five approved advanced quantitative courses beyond the level of Introductory Statistics (SOCY7702). Financial Assistance Financial Assistance All candidates accepted to the Ph.D. program who remain in good academic standing are assured of receiving funding for five years (unless they enter with advanced standing due to graduate work completed elsewhere, in which case they will normally be offered support for four years). Financial assistance assumes the form of tuition waivers and living stipends. Stipends are typically tied to work duties, including teaching and research assistantships. No separate applications for financial assistance are necessary. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College