Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Resources and Self-Help Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Resources and Self-Help It's OK to Feel This Way We have been hearing a lot about how students have experienced a wide range of emotions during the COVID-19 pandemic. We share our thoughts on how to understand and cope with emotions during this unprecedented time. Dr Chonlada Jarukitiskul and Rachel Chickerella created a presentation for managing emotions that is practical, insightful and based on the work of stress, trauma, and mindfulness specialists in our field. Click here to watch (24min). Walking the Middle Path This video will discuss the balance of accepting reality as it is, and exploring what within our experience we may be able to shift. Drawing on Dr. Marsha Linehan’s Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT), this video will discuss the balance of acceptance and change during this unprecedented time. Click here to watch (30min). Rises in Anti-Asian Racism During the Age of COVID-19 As the impact of the COVID-19 continues to unfold, so have people’s frustrations and feelings of helplessness. It is normal to be experiencing a range of strong emotions and reactions during this public health emergency. Unfortunately blaming all people of Asian Ancestry for the pandemic has been one response that puts lives at risk and distracts from the overall goal of defeating COVID-19. (The Center for Public Integrity found that over 30 percent of Americans have witnessed COVID-19 bias against Asians.) Drs. Heather Wong-Bailey and Chonlada Jarukitiskul review practical ways to both 1) acknowledge and address the pain associated with this rise in racism and 2) foster hope and resilience. Included are suggestions for practicing allyship which is an essential component in decreasing racism. View the document here. This rest of this page is under development. Check back for more. Welcome & Information Immediate and After Hours Care Psychiatry Outreach & Community Building Training Program Finding Care Off Campus Additional Resources Print this Page Share this Page Counseling & Psych Services Brown University Box 1960 450 Brook St Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-3476 Fax 401-863-3657 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory What's New? Current Groups Help a Distressed Student Self-Help Library