Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Masters and Specialist Programs Current: Human Resource Development Human Resource Development, MHRD Human Resource Development (HRD) is a process used to develop talent and improve the learning and performance of individuals and organizations to enhance their competence, effectiveness and change. HRD practitioners work to maximize the performance and potential within the fields of: training, learning and development; individual and organizational performance improvement; and, strategic HRD. Program participants will learn innovative approaches to address contemporary challenges in the workplace including leadership, ethics, strategy, adult education, and diversity while engaging in high-quality, applied research and professional learning. Taught by both practitioners and academicians, this fully online MHRD program benefits working professionals and leaders who wish to gain valuable, in-demand skills that can be applied in business, non-profit, government, and education settings. Those who wish to advance their career and gain HRD expertise can earn an advanced degree from a highly respected institution that is at the forefront of the profession. This program includes an optional emphasis area in Athletic Leadership. Program Handbook Program Brochure Faculty Directory Academic Calendar Apply Now Overview Introduction The Human Resource Development (HRD) field draws from systems design, psychology, education, sociology, organization development and management theory to improve human and organizational performance. The Master of Human Resource Development (MHRD) degree program at Clemson University prepares people to become strategic thinkers and problem solvers who can address a broad spectrum of performance issues within business, industry and the public sector. HRD specialists commonly help organizations and people to identify performance gaps and to deliver appropriate interventions that improve human performance in the workplace. Designed for in-career professionals, program participants come from many different fields and disciplines. Prior experience or course work in HRD is not required. However, work experience is highly preferred. The MHRD program is taught by practitioner-scholars using the latest Internet technologies to create an interactive environment that meets the needs of busy professionals wanting to update their skills and abilities to improve human and organizational performance. Meeting Current and Future Needs Today's employees must develop and implement effective solutions to solve difficult business problems. For this reason, one of the major goals of this program is to provide a framework that includes creative and critical problem-solving skills, and the appropriate use of emerging technologies, accompanied by an appreciation for diversity and ethics to develop highly valued and productive workplaces. Facts About the HRD Profession According to the American Talent Development 2015 salary survey, the average HRD professional makes between $70,000 and $80,000 a year. Based upon Bureau of Labor Statistics for the period 2008 to 2018, training and development specialists will be among the top 20 hottest career fields. Employment is projected to grow by 22 percent, much faster than the average for all occupations. College graduates and those who have earned certification should have the best job opportunities. Job specialties within the profession include: Instructional Designer/Technologist HRD/Training Specialist Human Performance Improvement Consultant E-Learning Specialist HR Generalist Training Manager Program Designer Curriculum Designer/Developer Training Facilitator Program Evaluator Organizational Development Consultant Corporate Learning Specialist Chief Learning Officer Admission Requirements Admission to the Program The Human Resources Development master’s program admits students for a spring, summer, or fall entrance term. Only complete applications are considered for admissions. Applications are evaluated on a continual basis until the application deadlines have passed. Application Deadlines All application materials must be submitted by the following deadlines: June 30, to enroll in the fall semester November 15, to enroll in the spring semester April 15, to enroll in summer semester Application Requirements To be considered for the program, applicants must: Have a bachelor’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Submit an online Graduate School application which requires: Unofficial transcripts (official transcript(s) will be required if accepted into the Program) A current resume Two recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process A personal statement Statement should Include any relevant experience in Human Resources, HRD, and/or Organizational Development A response to three of the essay questions listed below Official TOEFL/IELTS scores for international students Essay Questions Responses for each short answer prompt should be double spaced, one to two pages, and between 500 and 700 words. Please select three of the five questions. Responses should be uploaded as one document on the next page of the application. If individuals, teams and organizations are to improve, they need to effectively develop the talents of their workforce. Describe a current issue individuals and organizations experience in the workplace and how the field of human resource development might be used to address the issue. Describe a situation when you were able to bring about positive change in others. What was the issue? What did you do? How did you know that you were a successful change agent? Describe a time when you had to improve the performance of an individual, team, or organization; include: a description of the organization, how you determined there was a problem, and your approach in identifying an appropriate intervention. Describe a time where you had to develop a learning intervention (instruction and training) to improve the skills, knowledge and attitudes of adults in the workplace. Describe your approach to planning, design and developing the learning intervention? Describe a situation when you led others, how you approach leading others, what you learned about your leadership skills and how did your leadership benefit others? Additional information concerning supporting materials Program Requirements Human Resource Development MHRD (30 credit hours): Core course requirement (18 credit hours) HRD 8250 Organization Development (spring) HRD 8800 Research Concepts and Skills (spring) HRD 8100 Foundations of HRD Leadership (summer) HRD 8490 Human Resource Development Program Evaluation (summer) HRD 8300 Concepts of Human Resource Development (fall) HRD 8470 Instructional Systems Design (fall) Concentration course requirement (12 credit hours)** Student will choose ONE of the following concentration areas: Athletic Leadership - The intercollegiate athletic option was developed to provide a unique opportunity for individuals wanting to pursue a career in intercollegiate athletics. Based upon the curriculum, the AL option substitutes four courses that focus on ethics, psychology, leadership and administration. Students will choose 12 hours of AL courses among which may include: AL 8490 Athletic Leadership Development AL 8610 Athletic Leadership for Intercollegiate Administration AL 8620 Psychological Issues in Collegiate Athletics AL 8640 Ethical Issues in Collegiate Athletic Administration Comprehensive HRD - This option is for students who would like general exposure to all the core elements of HRD: learning and development, organization development, and career development. Students will choose 12 hours of HRD courses among which may include: HRD 8110 Leading the Learning Organization HRD 8120 Intercultural Workplace Learning Leadership HRD 8200 Human Performance Improvement HRD 8450 HRD Learning Analytics HRD 8600 Instructional Materials Development HRD 8820 Knowledge Management for Improved Performance HRD 8900 Instrumentation for Human Performance HRD 8970 Applied Research and Development ** Students must complete all core courses before beginning concentration courses. Program Delivery Courses are offered in eight-week terms (excluding summers which are five-week terms). Taking one course at a time, students complete two courses each semester. Most students complete the program within five semesters. With the support of CU Online, Clemson uses the most advanced online technology to provide a rich, supportive, seamless learning environment. Courses will be asynchronous thus allowing students to access courses when and where they need. While students have great flexibility in asynchronous learning, there are key deadlines in each course when learning modules must be completed. Students will be provided with timely support from instructors and technology personnel so that learning is maximized. Canvas, a very user friendly learning management system, is used for all courses to guide the learning experiences. An orientation module will be provided before the start of the program to allow students to become comfortable with expectations and the technologies before classes formally start. Financial Information Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (be sure to choose the ‘online’ tab at the top of the page). Financial Aid For information regarding Financial Aid, please contact the office of Student Financial Aid. Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For more information regarding the program or questions associated with applying, please contact Stephanie M. Henry, Student Services Program Coordinator, at shenry3@clemson.edu or 864-656-0416. Hear From Our Graduates “ “Clemson’s MHRD program is great! It’s exactly what I was looking for because I love working with people, solving problems and managing projects, which is what this program is all about. Despite hectic personal and work schedules, the flexibility of the online program allows me the opportunity to get a quality education from a top-ranked school like Clemson. As an active duty Air Force officer, I travel quite a bit and move fairly often, so the online format keeps me from missing classes and allows me to start and finish the program without the worry of finding classes to transfer back to the program, or even worse, having to start a new program at a new school. If this program did not exist, I would not have been able to work on a degree with my current schedule. I definitely recommend this program for anyone looking for a high quality degree with a need for flexibility.” Anthony Bryant Captain U.S. Air Force Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Copyright © Clemson University Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development | 330 Gantt Circle 864-656-3484 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson