Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Home About Academics Doctoral Program Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics How to Apply In the SOPHAS application portal, eligible applicants to the Master's in Biostatistics program should indicate their interest in the NextGen Scholars Program in their "Statement of Purpose" and in the "Research Interest" question located in the "Program Materials" section of the application. Applicants are considered on an individual basis. Deadline The deadline to apply is: February 1, 2022. The NextGen Scholars Program provides financial and academic support to outstanding students and graduates of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to pursue a Master’s degree in biostatistics at Brown University. Graduates of the Sc.M. in Biostatistics program are well prepared for professional careers in biostatistics and data science, and many have gone on to obtain a Ph.D. The long-term goal of the NextGen Scholars Program is to shape the next generation of professionals in our field. Key components of the NextGen program include: Financial support, including (up to) full tuition and fees, and stipend support for research apprenticeships An interdisciplinary faculty mentor team to support your research and career goals A supervised paid summer internship The opportunity to participate in workshops covering topics including leadership, communication, networking, and preparing for professional opportunities The chance to collaborate with the Brown MPH Health Equity Scholars program and student ambassadors Eligibility To be considered for acceptance into the NextGen Scholars Program, applicants must be working toward or possess a postsecondary degree from a Historically Black College or University (HBCU) from this list of approved HBCU schools. Prospective applicants should consult the admission requirements for the Sc.M. degree in biostatistics at Brown. In particular, prior to enrolling, applicants should have: Three semesters of calculus one semester of linear algebra one semester of probability The NextGen program will prioritize applicants with an expressed interest in pursuing a health-related career in biostatistics or data science. Why Study Biostatistics? If you’re an undergraduate, there’s a good chance you’ve heard of data science, and you may have taken a stats class, but you may never have heard about biostatistics. Department chair Joe Hogan calls biostatistics ‘the original data science’: it combines statistics, mathematics and computing; it requires learning about an important area of application; and it provides countless opportunities to work on real-world problems that improve health and society. What distinguishes biostatisticians is the focus on health-related applications of statistics, modeling, and data science. Biostatisticians are on the front lines of path-breaking research in cancer, HIV, global health, biology; we design complex studies, analyze the data that derive from these studies, and communicate the results in scientifically sound ways. Best of all, biostatisticians have numerous opportunities to work collaboratively with teams of experts. You can learn more about statistics and biostatistics from the American Statistical Association. Career opportunities for biostatistics have never been better. Data related to health, biomedicine and epidemiology continue to grow – and they are increasingly complex. Biostatistics expertise is essential to using these data to reveal insights, find hidden patterns, and make accurate predictions that inform decisions and policies. Use your training to pursue a career in healthcare analytics, biotech, biomedical research and more. Our graduates have careers with companies large and small, and many have continued on to get a Ph.D. If you are looking to use your math, statistics and computing skills to make a difference, check out our Master’s program and apply today! For more information For more information, contact Denise Arver. Academics Doctoral Program Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top