Skip To Content Skip To Navigation University of Notre Dame 2015 Notre Dame Year in Review Menu From construction cranes spanning across the campus to a record high in research funding, and from fighting a rare disease in Haiti to designing a sanctuary in Philadelphia for the Pope, 2015 was an eventful one for the University of Notre Dame. Here are some of the many notable moments of accomplishment, celebration and reflection. University News Research International Faith From the Academy University News Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President Emeritus, 1917-2015 Fr. Hesburgh Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame from 1952 to 1987, a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and one of the nation’s most influential figures in higher education, the Catholic Church, and national and international affairs, died in February at age 97. View Site Jenkins elected to third five-year term The University of Notre Dame Board of Trustees in January elected Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., to a third five-year term as president of the University. View Article Creating a more welcoming campus Eric Love, the University’s new director of staff diversity and inclusion, aims to make Notre Dame a more welcoming campus for everyone, regardless of ethnic background, sexual orientation or religious ideology. View Article Rhodes Scholar: Emily Mediate Emily Mediate, a Colorado native and 2015 graduate, in November became the University of Notre Dame’s 17th Rhodes Scholar, one of 32 students selected from a pool of 869 candidates, and will commence her studies at Oxford University next October. View Article Notre Dame goal: No coal Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., announced in September that the University will cease burning coal entirely within five years, cut its carbon footprint by more than half by 2030, and invest $113 million in renewable energy sources and projects. View Article Construction on Campus: Expanding Opportunity Several major building construction projects rose from the ground in 2015, including Nanovic Hall for the social sciences; Jenkins Hall and the new Keough School of Global Affairs; the Campus Crossroads Project at ND Stadium; McCourtney Hall, the first phase of a new research complex; and two new undergraduate residence halls. View Article Notre Dame launches inaugural open online courses on edX Class of 2015, ‘Father Ted’s last class,’ leaves Notre Dame A conversation with Justice Sonia Sotomayor Notre Dame adds to Wall of Honor on Founder’s Day Collaboration between Notre Dame and region benefits local economy and University Notre Dame makes additions to Board of Trustees Father Jenkins comments on pope's Congressional address Notre Dame and City of South Bend join MetroLab Network as part of White House Smart Cities Initiative Major Gifts $20 million gift to fund initiative to support students from low socioeconomic families The Fighting Irish Initiative, funded through a gift from Sean and Sue Cullinan in September, will fully fund the cost for low-income students to attend Notre Dame, including tuition and fees, room and board, books, transportation and personal expenses. View Article Alumnus Richard Corbett makes $35 million in gifts for academic building and football coaching endowment Hesburgh Libraries receive largest gift in history from Navari Foundation Duncan family makes gift for student center at Notre Dame Corgels make gift to endow Dillon Hall rector’s position Karen and Kevin Keyes endow Notre Dame head women’s basketball coaching position Baumers endow men’s lacrosse coaching position Pat and Jana Eilers endow defensive backs coaching position In Memoriam Donald R. Keough, Chair Emeritus of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees Robert Pierce Sedlack, Jr., professor of visual communication and design Emil Hofman, professor emeritus of chemistry and former dean, dies at 94 Catherine F. Pieronek, associate dean for academic affairs and director of the Women’s Engineering Program Research Record highs for Notre Dame research funding The University of Notre Dame received $133.7 million in research funding for fiscal year 2015, an all-time record for the University and $20 million more than the previous year. View Article Early survey results indicate that LF will be eliminated in Haiti Preliminary testing of more than 850 schoolchildren in Haiti show that the University of Notre Dame Haiti Program likely will achieve its goal of eliminating lymphatic filariasis (LF), also known as elephantiasis, from that country by 2020. View Article Countries on the rebound making significant climate adaptation progress, ND-GAIN data show The University of Notre Dame Global Adaptation Index (ND-GAIN) in November found that 10 countries have come from behind to make marked progress in their ability to withstand the shocks and stresses of climate change, while five are distinctly less resilient. View Article University of Notre Dame Hesburgh Libraries launch CurateND Hubble finds massive halo around the Andromeda Galaxy Origami-inspired shelters could serve military, disaster relief efforts Researchers propose 'breastsleeping' as a new word and concept Reilly Center releases its annual top 10 list of ethical dilemmas and policy issues in science and technology International Notre Dame produces Liam Neeson-narrated documentary to remember Ireland's 1916 Easter Rising Briona Nic Dhiarmada, an Irish Studies professor at Notre Dame, writes the script for a documentary about the 1916 Irish rebellion, narrated by Liam Neeson, to celebrate the event’s centenary. View Article Notre Dame announces new partnership at Kylemore Abbey in Ireland Notre Dame International launches four new short-term study abroad programs Notre Dame receives $1.6 million from Accenture to expand technology and opportunity in Uganda and South Africa Alumni couple makes $20 million gift to establish Notre Dame Institute for Global Investing Young African entrepreneurs training and touring at Notre Dame Faith Notre Dame architecture graduate designs a sanctuary for Pope Francis When Pope Francis celebrated an outdoor Sunday Mass with some 1,500 priests and an estimated 1.5 million lay people in Philadelphia in September, he stood in a sanctuary designed by James Lenahan, a recent Master of Architecture graduate from the University of Notre Dame. View Article Rev. Pete McCormick, C.S.C., appointed to direct campus ministry at Notre Dame Solidarity Through Sandwiches Father Jenkins to discuss polarization among American Catholics at Notre Dame conference Aaron Neville: 2015 Laetare Address From the Academy Mary Galvin appointed dean of College of Science An accomplished scientist with extensive experience in the academic, government and private sectors, Mary E. Galvin was appointed in June as the William K. Warren Foundation Dean of the College of Science at the University of Notre Dame. View Article Maura Ryan appointed vice president and associate provost Maura A. Ryan, associate dean for the humanities and faculty affairs in the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed vice president and associate provost for faculty affairs at the University. View Article David M. Schwarz named 2015 Richard H. Driehaus Prize laureate Notre Dame among top producers of Fulbright students Anna Kottkamp named 2015 valedictorian Notre Dame’s business school opens newly renovated Chicago space Law professor Cassel helps craft Colombia peace accord $3 million gift from Susan Scribner Mirza to establish Notre Dame’s first endowed professorship in Islamic studies Top Photos of 2015 Explore Photos Copyright © 2015 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574-631-5000