By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Campus Highlights Student Centers More from this Section Performing Arts Hendricks Student-Run Media Connective Corridor The Stadium Student Centers The Schine and Goldstein student centers are welcoming places where you can study, relax, eat, gather with friends, collaborate on projects and take advantage of a variety of services. Schine Student Center The newly renovated Hildegarde and J. Myer Schine Student Center is the University’s living room. As the hub for student life, Schine is the place to meet, eat, relax, study and attend events. It features open and accessible spaces and a central atrium with a two-story video wall. You’ll savor the selections of such eateries as Panda Express, Dunkin’, CoreLife Eatery and the Halal Shack. You’ll find Syracuse University apparel, academic resources and other items at the Campus Store , which also includes a food market and event space. And you’ll see concerts and guest lectures in Goldstein Auditorium. At its heart, the Schine Student Center brings together cultural centers, student organizations and other services to encourage collaboration and make students feel at home. Goldstein Student Center The Ann and Alfred Goldstein Student Center is a 33,000 square-foot facility located on South Campus at Syracuse University. Located within the Center is a dining center, a convenience store, computer cluster, laundry room, fitness center, video games, ATM, and a quiet study lounge. Also of Interest Link Student Center Hours, Reservations and Programs Link Student Centers and Programming Services (SCPS) manages the Schine and Goldstein Student Centers and supports student, academic and co-curricular programs and events. Syracuse University Events Link Syracuse University offers a vibrant array of campus events that support our students’ academic, intellectual and personal development. The Barnes Center at The Arch Link As the hub for student wellness, the Barnes Center at The Arch features programs, services and offerings that promote holistic health and well-being, all in one accessible, centralized space on campus. Safety and Security Link We are dedicated to maintaining an environment where you feel at home. A big part of that is making sure you are safe and feel comfortable, wherever you are. Featured Stories The Intercultural Collective In the renovated Schine Student Center, the co-location of cultural resources promotes a focus on intersectionality and inclusion. Caffeine for the Common Good People’s Place in Hendricks Chapel has been brewing a sense of community for 50 years. The Intercultural Collective In the renovated Schine Student Center, the co-location of cultural resources promotes a focus on intersectionality and inclusion. A New Dining Experience for Students The renovated Schine Student Center offers a mix of local and national dining concepts in a reimagined space. A Holistic Approach to Health and Wellness on Campus The Barnes Center at The Arch enhances student experience and outcomes with a centralized system of care for the body, mind and spirit. See What’s in Store at the Schine Student Center With a new name and look, the Campus Store expands its selection, extends hours and creates space to host events. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy