Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Technology Transfer Technology Transfer Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Technology Transfer The Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing (OTTL) offers guidance and resources to assist the University community in identifying, protecting, and disseminating intellectual property according to the principles of the University Intellectual Property Policy. The Office also strives to engage the business community to maximize the market impact of Boston College research, by identifying innovations and faculty research programs of interest. OTTL’s mission is to empower Boston College inventors and authors by protecting their intellectual property and supporting its wide dissemination and to increase the University’s impact by engaging productively with industry to bring Boston College technologies to market. Documents Learn more Disclosure forms, agreement templates, the Boston College Intellectual Property Policy and Intellectual Property Agreements. Explore the Portfolio Learn more Available Boston College technologies and researcher profiles. FAQs Learn more Facts about intellectual property and Boston College policies, paths to commercialization, and the best way to connect to Boston College researchers. Meet Our Team Jason Wen, Ph.D., M.B.A., CLP, RTTP Director, Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing 617-552-1682 jason.wen@bc.edu Jason joined the Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing (OTTL) at Boston College in December 2012. He previously served as Assistant Director in the Office of Technology Transfer at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in New York and was an Assistant Professor in Virginia Commonwealth University. Dr. Wen has more than ten years of biomedical science research experience. He also has a broad background combining experience in the life sciences, business, and patent law. Dr. Wen is a long time member of the Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM) and the Licensing Executives Society (LES). He was among the first to earn a Certified Licensing Professional (CLP) credential, and now serves as a current CLP Exam Development Committee member and AUTM International Professional Development Committee member. He is also a Registered Technology Transfer Professional (RTTP). Dr. Wen served as a Venture Forum Business Plan judge and a speaker since 2013 at the AUTM Annual meeting. As a United States Patent and Trademark Office Registered Patent Agent, Dr. Wen has extensive experience in patent application and prosecution. He holds a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology from Nankai University in China, an MBA from the University of Richmond, and completed one year of law school studies. Siri Nilsson, J.D. Associate Director, Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing 617-552-2449 siri.nilsson@bc.edu Siri joined the Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing (OTTL) at Boston College in February 2020. Her interest in technology management and licensing stems from her work at OTTL during her tenure at Boston College Law School, class of 2011. She subsequently joined the team at the MIT Technology Licensing Office, where she worked for five years before joining BC in her current role. She has substantial experience navigating complex licensing, collaboration, and research agreements and brings a robust legal background to her work at BC. At MIT, she was instrumental in bringing clarity to the Institute's Intellectual Property Policies and managed issues relating to faculty and student intellectual property ownership. Siri has an undergraduate degree in neuroscience from Amherst College and holds a JD from Boston College Law School. Mo-Ying Hsieh, Ph.D. Assistant Director, Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing 617-552-3988 moying.hsieh@bc.edu Mo-Ying joined OTTL in 2013, and she manages licensing cases related to life science inventions. Prior to joining OTTL, Mo-Ying earned her Ph.D. degree from Tufts University Sackler School of Graduate Biomedical Sciences. She received her postdoctoral training at Tufts Medical Center, where she conducted several preclinical trials to study leukemogenesis mediated by BCR-ABL1 through retroviral bone marrow transplanatation mouse model. Contact Us Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Office phone: 617-552-3260 Fax: 617-552-2970 Email: ottl@bc.edu Maps and Directions Visiting Waul House Beacon Street Garage Commonwealth Ave Garage Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College