Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. May 21, 2021 Dear International Faculty and Students: As you know, Boston College will require all students, faculty, and staff to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 before participating in any on-campus activity related to the 2021-2022 academic year. To help meet this requirement, faculty and students who maintain an international residence must submit proof of an FDA-approved COVID-19 vaccination or a World Health Organization (WHO) emergency use listing-approved COVID-19 vaccination for the 2021-2022 academic year. (Please visit the WHO website for additional information.) If you are unable or do not wish to receive vaccination in your home country, we strongly encourage you to plan your arrival to the United States in time to acquire at least a first COVID-19 dose before coming to campus. International students who are not fully vaccinated may be required to quarantine for a period of time, undergo frequent asymptomatic testing, and/or wear a face covering until fully inoculated against COVID-19. Boston College University Health Services will assist international students and faculty who may have difficulty in meeting this vaccination requirement prior to their arrival to the U.S. COVID-19 vaccination exceptions will be granted for legitimate religious and medical reasons. To request an exemption, please fill out the COVID-19 Vaccination Exemption Request Form, which can be found here for students, and on the Office for Institutional Diversity website for faculty. Uploading Full Vaccination Cards Faculty and staff must follow the steps below to record when they have received their full vaccine dose: Login to the Agora Portal Click the "PeopleSoft Human Resources Services" link located in the "My Services" section Confirm your identity through BC's 2-Step Verification process. To login to PeopleSoft Human Resources while off campus, you will need to connect to a BC VPN and confirm your identity through BC's 2-step Verification From the “Main Menu” select “Self Service” then “Personal Information” and select “Update COVID-19 Record” Follow the instructions on the page and click “Save” to submit your COVID-19 Immunization Record. You will be asked to upload your CDC COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card to submit your form. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, please include your positive test date under the “COVID-19 Testing Record” tab If you have any questions, please reach out to HR@bc.edu Once fully vaccinated, students must upload must upload their vaccination card in the University Health Services section via the Agora Portal, by following the steps below: Select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Health Services portal. Choose via the “required” drop-down the vaccination name, and record the vaccination dates. Click SUBMIT to save. Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload into the Agora Health Services Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES. Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the appropriate vaccine name in the drop-down menu (Note: the drop-down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading and hit the UPLOAD button. The University will be in touch with more information and guidance as the summer progresses. If you have any vaccination-related questions, please feel free to reach out to University Health Services at covidvaccination@bc.edu Have a safe and enjoyable summer. Sincerely, Dr. Douglas Comeau Director, University Health Services and Primary Care Sport Medicine Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College