Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation > Harvard Chan Live Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Harvard Chan Live Friday, May 27, 2022 9:00 am – 2:00 pm Kresge Building, 677 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115 Getting to campus Event Program 9:00 am—Registration and Breakfast Kresge Cafeteria Registrants will enter through the FXB Lobby 10:00 am—Welcome Remarks Kresge Cafeteria Erin Driver-Linn, PhD Dean for Education, Lecturer on Social and Behavioral Sciences 10:30 am—Transition to Departmental Breakout Sessions 10:45 am—Departmental Breakout Sessions Biostatistics Speed Networking for Biostatistics Faculty and Alumni Location: FXB Atrium Meet as a small group with individual faculty in rotating, 10-minute sessions. Discussions will have a career development focus. Participating Faculty: Drs. John Quackenbush, Sebastien Haneuse, Junwei Lu, Paige Williams, and Heather Mattie DrPH A Public Health Crisis: Ukrainian Refugees Location: Kresge 110 Meet your fellow graduates and participate in a case discussion with Dr. Bean about the public health crisis for Ukrainian refugees. Moderator: Dr. Bill Bean Environmental Health and Nutrition Bridging the Gap Between Nutritional and Environmental Sciences Location: Building 1, Room 1302 Participate in a discussion with faculty on environmental health and nutrition topics. Presenters: Drs. Francine Laden, Jaime Hart, and Jorge Chavarro Epidemiology, Clinical Effectiveness, and Quantitative Methods Ask Me Anything: Q&A Roundtables with Harvard Chan Faculty Location: Kresge 200 and 201 The Department of Epidemiology will be hosting a Q&A session with a number of faculty who serve as instructors of our core courses and directors of our graduate programs. Alumni will have the opportunity to connect with faculty in small group discussions. Topics will include research and other public health-related projects, educational work, and general career advice. Presenters: Drs. Pamela Rist, Albert Hofman, Murray Mittleman, Heather Baer, John Orav, Sonia Hernandez-Diaz, Lorelei Mucci, and Howie Sesso Global Health and Population Vaccinating the World Against COVID-19: Rationale and Challenges Location: Kresge 202 Meet your fellow GHP graduates and participate in an open discussion with faculty about vaccinating the world. Moderator: Dr. Marcia Castro Panelists: Drs. Richard Cash, Margaret Kruk, Stephen Marks, Margaret McConnell, Nicolas Menzies, and Daniel Wikler MPH in Health Management & Master in Health Care and Management (MHCM) Revitalizing Marsh Manufacturing as a “Health” Business in the Community Location: FXB G-13 Meet your fellow graduates and participate in a case study discussion with Dr. Siegrist about revitalizing marsh manufacturing. Moderator: Mr. Rick Siegrist MPH in Health Policy Are We Moving Away from the Free Market Era in Health Care? Evidence in Both Directions Location: FXB G-11 Meet your fellow graduates and participate in a case study discussion with Dr. McDonough about whether we are moving away from the free-market era in health care. Moderator: Dr. John McDonough Social and Behavioral Sciences Public Health Response to the Pandemic Location: Kresge 606 Presenters: Mr. Alan Geller and Dr. Shoba Ramanadhan Racism and Health: New Developments Since 2020 Location: Kresge 708 Presenters: Drs. Nancy Krieger and Natalie Slopen Meet your fellow SBS graduates and discuss current events as it relates to SBS with each other and participating faculty. Two concurrent breakout sessions will be held for SBS students. Please attend the session of most interest to you. 11:45 am—Break 12:00 pm—Faculty Panel Presentations A Shared Vision: Working Across Disciplines to Address Health Disparities Room Kresge G-1 Moderator Tamarra James-Todd, PhD Mark and Catherine Winkler Associate Professor of Environmental Reproductive Epidemiology Panelists Jose F. Figueroa, MD, MPH Assistant Professor of Health Policy and Management; Assistant Professor of Medicine, HMS Monik Jimenez, ScD Assistant Professor of Medicine, HMS Ichiro Kawachi, MBChB, PhD John L. Loeb and Frances Lehman Loeb Professor of Social Epidemiology Climate Change: Public Health Implications Room Kresge G-2 Moderator Howard Koh, MD, MPH Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of the Practice of Public Health Leadership Panelists Aaron Bernstein, MD, MPH Interim Director, Harvard C-CHANGE; Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, HMS Renee Salas, MD, MPH, MS Yerby Fellow, Harvard C-CHANGE; Affiliated Faculty, Harvard Global Health Institute Preparing for the Next Public Health Crisis Room Kresge G-3 Moderator Joseph G. Allen, MPH, DSc Associate Professor of Exposure Assessment Science Panelists Barry Bloom, PhD Joan L. and Julius Jacobson Professor of Public Health, Emeritus Phyllis Kanki, DVM, DSc Mary Woodard Lasker Professor of Health Sciences Eric McNulty, MA Associate Director, National Preparedness Leadership Initiative Note: These panels will be video recorded. 1:00 pm—Lunch Kresge Cafeteria Seating available in Cafeteria and Courtyard Attendees, take a moment to complete this one-question survey about Harvard Chan Live! Speaker Profiles News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College