Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources International Students Graduate School Skip to Navigation International Students Brown’s Graduate School attracts students from all over the world, providing rich opportunities to learn and collaborate in our increasingly global community. About a third of Brown’s graduate students come from outside the United States. International students at Brown and those thinking about studying here can stay abreast of resources and developments concerning immigration issues through a dedicated Brown website. A number of campus offices and local agencies are dedicated to helping international students make the transition to life in the U.S. Please consult the following pages for more information. Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) The Office of International Student & Scholar Services is a frequent first stop for admitted international students with questions — even before arriving on campus. Social Opportunities for International Students Resources and events to help meet new people, make friends, and have fun! Household Leasing Service How do you furnish an apartment inexpensively when you’re moving to Providence from a great distance? The Household Leasing Service can help! Women and Men of Brown (WMB) runs provides opportunities for newcomers and established members to meet and engage in interest groups and to participate in service projects. WMB also runs Household Leasing Service, which rents furniture at a reasonable price to international graduate students and postdocs. The Household Leading Services is open weekly on Tuesdays from 10 am to noon. It is located in the basement of New Pembroke Dorm 4. For more information, email [email protected]. Additional Campus Resources Brown International Organization English for International Teaching Assistants Program International Student Resources Language Partners Program Social Security & Tax Information Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants