Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology Faculty & Academics Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program In keeping with its mission to prepare and empower women and men as faithful leaders in Christian ministry, Perkins School of Theology meets you where you are both spiritually and geographically through our flexible Houston-Galveston Extension Program. Hybrid courses and one-week intensives provide an opportunity for you to continue your journey in ministry on-site in Houston-Galveston: attending seminary while still employed full- or part-time reduces the cost to students—both financially and in travel time—and creates a smoother transition for you and your family. Being located in Houston, one of the most socially, culturally and economically diverse cities in the United States, this unique hybrid program allows students to take advantage of an extraordinary range of opportunities for Christian ministry, both as clergy and laity. Through Perkins, Southern Methodist University offers students in the Houston-Galveston region—and others willing to travel to Houston—the opportunity to complete two different master's degrees in theology on-site: the Master of Divinity (M.Div.) and the Master of Arts in Ministry (M.A.M.). All courses in the Houston-Galveston Extension Program are offered in either hybrid or one-week intensive format. Each hybrid course meets for 10 hours face-to-face (student-professor) at the beginning of the semester and for an additional 10 hours at the end of the semester. The remainder of the class is taught online. One-week intensive courses will usually be offered during the January Term and during the Summer. The hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program will offer three courses per semester (Fall and Spring) and three courses during the Summer. Students who successfully complete each of these courses in the regular sequence will earn the M.Div. degree in three years and the M.A.M. degree in two years. Meet the Team Dallas Gingles Site Director Director of the Houston-Galveston Extension Program dgingles@smu.edu 214-768-2645 Read Stories About the Program Seminary in a Hospital: Houston Setting Offers Unique Learning Opportunities Pastors heal souls. Hospitals heal bodies. Given those natural connections, it’s not surprising that a United Methodist seminary’s hospital setting is creating unique learning opportunities for students as well as for hospital staff. Since the fall of 2018, students in Perkins School of Theology’s Houston-Galveston Extension Program have reported to Houston Methodist Hospital to attend many of their classes. Read more > H-G Hybrid Format Provides Good Fit for Inaugural Class As senior pastor of First United Methodist Church in Gladewater, Texas, David Lee doesn’t have a schedule that allows him to attend seminary full-time on campus. He tried an online program at a respected theology school, but it didn’t quite click. Then he discovered Perkins’ Houston-Galveston Extension Program. It proved a good fit. Read more > Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program New Student Informaton Hybrid Course Technology Requirements Schedules Houston/Galveston Locations Costs Community Life & Resources Visit An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share