Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Connect Here. Student Affairs RLSH Get Involved Get Involved Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) provides a complete residential college experience that serves as a converging point for one-of-a-kind living and learning opportunities in dynamic Dallas. We bring together partners from all over campus and Dallas to help us offer unique opportunities for students, faculty, staff, and SMU departments to get involved in life on campus. Explore opportunities for you to get involved with life on the Hilltop. Undergraduate Students For undergraduates, getting involved in the activities and events within RLSH is the best way to experience the Hilltop. Additionally, involved students tend to do better in school, complete their degrees at a higher rate, and develop skills for life beyond college. Learn more about opportunities for undergraduate students. Learn More Graduate Students Graduate students matter to life on the Hilltop. RLSH not only provides housing for graduate students, but also funds a number of professional development experiences that you won’t find anywhere else. Start small, and grow your involvement with us. Explore opportunities for graduate students. Get Going Faculty Living on campus provides residents with a built-in support system of faculty members, staff members, and seasoned students. We are always looking for faculty to invest in students through a variety of formal and informal commitment levels. Learn more about how faculty can enhance residential life at SMU. Get Connected Staff We cannot do it alone. RLSH empowers a wide range of committed, professional staff on campus to support residents every day of their Mustang experience. Learn more about avenues to get involved in residential life as an RLSH staff member at SMU. Engage with Us Dallas Community Take advantage of living in a large, metropolitan city with a rich arts and music scene, major sports programs, and a thriving business environment. Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) sponsors unique programs throughout the academic year for residents to engage with their city. Our programs are designed to assist students with career preparation, community engagement opportunities, and unique field experiences in the city of Dallas. Collaborate with SMU SMU Departments and Units RLSH knows firsthand the importance of collaborating with academic and student affairs units to promote the success of our students. Take a look at our current powerful partnerships or propose a new collaboration. Partner with Us More Ways to Connect Explore Connect Student Involvement Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share