Skip to main content Skip to main navigation College of Arts & Sciences Menu About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give Baylor>Arts & Sciences>About>Strategic Plan>Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education A&Spire to Illuminate Pillar 2 Transformational Undergraduate Education Baylor University’s new academic strategic plan, Illuminate, reaffirms the University’s historic commitment to transformational education. Building upon this strong foundation, the College of Arts & Sciences proudly assumes its central role and responsibility in providing dynamic programming within and beyond the classroom. When Baylor University was founded in 1845 under the motto of Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana, it set itself on a course to produce graduates who would serve communities far and near. We have been successful for 170 years in shaping physicians, lawyers, entrepreneurs, political leaders, educators, ministers, engineers, social workers, scientists, and other leaders across civil society who serve others with compassion, integrity, vision, and skill. Arts & Sciences is poised not only to continue but also to strengthen the delivery of our dynamic undergraduate education as our students become informed citizens in a changing democracy, servant leaders in faith communities, superior professionals in diverse fields, and devoted family members and friends. We will also continue to recruit a faculty who help students achieve these goals and who reflect the changing demographics of our student body. Coupled with Illuminate’s vision for Baylor to become a premier Christian research university is an equally ambitious goal of becoming a Tier 1 undergraduate institution (T1). These two endeavors complement one another, and the imperative regarding the increased focus on research accomplishments is matched by a goal of continuing to provide a life-changing experience for our students in an ever-changing world. At the heart of our strategy for delivering a dynamic, transformational undergraduate experience are the following initiatives: ● Fully implementing the new Unified Core Curriculum, thereby improving educational opportunities for the BA, BS, BFA, and BSAS degrees. ● Practicing Enrollment Management to recruit, retain, and graduate a diverse population of undergraduates at the level of institutions ranked in the top 50 universities in the U.S. News & World Report (USN&WR). ● Capitalizing on the Baylor brand by expanding and improving the services and programming of the Office of Prehealth Studies (OPHS). ● Developing the Office of Engaged Learning (OEL) that mentors and supports our diverse student population in gaining internships, conducting research, engaging with the community, and winning national and international scholarships. These initiatives are built upon a vision for a transformative education that includes a thorough foundation in the humanities, social sciences, and sciences while holding true to and magnifying our University’s mission. Vision: The College of Arts & Sciences will provide students with a broad-based, liberal education that prepares them to engage with ideas that are new to them, to think expansively about who they are and their place in the world, and to apply their learning to the good of the neighbor and flourishing of creation. Unified Core Curriculum Building upon the University’s General Education Outcomes, the “core curriculum, taught within a community of Christian scholars, enables men and women to acquire the knowledge, skills, and virtues needed to uncover and recognize truth, to deepen their faith, to live virtuously, to strengthen their communities, and to affect the world in transformative ways.” Goal 1: Fully implement the Unified Core Curriculum. Action Steps 1.1 Assist all other Baylor colleges and schools as they “map on” to the A&S core curriculum. Year 1: All academic units at Baylor have now mapped on the Arts & Sciences Unified Core Curriculum to varying degrees. The Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences is most closely aligned, and the School of Engineering & Computer Science is the least aligned. Arts & Sciences keeps a detailed record of this. 1.2 Implement and populate the Creative Arts Experience (CAE) opportunities. Year 1: Arts & Sciences implemented the CAE requirement in the fall of 2021. A Coordinator of CAE has been hired to manage these events for our students. During the 2020-2021 academic year, 11,101 students participated in 284 CAE events. 1.3 Develop a Core Fellows Program. Year 1: Initial discussions began in 2019, but were discontinued during 2020-2021. 1.4 Develop and implement civic engagement opportunities. Year 1: Initial discussions began in 2019, but were discontinued during 2020-2021. Goal 2: Improve undergraduate curricular opportunities. Action Steps 2.1 Increase A&S faculty participation in University Chapel. Year 1: The Arts & Sciences Council of Chairs approved new versions of Chapel opportunities for the Unified Core Curriculum: Chapel Online, Chapel Worship, Chapel Prayers, Chapel Studies, and Chapel Forum. Chapel Online covers Old and New Testament themes ranging from Genesis to Revelation, to complement the objectives of the required REL 1310: Christian Scriptures class taught by faculty in the Department of Religion. During 2020-2021, six A&S faculty participated in Chapel Online. In addition, faculty in the Department of Film and Digital Media assisted in filming Chapel Online. Each semester, A&S faculty will be invited to preach in Chapel Worship. The Chapel Studies format will allow additional A&S faculty to participate in ways that link Christian faith and practice to the student's major and vocation. For example, seven A&S faculty led in the "Faith and the Healing Professions" section of Chapel Studies. The Chapel Forum will make use of A&S faculty experts in ethics, the environment, climate change, race, ethnicity, and other areas of national and international importance. 2.2 Work with campus partners, including the Academy for Teaching and Learning (ATL) and the Institute for Faith and Learning (IFL), to develop opportunities for A&S faculty to design or redesign core courses. Year 1: Sixty-nine A&S faculty participated in ATL-hosted training sessions regarding online course design, 193 faculty participated as mentors to others, and 354 faculty participated in the CANVAS faculty learning hub. In part, faculty participation reflected the conversion of many classes to online instruction as a consequence of the pandemic. 2.3 Establish a Core Curriculum Diversity Advisory Group to increase resources for faculty as they design courses with cultural competency components in mind to celebrate our increasingly diverse student body. Year 1: The Core Curriculum Diversity Advisory Group submitted a report that is currently under review. The initiatives outlines in the report will begin in the fall of 2021, with a Diversity Advisory Group providing ongoing leadership in this area. 2.4 Assess the Core: In Year 1 develop and approve an assessment plan and begin the assessment of the core according to the assessment plan (yearly task with report going to Core Curriculum Advisory Committee [CCAC] at the end of each year); and by Year 5, the Office of the Core will conduct a meta assessment of the core curriculum and provide a report to the Dean. The Director of the Core will work with the Provost’s Office, the chairs of the Core Curriculum Diversity Advisory Group, and the chairs of the A&S Diversity Taskforce in assessing the extent to which the diversity requirements of the Core are being implemented. Year 1: Lauren Poor, Director of the Core, completed the assessment plan and implementation will begin in the coming academic year. The plan includes a Unified Core Curriculum website that outlines a diversity and inclusion plan, dashboards, CAE graduation requirements and general education matrix for all units. 2.5 Increase visibility and access to interdisciplinary majors and minors through Web presence. Year 1: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies began development of its website, under the direction of Director Paul Martens. 2.6 Work with departments and A&S Curriculum Committee to refine existing interdisciplinary majors and minors (especially Medical Humanities and Area Studies). This work will be done by the Director of the Core and the Director of Interdisciplinary Programs. Year 1: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies is working to move the Area Studies program under its jurisdiction to encourage greater participation from affiliated departments. Medical Humanities has appointed numerous affiliated faculty to assist with course offerings. 2.7 Work with departments and A&S Curriculum Committee to develop and implement new interdisciplinary minors and certificates. This work will be conducted by the Director of the Core and the Director of Interdisciplinary Programs. Year 1: The A&S Curriculum Committee and the Council of Chairs approved a new Certificate in Bioethics. 2.8 Increase the number of students pursuing double and secondary interdisciplinary majors. 2.9 Increase the number of students pursuing an interdisciplinary minor and certificates. 2.10 Work with departments and A&S Curriculum Committee to develop five interdisciplinary certificates. 2.11 Increase courses with a cross-cultural element to prepare students better for “worldwide leadership and service.” 2.12 Populate the Grand Challenges in the Science Distribution List of the unified core curriculum with four interdisciplinary courses. Year 1: This initiative was put on hold during the pandemic and little progress has been made to this date. 2.13 Establish a Humanities Fellows Program. Year 1: A task force appointed by the Dean submitted a proposal for a Humanities Fellows Program to the Provost's Office. The Provost approved the program for implementation beginning in 2022. 2.14 Establish a Social Sciences Fellows Program. Year 1: The Dean will appoint a task force in Fall 2021. Enrollment Plan In addition to offering a comprehensive core curriculum, Arts & Sciences is committed to recruiting the best students and then retaining and graduating them in a timely manner. The current 2012-2022 A&S Enrollment Management Plan states that “a Top 50 ranking (based on U.S. News and World Report metrics) is achievable if the University is able to move forward on multiple fronts, but the goal cannot be met without extending the achievements in our major strength—undergraduate education, particularly in the University’s largest academic unit—the College of Arts and Sciences.” According to the USN&WR 2021 analysis, 47% of the ranking is directly related to recruitment, retention and graduation, i.e., undergraduate education. Building on our continued success in recruiting high-ability students,1 the action steps outlined below will place us on a trajectory to achieve a T1 ranking within a decade. Goal 1: Retain 89.8% of freshmen. Action Steps 1.1 Implement enrollment practices as outlined by the Academic Capacity Committee’s 2020-2022 solutions document for the departments of Biology, Chemistry and Biochemistry, and Psychology and Neuroscience for the incoming classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022. Year 1: The Department of Biology and the Department of Psychology & Neuroscience lowered the Advanced Placement score needed to earn credit at Baylor. For Psychology & Neuroscience the change became effective in the fall of 2020, and for Biology the change will be effective in the fall of 2021. 1.2 Study and identify retention patterns by demographic subgroups and establish intervention programs for the identified groups. Year 1: During 2020-2021 the University studied subpopulations of minority, low-income and first generation students at the University and College levels, as well as focusing on PMDV students as a group. The study included a VENN diagram to illustrate the interdependences of these subpopulations of students. During 2021-2022, Arts & Sciences will continue to evaluate the data to determine appropriate intervention programs. 1.3 Increase the percentage of A&S freshmen enrolled in a credit-bearing New Student Experience (NSE) course from 75% to 90%. Year 1: Four departments –– Biology, Air Science, Geosciences and MLC (Spanish & Portuguese Division) –– are offering five new NSE options for the fall of 2021. Goal 2: Achieve 70% four-year and 80.3% six-year graduation rates. Action Steps 2.1 Identify and assist at-risk populations by student classification. Year 1: 2020-2021 involved particular focus on low-income students whose six-year graduation rate falls 15 percentage points behind non-low income peers(Fall 2012 cohort measurement point). A&S participated on the Low-Income Student Success Team during 2020-2021 and these efforts helped to raise faculty and staff awareness of the challenges faced by this population of students. Progress has been made in reducing barriers to success. Strategies to reduce the barriers to success for other at-risk populations, such as minority and first generation college students, have resulted in improved retention; however, in the year ahead further study into the obstacles to graduation will be needed to differentiate how a sophomore student's needs might differ from a junior student's situation. 2.2 Seek opportunities to reduce financial barriers to success, such as lowering the cost of textbooks. Year 1: Actively in process. Arts & Sciences participated on the Low-Income Student Success Team. Outcomes in 2020-2021: (1) Advertising to students regarding lower cost options for textbooks, including rentals and electronic sources; (2) appealing to faculty to make use of Open Educational Resources when appropriate; and (3) creating faculty-supporting scholarships for students to purchase textbooks, etc. 2.3 Initiate a campaign to increase the number of students who have earned 30 hours at the beginning of their sophomore year. 2.4 Increase A&S offerings for summer online instruction, offering a limited number of online opportunities in fall and spring semesters for high-demand prehealth courses. Year 1: Summer enrollment in 2020 increased to 8.708 seats (3,847), with most courses offered online. Approximately 8% of our course offerings will be online in the fall of 2021, including core curriculum courses and upper-level courses in the majors. 2.5 Explore opportunities for alumni to assist in A&S student-success efforts. 2.6 Collaborate with University Advisement (UA) to help A&S undecided majors select an appropriate major. 2.7 Offer an online Wintermester pilot program for 2020-21 and 2021-22 and provide an analysis of the pilot for the Dean and COC. Year 1: The 2020-2021 Wintermester Pilot offered five common core classes and two Business classes (225 seats). Plans for 2021-2022 involve offering more than double the number of classes. In February 2021, a report was presented to Dean Nordt and the UPDs in Arts & Sciences. Partially completed. 2.8 Offer a Maymester Baylor in Taos pilot program in May 2022. Goal 3: Create an Arts & Sciences Enrollment Advisory Group to develop a draft of a 2022-2027 A&S Undergraduate Enrollment Plan (EP). Action Steps 3.1 Draft and submit for Council of Chairs’ approval a 2022-2027 Undergraduate A&S Enrollment Plan (EP) targeting recruitment, retention and graduation goals stated in this section. Year 1: The pandemic introduced uncertainty into the area of admissions recruiting, so the University advised Dean Nordt to continue with a series of one-year enrollment plans for the foreseeable future. A&S created the one-year plans as part of the A&Spire to Illuminate Strategic Plan. Establishing a five-year enrollment management plan remains a long-term goal of A&S as the world of admissions begins to stabilize. 3.2 Research enrollment management plans at peer and aspirant institutions to guide the development of the EP. Year 1: An initial review has been completed. Research in this area will continue. 3.3 Explore new markets for recruiting students, paying particular attention to enrolling a student population that better mirrors state and national demographics. Year 1: Exploration of this educational program continues with a view toward establishing "Baylor in McAllen, Texas." Prehealth Programs The Office of Prehealth Studies (OPHS) in the College of Arts & Sciences engages students, faculty and staff across campus to provide services that will enhance students’ likelihood of successful application to programs and schools of medicine, dentistry, optometry, podiatry, physician assistance, physical therapy, occupational therapy, pharmacy, veterinary medicine, and, on occasion, chiropractic medicine. Programming activities of this office include student recruiting and retention, instruction of first-year courses to help students understand health-related professions, student advising, arranging of experiences in clinical and research settings, and coordination of professional school applications. OPHS prepares letters of evaluation and recommendation for students pursuing medicine, dentistry and optometry. The office supports approximately 18 prehealth student organizations, maintains a Living and Learning Center, and oversees the Texas Joint Admission Medical Program (JAMP) and Baylor Baccalaureate/MD Programs. In addition, OPHS hosts a variety of special student success and professionalism workshops, outreach programs, medical mission trips, leadership activities, New Student Programs, the Tropical Medicine Summer Institute, and a variety of alumni and development programs from which a significant number of scholarships are awarded every year. Many students come to Baylor with the intention of pursuing a career in medicine, dentistry, or veterinary medicine but later must reassess their aspirations; therefore, a key element of prehealth programming is to guide these students toward degree paths that they can complete successfully. Programming in OPHS contributes to retention of students and strives to ensure that students who leave the prehealth track remain at Baylor in another course of study. Although the goals outlined below target prehealth students in Arts & Sciences, OPHS serves all Baylor students regardless of major. Therefore, the action steps detailed below present tasks that should apply to all Baylor students, and if these tasks are implemented effectively, we expect they will lead to achieving the stated goals. Vision: Prepare and support students aspiring to careers in healthcare through collaborations with the Baylor academic community and professional healthcare partners so these students may live out Baylor's mission of worldwide leadership and service. Goal 1: Increase first-year freshman retention rate for Arts & Sciences prehealth students overall (as of Fall 2019, 88.4%) and for each of the under-represented subpopulations (e.g., as of Fall 2019, 86.6% minority students) to the A&S target of 89.8% by Year 5. Year 1: During 2020-2021 the first-year freshman retention rate for the general population of prehealth students increased from 86.6% to 91.1%. Action Steps 1.1 Determine the first-year freshman retention rate, through a collaboration between the A&S Director of Information Analysis and the Office of Institutional Research (IR), of under-represented populations, according to gender, ethnicity, first-generation college students, and other appropriate demographics for prehealth students in A&S. 1.2 With the leadership of OPHS, form the Prehealth Freshman Retention and Intervention Committee (PFRIC) with representation from the College of Arts and Sciences Advisement (CASA), UA and Enrollment Management. The committee charge is to (a) identify prior to orientation potentially at-risk prehealth students and (b) design a program of intervention offering study-skills and advising. 1.3 Design, through the PFRIC, interventions (such as parallel plans of advisement) for students who (a) have received two or more academic warnings or who have been identified through poor academic performance, or (b) whose GPA and credit accumulation subsequently qualify them for the premedical, predentistry and preveterinary medicine (PMDV) designation at the end of their freshman year. 1.4 In collaboration with the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences (HHS), assess the nature and effectiveness of programming currently provided to PMDV students, to determine acceptance rates into professional programs, and to make recommendations to improve outcomes. This step will ensure that students are aware of allied health options and pathways to admission to these programs. This collaboration will be led by the PFRIC. 1.5 Monitor the progress of intervention and parallel advising plans, as described in Action Step 1.3 above. The PFRIC will conduct this monitoring. Goal 2: Increase the six-year graduation rate of all Arts & Sciences prehealth students (as of Fall 2018, 76.5%) to equal or exceed the graduation rate of all A&S students by Year 5 (as of Fall 2018, 80%). Action Steps 2.1 Identify, through CASA and the Office of Degree Certification and Curriculum Development, A&S prehealth students who are not progressing at rates to graduate in four years and provide advising to these students for degree completion in four years or with minimal time beyond four years. 2.2 Assess progress annually through collaborative efforts of Directors of OPHS, Enrollment Management, and CASA. Goal 3: Continue to increase the overall acceptance rate of Baylor Arts & Sciences students who apply to medical, dental, and veterinary schools. Action Steps 3.1 Explore and potentially develop 4+1 BS/MS degree and other bridge year programs that allow students to effectively distribute the prehealth curriculum throughout their undergraduate career. 3.2 Provide and promote additional opportunities for students to develop interpersonal skills of ethics, compassion, and empathy through courses that have a cultural competency component to further these skills. Such courses may be electives or required courses in the major and minor fields, as well as in certificate programs. Year 1: A&S developed the Minor in Medical leadership and the Bioethics Certificate program. 3.3 Continue to develop Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and Dental Admission Test (DAT) programs and workshops to support students’ readiness and preparation for these tests. Year 1: OHPS now offers workshops to the premedical cohort. 3.4 Continue to develop alumni mentoring and shadowing programs. 3.5 Expand the professional internship programs with regional healthcare and dental partners. 3.6 Coordinate with campus partners to expand leadership development programs coordinated by the Division of Student Life, the Prehealth Chapel Alternative coordinated by the Bobo Spiritual Life Center, and medical mission trip opportunities coordinated by the Baylor Missions Office. Engaged Learning The Office of Engaged Learning (OEL) in the College of Arts & Sciences contributes significantly to Baylor University’s goals in transformational undergraduate education by facilitating experiential learning. The OEL is the central hub of programs through which faculty and staff help a diverse array of students maximize their undergraduate experience through learning beyond the classroom, linking transformational education to opportunities for application. The OEL brings together mentoring opportunities for students across fields of study, empowering our undergraduates to: compete for major fellowships and awards at the national and international level, participate in faculty-led research, engage in academically-informed work for the good of the community, gain valuable professional experience through internships, particularly in research and public service, and explore the world through study abroad. The OEL’s endeavors in undergraduate research, civic engagement, and major fellowships and awards fall under the leadership of directors (full- and part-time) who work directly in OEL. Efforts in internships and study abroad involve extensive partnerships with other offices on campus. While many of the activities that fall under the umbrella of the OEL have been underway for many years, the University established the current OEL framework in Fall 2019. By integrating multiple programs into one coherent ecosystem, the OEL is truly distinct in the landscape of higher education, providing students with access to unique educational experiences that enrich and strengthen one another. Vision: The College of Arts & Sciences will help Baylor students discover pathways to maximize their education through learning beyond the classroom, encouraging them to discover “the life that really is life,” where they maximize their own potential and apply it toward the flourishing of their neighbor and the world. Goal 1: Increase the number of students competing for major scholarships and awards to 100 annually and diversify both the applicant pool and the awards sought. Year 1:The OEL supported 196 applications for competitive national and international scholarships this year. To our knowledge, more than 30% of the applicants are minority students, first generation students, and/or veterans, though the number may be higher because some students do not self-report these categories. This year the OEL supported applications for several awards to which Baylor students had never previously applied. Baylor students won 25 of these awards (37 if we count one program where our campus-level competition all but guarantees national winners). Action Steps 1.1 Develop a tracking database of awards sought annually by Baylor students. Year 1: Completed. 1.2 Overhaul the website, including a searchable database, that better equips students to match their academic and professional interests with compatible fellowships and awards. Year 1: Completed. 1.3 Increase the Ampersand Society cohort sizes in order to identify prospective applicants in their first year. Year 1: Completed. 1.4 Begin to host interest sessions and workshops, both in-person and virtual, to reach wider student audiences. Year 1: Completed. 1.5 Host interest sessions and workshops specifically designed for students from underrepresented backgrounds. 1.6 Pilot a for-credit class for the Ampersand Society that presents national scholarship and other engaged learning opportunities to students. Goal 2: Assess current undergraduate research activity, potential capacity, and opportunities for growth, while simultaneously increasing the number and diversity of students participating in faculty-led research. Year 1:The OEL examined data from the Office of Institutional Research in an effort to get a baseline and thus measure future growth in this area. Action Steps 2.1 Collaborate with the Registrar’s Office to create a uniform course number for undergraduate research courses in all departments across the College. Year 1: Completed. 2.2 Design certificates in research for undergraduate students. Year 1: Completed. 2.3 Design and develop a curricular platform that helps students learn basic research literacy and discover research opportunities while connecting faculty to undergraduate research initiatives. 2.4 Develop survey instruments to measure the campus-wide undergraduate research appetite and interests. 2.5 Apply for grants to establish and fund research opportunities for underrepresented students. Year 1: Completed. Goal 3: Increase the number of faculty and graduate students who mentor undergraduates in research. Action Steps: 3.1 Create a certificate program for doctoral students in mentoring undergraduate research. 3.2 Support the development of Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REUs) as part of National Science Foundation (NSF) grants in order to allow undergraduate participation in major NSF-funded research. Year 1: The first attempt to develop REUs failed but OEL is continuing to work on this aspect of the NSF grants. 3.3 Implement and expand the Elizabeth Vardaman Award for Undergraduate Mentoring. Year 1: Completed. 3.4 Develop a formal research program for the academic year that shares elements of the Baylor Transdisciplinary Research Undergraduate Experience (BTRUE) program. 3.4.1 Establish Career Development Seminars during the academic year. 3.4.2 Increase the number of on-campus opportunities for research presentations throughout the academic year, for example, linking these to high-ability recruitment events and to development/alumni/parent activities. Goal 4: Implement a Civic Engagement (CE) course requirement in the Unified Core Curriculum for all Arts & Sciences students. Action Steps 4.1 Work with the CCAC and the Registrar’s Office to develop a plan to phase-in the Civic Engagement Core requirement, including the establishment of a searchable “CE” designation for civic engagement courses. 4.2 Increase the number of CE courses, both through the Philanthropy & Public Service Program and through CE courses embedded in academic disciplines. Year 1: Completed. 4.3 Identify faculty champions/pioneers in the Humanities, Social Sciences, and Sciences to mentor future faculty. Year 1: Completed. 4.4 Educate faculty about new opportunities for CE courses. 4.4.1 Work with the ATL to host training opportunities. 4.4.2 Meet with the Undergraduate Program Directors (UPDs) across A&S departments to explore CE courses imbedded in disciplines. 4.5 Work with community partners to establish pathways for student service. Goal 5: Develop partnerships that empower students and faculty to contribute substantially to the Solid Gold Neighbor initiative in Waco. Action Steps 5.1 Offer a Philanthropy & the Public Good in partnership with the Office of External Affairs, making grants to support Waco-area nonprofits. Year 1: Completed. 5.2 Explore options to designate Waco as a community host site for the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty. Year 1: Completed. Goal 6: Develop strategies to fund and administer 50 national or international internships annually for Baylor students, especially in the areas of research and public service. Action Steps 6.1 Recruit high-achieving students to our existing internship programs in prehealth, research, and the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty. Year 1: Completed. 6.2 Work with UA and the A&S Board of Advocates to generate new funding for summer internships in traditionally underfunded areas of strategic importance. Goal 7: Increase the percentage of Arts & Sciences students studying abroad. Action Steps 7.1 Collaborate with the Center for Global Engagement (CGE) to build support for programming. Year 1: Completed. 7.2 Monitor the number of A&S students studying abroad annually. 7.3 Work with UA to cultivate new funding sources aimed at facilitating study abroad opportunities for A&S students. Goal 8: Develop new programs that integrate engaged learning opportunities with study abroad. Action Steps 8.1 Pilot research and internship opportunities through existing study abroad programs. Year 1: Completed. 8.2 Work with CGE and A&S faculty to determine which existing study abroad programs are poised to integrate new engaged learning dimensions. 8.3 Explore new study abroad sites that show promise for integrated engaged learning opportunities. 8.4 Pursue grant funding for engaged learning activities abroad. [1] High-ability is defined as composite standardized test scores: > 29 ACT or > 1340 SAT. These score ranges represent roughly the top 10% of test takers nationally. About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences One Bear Place #97344 Waco, TX 76798-7344 (254) 710-3361 Facebook Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give