Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement Menu Main menu Home About Us Units and Programs Scholarships Partnerships Diversity & Inclusion Summit Diversity Plan Campus Actions FAQs Secondary Menu Meet Our Team News & Events Give Newsletter Sign-up Mobile menu Home About Us Units and Programs Scholarships Partnerships Diversity & Inclusion Summit Diversity Plan Campus Actions FAQs Meet Our Team News & Events Give Newsletter Sign-up Student Jobs Request a hotspot Making Excellence Inclusive. Transforming Campus Culture. Combating Racism. “What I try to tell young people is that if you come together with a mission, and it’s grounded with love and a sense of community, you can make the impossible possible.” Rep. John Lewis (1940-2020) Join our Power of Community initiative this spring The Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement (ODECE) seeks to create an inclusive campus, supporting those who have been historically excluded from higher education. Guided by the campus diversity plan, our programs, scholarships and partnerships help build a culture of belonging and engagement among students, staff and faculty. Inclusion, Diversity and Excellence in Academics (IDEA) Plan We embrace CU Boulder's core values: Creating a welcoming and inclusive environment Maximizing the success and inclusion of all students, staff and faculty Engaging with diverse perspectives through a growth mindset Home Our Units and Programs Precollege Outreach and Engagement Center for Inclusion and Social Change Colorado Diversity Initiative Diversity and Inclusion Summit Trainings and Workshops Scholarships Colorado Opportunity Scholarship (COSI) ODECE Student Support Fund Other Campus Scholarships Partnerships CU LEAD Alliance DACA/ASSET Resources Faculty Diversity Action Plan Campus Diversity Plan Campus & Community Partnerships Impact 1,800 precollege students and parents participate in CU Boulder programs $2 million in COSI scholarships support 300 CU Boulder students 4,500 students, staff and faculty attended our programs in 2020-21 More about our impact ODECE News Amanda Linsenmeyer to serve as CISC interim senior director Linsenmeyer has been the center’s director for intercultural engagement since 2019, and will maintain that role and also assume some of the responsibilities held by Dyonne Bergeron, who is now acting vice provost and associate vice chancellor for DEI. Read more Creator of the 1619 Project to give MLK commemorative talk To commemorate MLK Jr. Day, CU Boulder invites the public to join a conversation about King’s legacy and the importance of truth and history with Nikole Hannah-Jones, a Pulitzer Prize-winning professor at Howard University and racial injustice reporter. Read more Celebrating 21 years of women who make a difference Nearly two dozen women were honored recently for having a positive, transformational impact on the CU Boulder community as leaders, advocates, activists, problem solvers, friends, mentors, caregivers and more. Read more More ODECE News Campus DEI Events See all DEI Events Footer menu Student Jobs Request a hotspot Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement odece@colorado.edu Office: Regent Suites 206/207 UCB 18 303.735.1332 ODECE acknowledges that the University sits upon land within the territories of the Ute, Cheyenne and Arapaho peoples. Further, we acknowledge that 48 contemporary tribal nations are historically tied to the lands that make up the state of Colorado. Instagram Twitter Facebook University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page