Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Graduate School Skip to Navigation Internal Funding & Appointments GRADUATE TRAVEL FUNDS All applications and associated documentation must be submitted online through UFunds. Conference Travel Doctoral Research Travel Grant Joukowsky Summer Reserach Award International Travel Fund Global Mobility Research Fellowship Doctoral students The Graduate School at Brown offers incoming doctoral students five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, a health-services fee, and health- and dental-insurance subsidies. All forms of student support, except loans, are administered through the Graduate School in cooperation with department and programs. This support may take the form of a teaching assistantship, research assistantship, fellowship, or proctorship. All such assignments form part of the student’s professional training, and are viewed as integral to the student’s academic development. See individual program requirements for graduate training. All recommendations for graduate student funding are made at the program level. Eligibility and awards are determined annually and are always conditional on students making satisfactory progress toward their degrees. Students with questions or concerns regarding Brown funding — including eligibility, awards, or renewals — should discuss them with the program’s director of graduate study. Students should be mindful of the fact that teaching, research, and proctorship appointments are part of their professional training. Such appointments establish a responsibility to the faculty and students within the academic unit. Performance Performance in these appointments is also a component of a student’s academic review. Students who fail to perform in their funded Graduate School appointments (as RAs, TAs, fellows or proctors) can be terminated and their funding suspended. For specifics, please refer to the Graduate School Handbook. Failure to perform on an assigned appointment can result in the termination of funding regardless of other indices of academic standing. Grounds for termination must be presented in writing to the Graduate School in the form of an academic disciplinary procedure. The case will be heard by the academic disciplinary board. (See the Academic Code.) As with all such cases, the student has the right to appeal such a decision. Master's students Financial aid for master’s students is not centrally managed and varies among programs. If you are interested in a master’s program and have questions about financial aid, please contact the program’s director of graduate study. Required Documents All students entering the Graduate School with any form of financial support are required to complete an Employment Eligibility Verification Form (I-9). All students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents and will receive any form of Brown funding are required to submit a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). The FAFSA should be submitted on-line at www.fafsa.ed.gov. The Brown Graduate School's code for the FAFSA is E00058. (Be sure to not use the undergraduate code). Internal Funding & Appointments Links Summer Support All doctoral students admitted as fellows get some summer support. Beginning in September 2010, the Graduate School started to offer incoming doctoral students four summers of support, up from three. Fellowships Fellowships are awarded by the Graduate School through a departmental nomination process; see details for exceptions. Teaching at Brown Teaching is an integral part of the graduate experience at Brown, and most students are expected to teach as part of their professional training and scholarly apprenticeship. Research Assistants Research assistants (RAs) work with faculty on academic and research projects, both at the University and in the field. Proctorships Proctorships are non-instructional academic employment offered through academic department and degree programs, or from other research, training, academic, or administrative offices. Conference Travel Presenting papers at professional conferences is important to doctoral students' academic careers and growth as professionals, and is relevant experience for careers both inside and outside of academe. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Processing Payments to Students FAFSA Application Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants