Skip to content Clemson University COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » close Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CAFLS Student Services Prospective Students Forward Arrow Prospective Students Visit us Transfer Students Summer Programs Back Arrow Back Advising Resources Forward Arrow Advising Resources Curriculum Worksheets Clemson Advising Resources Forward Arrow Clemson Advising Resources Advising FAQs CU Navigate Clemson Academic Calendar Clemson's Academic Catalog Academic Forms (Registrar) GPA Calculator Change of Major Back Arrow Back Honors College Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Pre-Vet Advising Back Arrow Back Diversity & Inclusion Career Services Forward Arrow Career Services for Students for Employers CAFLS Career Fair Career Fair Employers Back Arrow Back Alumni Connection Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CAFLS Student Services Prospective Students show submenu for Prospective Students Visit us Transfer Students Summer Programs Advising Resources show submenu for Advising Resources Curriculum Worksheets Clemson Advising Resources show submenu for Clemson Advising Resources Advising FAQs CU Navigate Clemson Academic Calendar Clemson's Academic Catalog Academic Forms (Registrar) GPA Calculator Change of Major Honors College Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Pre-Vet Advising Diversity & Inclusion Career Services show submenu for Career Services for Students for Employers CAFLS Career Fair Career Fair Employers Alumni Connection Clemson Home CAFLS CAFLS Student Services Current: Graduates 2022 Graduates Congratulations to the Class of 2022. You made it! The hours in classes, labs and in the field, the time spent studying for tests, all of that has paid off and you’re crossing the finish line. We are so proud of your accomplishments and can’t wait to see what amazing things you’ll do in the future. No matter where you go, you’ll always have a home in CAFLS. Go Tigers! Meet a few of the newest CAFLS alumni. Julia Daniel Agribusiness Nesmith, SC What is the best thing about being a student in CAFLS? The best thing about being a student in CAFLS is the amount of love and support the faculty, staff and other students show each other. We really are all one big family. Describe CAFLS in one word. Home What advice would you give to an incoming student? Keep an open mind and get involved!! College can be scary at first, but if you stay optimistic and surround yourself with great people, you will love it at here. What are your post-grad plans? I will be working at International Paper Company, in Eastover, SC as a Fiber Supply Associate. Erica Wearing Agricultural Education Seneca, SC What makes your major unique? My major is unique in that we get to sample a little bit of everything CAFLS has to offer. While all of us have areas we enjoy more (mine being plant science!), I still got to take agricultural mechanization, animal science and environmental courses so I have a well-rounded foundation. Who has been your favorite instructor in your major and why? I have had some awesome professors in my major, but my favorite is Dr. DiBenedetto. She was tough and required a lot from students, but I have already seen how well that preparation will serve me in my career. I also completed an internship with her and participated in two research projects. I am thankful for all the opportunities she provided. Describe CAFLS in one word. Caring. What are your post-grad plans? I will be an agricultural educator at Oakridge Middle School in Clover, SC! Lindsey Burroughs Animal and Veterinary Science Laurens, SC What makes your major unique? What makes AVS unique is the number of hand-on courses and opportunities. This allows us to uniquely experience what we are learning and gives us a chance to do it ourselves. What is your favorite place on campus? McGinty Mall. It is such a beautiful and relaxing place to study, and it has always been my favorite ever since I was young and came to Clemson for 4-H horse competitions. What advice would you give to an incoming student? I would tell them to cherish every moment because before they know it, they too will be graduating and saying goodbye. What will you miss most about Clemson? I will miss getting the opportunity to go out to the farms and interact with the animals. Jewel Dinkins Animal and Veterinary Science Blythewood, SC What is the best thing about being a student in CAFLS? A great support system, with so many different options of careers to work towards. The professors and staff are extremely helpful. What has been your favorite class in your major and why? My favorite class would have to be Poultry Techniques because the instructor really encouraged hands-on learning. I enjoyed taking care of the chickens and learning how to help them grow. What makes your major unique? Animal science is one of the most rigorous majors at Clemson, especially if you are pre-vet. But that is all for great reason – there are so many different successful career paths available. What are your post-grad plans? I want to work towards earning a doctorate in veterinary medicine so that I can pursue my dream job as a conservation veterinarian for wildlife and the preservation of endangered species. George DeCarvalho Environmental and Natural Resources Greenville, SC Who has been your favorite instructor and why? Dr. Donald Hagan. I had him for a really hard class (Dendrology) and even though it was incredibly tough I still find myself using what I learned in that class all the time. He was also my advisor and went above and beyond to help me find opportunities like undergraduate research and internships. He is tough, but fair. What makes your major unique? I started in a different major but soon found my way to Environmental and Natural Resources. I’ve always liked being outdoors, hunting and fishing, so this was a natural fit for me. The major is unique because it allows you to customize a fair number of courses you select based on your interests. This allowed me to create my own path around the things I’m passionate about. How has CAFLS surprised you? The instructors have so much expertise and knowledge, I really felt like I was learning from the very best. At the same time, they really care about students. As a student, it can be intimidating to learn from such accomplished faculty, but they never made us feel inferior by talking down to us just because they knew more than we did. Katie Hannahs Food Science and Human Nutrition Buffalo Grove, IL. What is the best thing about being a student in CAFLS? Even though the majors and members of CAFLS are so diverse, we all unite as being part of CAFLS and are proud of it. How has CAFLS surprised you? How diverse the majors and people in CAFLS are -- I've met people from all over the country and all the majors do such unique things that aren’t just farm-related. What makes your major unique? How tight-knit it is. We really have a close community that hangs out together outside of class. What are your post-grad plans? Production Supervisor at Schwans Company's frozen pizza manufacturing plant in Salina, KS. Julia Jellema Plant and Environmental Sciences Charleston, SC What is the best thing about being a student in CAFLS? It is so easy to make connections with CAFLS professors and staff. I am thankful for their passion because that is what caused me to fall in love with research and plant biochemistry! Describe CAFLS in one word. Admirable How has CAFLS surprised you? I did not expect CAFLS to allow for such class variety within majors. I have been able to focus on chemistry within my major by choosing additional chem-related classes. What are your post-grad plans? I’ll be attending Montana State University to pursue an M.S. in Plant Sciences on a research assistantship. Audrey Jen Plant and Environmental Sciences Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania What is the best thing about being a student in CAFLS? The best thing about being a student in CAFLS is that you have access to big-university resources, while still getting a small-town, family atmosphere in your classes. Who has been your favorite instructor in your major and why? Dr. Chris Saski. He relates to students, gives us practical assignments that teach us new skills, and is open to constructive criticism. What makes your major unique? Everyone in PES cares about feeding our growing population and food security. Our students will be growers, extension agents, plant geneticists, and more. I am proud to be surrounded by such intelligent, caring individuals. What are your post-grad plans? I will be moving to Wenatchee, WA to work for Apeel Sciences as an Associate Product Manager. Brian Rogers Turfgrass Manasquan, New Jersey What has been your favorite class in your major and why? Senior Capstone - this course equips you with knowledge that applies what was learned in the classroom and prepares you for the real world. I have learned from the past experiences of professionals in my career field, and they have provided valuable, insightful advice in all facets of life regarding post-graduation. Describe CAFLS in one word. Rewarding What advice would you give to an incoming student? Take advantage of clubs, internships and relationships with colleagues, peers and professors. Networking and communication are two of the most important aspects of professional life and help you be successful as long as you work hard and practice all of the other pillars of character that come with being a good person. What are your post-grad plans? I will be taking a job as an Assistant Golf Course Superintendent in North Carolina! College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences | Page Update Request intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson