Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date April 13, 2021 2021-04-13 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Hossam Zaki: Innovating medical care through artificial intelligence The Brown University junior was recently awarded a Goldwater scholarship for his contributions to research that uses AI technology to improve medical care. Brown junior Hossam Zaki at the River Cam in Cambridge, UK, in 2019. Zaki was in Cambridge as a student researcher at the European Bioinformatics Research Institute. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — For Hossam Zaki, the possibility of the unexpected so deeply inherent to scientific research is what make it so exciting. “Every single day you do research, there’s no way to know what’s going to happen,” he said. “That’s one of the best things about it — no day is a boring day.” A junior at Brown concentrating in biology and computer science, Zaki is researching ways that artificial intelligence technology can lead to better medical care. With AI becoming increasingly adept at identifying unusual patterns in anything from patient data to bloodwork to medical imaging, new possibilities abound to improve medical diagnostics, leading to earlier detection and treatment of disease, Zaki said. “We are on the cusp of a new medical revolution, and I want to be a part of it,” he said. Zaki first considered the impact that computer learning could have on the field of medicine while taking an introductory computer science course as a first-year biophysics concentrator. “I signed up for fun,” he said. “But once I took the class I realized that I needed to continue with computer science as well as biology — to figure out ways to combine the two.” The course inspired him to pursue a summer internship at the European Bioinformatics Institute in the United Kingdom. While there, Zaki designed a computer program that digitally superimposes different protein structures, allowing researchers to see how mutations in certain proteins affect their overall structures. “ Every single day you do research, there’s no way to know what’s going to happen. That’s one of the best things about it — no day is a boring day. ” Hossam Zaki Goldwater Scholar, Member of Class of 2022 Tweet this quote The program was run over 80,000 times in its first year on the institute’s website, and the number continues to rise. “It has been just so cool to see that people are actually using something I built to enhance their research,” he said. Zaki has also worked at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, where he used AI to identify structural variants in DNA that contribute to tumor development — research that could provide a key to early cancer detection. This summer, Zaki will join a project at Harvard Medical School exploring ways that AI can enhance the ability of doctors to diagnose genetic diseases. A Rhode Island native, Zaki began his research journey in high school, when he spent a year at a chemistry laboratory at the University of Rhode Island before joining the laboratory of Gary Wessel, a professor of biology at Brown. For the past four years, he has worked under the mentorship of Wessel and Nathalie Oulhen, assistant professor (research) of molecular biology, cellular biology and biochemistry. “They have been really amazing mentors — forcing me to dig deep and ask very compelling questions based on my data,” he said. In Spring 2021, Zaki’s research earned national recognition when he was awarded a Goldwater Scholarship. This prestigious national award, which he first heard about through the College's fellowships office, supports sophomores and juniors who plan to pursue research careers in the natural sciences, mathematics and engineering. As a Goldwater Scholar, Zaki will have the opportunity to connect with members of the program’s vast alumni network as he looks ahead to pursuing M.D. / Ph.D. programs next year. “All of these people have done amazing things, and we’re getting to meet them, talk to them, learn about their research, and potentially collaborate with them in the future,” he said. Being named a Goldwater Scholar has also affirmed his decision to pursue a research career: “Getting this scholarship validates all of this work that I’ve loved every single step of the way,” he said. Three students win prestigious Goldwater scholarships for excellence in science Joseph Cavanagh, Thomas Usherwood and Hossam Zaki each received Goldwater scholarships, which support students who plan to pursue research careers in the sciences, mathematics and engineering. 2021 Goldwater Scholars at Brown Tags Awards and Fellowships The College Undergraduate Research Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Hossam Zaki: Innovating medical care through artificial intelligence Open details for Hossam Zaki: Innovating medical care through artificial intelligence Bookmark this Page