<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Justine Lee MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” My mom taught me that the world’s problems could be solved by smiling. Whenever we walked past someone, she would beam and cheerfully say, “Hello!”. She has had long conversations with strangers more times than I can count, treating each as if they have a fascinating story to tell and there is something meaningful she can learn. When I was younger, I found this embarrassing. But as I got older (to my horror), I started to say “Hello” too. Smile. Strike up conversation. And the more I wanted to keep doing it. People from different corners of life taught me things I couldn’t learn from the classroom or my network, like how to find fulfillment as an immigrant or what it feels like to lose your partner or how to let go of your kids when all you want to do is hold on. When we leave HBS, our education isn’t over. It continues with people we meet on the street. It continues with seeing everyone as being able to teach us as much about the world as we can teach them. It continues with a smile. Everyone has a story. It’s up to us to figure it out. — Justine Lee The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College