Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Research : Off-Campus Research Sites Off-Campus Research Sites The Harlan J. Smith Telescope is a 107-inch (2.7 m) telescope located at the McDonald Observatory near Fort Davis, Texas. Ethan Tweedie Photography In addition to the many research centers, groups, laboratories and services on our main campus, The University of Texas at Austin has state-of-the-art facilities spread across the city and state, including J.J. Pickle Research Campus and West Pickle Research Building, a dedicated research campus in northwest Austin; Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, a stunning public garden and research space in southwest Austin; McDonald Observatory, one of the world's leading astronomical research centers in the Davis Mountains of West Texas; Marine Science Institute, the oldest marine research station on the Texas Gulf Coast; biological research stations on the Colorado River and in the piney woods of Smithville, Texas; and Center for Global Innovation and Entrepreneurship, a non-profit research center focused on technology-based entrepreneurship in Nuevo León, Mexico. Biodiversity Center UT Austin offers hundreds of acres of biological research stations. At the Brackenridge Field Lab and Stengl Lost Pines students and researchers study the interactions between life and the land. Meanwhile, the Center supports millions of specimens in its Biodiversity Collections housed at the Lake Austin Center, J.J. Pickle, and more. Learn more Center for Global Innovation and Entrepreneurship A nonprofit, self-sustaining portal through which students, researchers, businesses and knowledge flow freely between Texas and Mexico. Learn more Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center Research center in southwest Austin aiming to increase the sustainable use and conservation of native wildflowers, plants and landscapes. Learn more McDonald Observatory One of the world's leading centers for astronomical research, teaching, public education and outreach. Learn more Marine Science Institute The oldest and most significant marine research facility on the Texas coast, changing our understanding of the world's oceans and coasts. Learn more J.J. Pickle Research Campus and West Pickle Research Building Applied Research Laboratories Ferguson Structural Engineering Laboratory Field Systems and Construction Automation Laboratory IC² Global Commercialization Group Imaging Research Center Institute for Geophysics Institute of Classical Archaeology Microelectronics Research Center NASCENT Center Non-vertebrate Paleontology Laboratory Nuclear and Radiation Engineering Program Office of Technology Commercialization Petroleum Extension Service Texas Advanced Computing Center Texas Archeological Research Laboratory Vertebrate Paleontology Laboratory Austin Technology Incubator Bureau of Economic Geology Center for Aeromechanics Research Center for Electromechanics Center for Energy and Environmental Resources Center for Research in Water Resources Center for Space Research Commons Conference Center Construction Industry Institute Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022