Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close About Home About About Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Graduate Programming Religious Vocations Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Welcome to Campus Ministry! Our programs—which are shaped by the University’s Jesuit, Catholic tradition—form the whole person by: Inviting participants to recognize and respond to the call of God in their lives Supporting individuals in their ongoing spiritual and religious growth Challenging individuals to commit to a life of prayer and service to others Visit Us Campus Ministry is located on the first and second floors of McElroy Commons, on Boston College’s Chestnut Hill campus. Our Main Office is located in McElroy 233, next to the Eagles Nest on McElroy’s second floor. Boston College Maps and Directions Office Hours Academic Year Monday through Friday: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Summer Monday through Thursday: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday: 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Contact Office of Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Ave Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Phone: 617-552-3475 Fax: 617-552-3044 Email: ministry@bc.edu Weekly Updates Campus Ministry publishes a weekly bulletin during the academic year highlighting programs and initiatives that foster lives of faith and justice. Weekly Update for February 6th View Archives Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College