Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ External Programs and Centers Certificate in Spiritual Direction Spiritual Direction Certificate in Spiritual Direction The longing for wisdom is primal and we intuitively sense our need for mentors in the Christian life. There is a way to find wisdom and share it. The formal name for that process is spiritual direction and those who consciously prepare for the task are called spiritual directors. Sometimes referred to as “spiritual friends,” spiritual directors are trained to listen, pray, and ask questions in a fashion that encourages directees to look for the movement of the Holy Spirit in their lives. They ask the kind of questions that nurture the growth of wisdom, using the tools and values that have been sharpened over two millennia of prayerful observation. Apply for the August Cohort Today! Is this Program for You? Do people seek you for compassionate listening? Do you find yourself helping others tend to their souls? Do you desire more training in the art of companioned discernment? If you’ve asked yourself these questions then this program may be for you. Designed for graduate students, lay people, and clergy, the program is offered in a user-friendly, non-traditional format designed to accommodate the busy lives of people who wish to train during the weekend. Program Structure CSD is a non-credit, continuing education program that seeks to train participants in the art of accompaniment and guidance of others in their spiritual journey. Training courses are offered through eight weekend sessions held in April, August, and December over a period of three years. (New cohorts begin in April and August only). Participants will receive a certificate of completion after all required courses and training have been successfully fulfilled. CSD Applicants and Spiritual Direction In addition to enhancing your own personal growth, the experience of receiving spiritual direction is beneficial to and grounds your own training for directing others. It is thus strongly recommended that applicants to the Certificate in Spiritual Direction (CSD) program at Perkins School of Theology meet with a spiritual director at least six months prior to beginning the program. For those who wish to apply and do not meet the recommended six month period, a waiver and a spiritual director referral (if needed) may be requested by contacting the Office of Spiritual Direction, 214-768-3664. Upon acceptance CSD students are required to meet monthly with a spiritual director throughout the duration of the program. Tuition Tuition includes two meals and parking each weekend. You are responsible for your own travel and lodging. Tuition is designed to “pay as you go” to allow students to budget and plan ahead. We accept checks (payable to SMU-Perkins) and credit cards. Regular Registration (8 weeks prior to weekend) - $435.00 Late Registration (4 weeks prior to weekend)- $465.00 Last Minute Registration (week of) - $490.00 Admission Requirements Complete online application (follow link below) $100.00 application fee (checks or credit card) Essay (View essay questions on online application page.) Three letters of reference Apply for the April Cohort Today! Application Due Dates April Session – applications are due February 28 August Session – applications are due June 30 Sign up for more information by following the link below. Sign Up for Email Updates Spiritual Direction Application Schedule Core Courses Testimonials Faculty CSD Scholarships Contact Information An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share