Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About SMU About Mission Statement Core Values SMU Facts Administration Strategic Plan Annual Report AnnualReport Moving Forward Together Contact SMU Maps and directions Academics Academics Student Achievement Centers & Institutes Admission Admission _Local Global Folder Home Settings Academics AcceptedStudents Ambassadors belonghere you-belong-here CampusLife FinancialAid ConditionalAdmission ConnectWithUs EnEspanol springentry Stay4SMU SweetBriar Top10 Visit Waitlist Apply International Chinese Research Research _Local Road-to-R1 Centers-and-Institutes Key-Research-Areas Research-Administration FacultyGrants CampusLife CampusLife _Local Dallas ResidenceLife Dining HealthAndSafety SpiritTraditions Diversity-at-SMU ActivitiesOrganizations FitnessRecreation Sports SpiritualLife Virtual-Tour EnEspanol FAQLivingOnCampus FAQStudentLife Contact SMU 2019 Archives Home / News / Latest News 2019 News Archives SMU names new provost and vice president for academic affairs - Elizabeth Loboa will join SMU as provost and vice president for academic affairs on July 6, 2020. As chief academic officer for the University, she will be responsible for the overall quality of teaching, scholarship and research and all aspects of academic life, ranging from admissions and faculty development to supervision of SMU’s eight schools, library system, and international programs. (12/9/2019) Statement from President Turner regarding our relationship with the United Methodist Church - I would like to provide an update regarding our relationship with the United Methodist Church (UMC) in response to the ongoing debate over the future organizational structure of the Church. (12/6/2019) Wastewater leak in West Texas revealed - SMU Geophysicists say that evidence of leak occurring in a West Texas wastewater disposal well between 2007 and 2011 should raise concerns about the current potential for contaminated groundwater. (11/25/2019) Is West Texas sinking? - New NASA-funded research from SMU found a “…large swath of West Texas oil patch is heaving and sinking at alarming rates.” (11/25/2019) Owen Arts Center renovation kickoff inspires a new challenge - SMU’s Meadows School of the Arts paved the way toward the future of arts education with today’s kickoff of the Owen Arts Center renovation during SMU Homecoming Weekend. The $34 million initiative will improve academic spaces in the north wing for visual arts, art history and creative computation, while creating grand, welcoming and accessible exterior entrances. (11/22/2019) 2019 Distinguished Alumni Awards - Each year, SMU honors four outstanding leaders in philanthropy, business and civic life with the highest honor the University can bestow upon its graduates. (11/19/2019) Landmark $100 million gift to SMU from Moody Foundation to create separate graduate school, fuel significant research - SMU will take a major step forward in serving the talent and research needs of a challenging world, thanks to a landmark $100 million commitment from the Moody Foundation that will fund the University’s eighth degree-granting school – the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. (11/12/2019) High speed, high tech, high impact - Dallas entrepreneur, industry leader and educator Bobby B. Lyle ’67 builds on the farsighted generosity that named the Lyle School of Engineering 11 years ago by designating $10 million to power a new strategic vision for the school. (10/25/2019) Largest alumni gift in University history transforms business education - Carolyn L. and David B. Miller ’72, ’73 have made history with a $50 million gift to SMU. This unprecedented commitment will drive innovative education in SMU’s Edwin L. Cox School of Business. It also builds on the Millers’ decades-long support for academics, athletics, student scholarships and other areas to benefit generations of world changers. (10/18/2019) New SMU law clinic to focus on First Amendment issues - (10/16/2019) Still perfect: SMU erases 21-point deficit to beat Tulsa in triple overtime, remain undefeated - (10/10/2019) Transforming the future of arts education - A $5 million gift from Dallas art collectors and patrons Nancy C. and Richard R. Rogers extends their long-standing support of artists by establishing a vibrant hub for the visual arts at SMU. (10/9/2019) SMU Dedman Law announces student-led innovative mental health and wellness program - (10/7/2019) SMU researcher, Garland students use smartphones to monitor bridge safety - By gathering information from smartphones in passing cars, an SMU professor and students aim to check the bridge’s structural health. (9/24/2019) SMU paleontology grad named one of the AAAS IF/THEN ambassadors - The ambassadors are encouraged to share their stories of being women innovators, in hopes it inspires the next generation of women to get into science, technology, engineering and math [STEM]. (9/24/2019) SMU Mourns Legendary T. Boone Pickens - SMU mourns the loss of legendary Texas oil and gas magnate and entrepreneur T. Boone Pickens, who died September 11, 2019 at the age of 91. (9/11/2019) SMU welcomes a Boulevard game changer - New Indoor Performance Center features Armstrong Fieldhouse (9/4/2019) DART station renamed SMU/Mockingbird Station - Agreement underscores busy rail station’s proximity to campus neighbor (8/29/2019) Malcolm Gladwell Discusses New Book at SMU - Talking to Strangers examines why interactions with strangers often go wrong and how to make them go right (8/19/2019) SMU Remembers Visionary Patriot H. Ross Perot - The SMU community mourns the loss of H. Ross Perot, who died July 9 at the age of 89. (7/10/2019) SMU Dedman Law’s Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation gift amplifies law research and innovation - Additional $2 million dollar gift expands endowment and current operational funding (6/21/2019) A gift from the heart - Bromberg bequest inspired by lifelong interests in art, the law and education (6/20/2019) 31,000-Year-Old DNA Reveals New Ethnic Group - An international team of researchers, including SMU anthropologist David Meltzer, discovered a new group of ancient Siberians. The research was published June 5, 2019 as a story in Nature. (6/11/2019) SMU Cox honors alumni business success - The SMU Cox School of Business honored four alumni at the school’s annual Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards Luncheon on May 10. Two Distinguished Alumni Awards and two Outstanding Young Alumni Awards were presented at the luncheon ceremony in the Collins Executive Center on the SMU campus. (5/15/2019) SMU presents honorary degrees to McAlester and Ulukaya - SMU will present honorary degrees to Dallas historic preservationist Virginia McAlester and Chobani yogurt founder Hamdi Ulukaya at the University’s Commencement Convocation at 9 a.m. Saturday, May 18, at Moody Coliseum. (5/6/2019) SMU Remembers Former OU President William Banowsky. - “He was one of the most dynamic individuals that I have ever known,” said R. Gerald Turner, president of Southern Methodist University in Dallas. Turner considered Banowsky a close colleague. The two worked together at Pepperdine University and OU. (5/3/2019) SMU remembers Robert Lee Zollars ’72 - Robert “Bob” L. Zollars of Dallas, Texas, longtime SMU supporter and co-founder, chairman and CEO of Huitt-Zollars, Inc., died April 20, 2019. (4/29/2019) Transforming the future of arts education - A $5 million gift from Dallas art collectors and patrons Nancy C. and Richard R. Rogers extends their long-standing support of artists by establishing a vibrant hub for the visual arts at SMU. (4/29/2019) 3 SMU deans reappointed to 5-year terms - The academic deans leading SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering, Dedman School of Law and Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences have been reappointed to serve in their positions for an additional five years. (4/25/2019) Preston Hollow People: What Did Scientists Learn From First Black Hole Photo? - Park Cities People and Preston Hollow People journalist Bianca R. Montes interviewed Joel Meyers, an assistant professor of physics at SMU, to make sense of what scientists learned from the first-ever image of a black hole, which was revealed by the Event Horizon Telescope last Wednesday. (4/22/2019) SMU physicist Jodi Cooley will receive the 2019 Klopsteg Memorial Lecture Award - The award, given by the American Association of Physics Teachers (AAPT), recognizes educators who have made notable and creative contributions to the teaching of physics. (4/22/2019) SMU Remembers Forrest Gregg ’55 - SMU football player, NFL Hall-of-Famer, coach and administrator Forrest Gregg died April 12, 2019. (4/12/2019) Doug Parker Featured Speaker at SMU’s May Commencement - Doug Parker, chairman and chief executive officer of American Airlines Group Inc. and its subsidiary, American Airlines, will be the featured speaker during SMU’s May Commencement Convocation at 9 a.m. Saturday, May 18, in Moody Coliseum. (4/11/2019) Maguire Energy Institute honored three oil industry leaders - The Maguire Energy Institute at SMU Cox School of Business honored three oil industry leaders with awards April 10. (4/11/2019) Hart Gift to Benefit U.S. Marine Corps Vets - Military veterans aspiring to SMU’s innovative graduate education in engineering and business have a new scholarship opportunity with The Milledge A. Hart, III Scholarship Fund for Veterans of the United States Marine Corps. (4/10/2019) New Texas Dinosaur Identified by SMU Scientists - There’s a new Texas dinosaur on the books. SMU postdoctoral fellow Kate Andrzejewski, with University paleontologists Dale Winkler and Louis Jacobs, have identified Convolosaurus marri from fossils collected at Proctor Lake, southwest of Fort Worth. (4/8/2019) Statement from President Turner regarding UMC vote - The United Methodist Church voted on Tuesday, February 26, at a special session of the General Conference to accept the Traditional Plan, which will exclude the ordination of LGBTQ clergy and the marriage of same-sex persons. (2/27/2019) SMU Mourns the Death of Business Leader Gene H. Bishop - Longtime SMU supporter, former member of the SMU Board of Trustees and civic leader Gene H. Bishop died Friday, February 22. His legacy of financial leadership, business savvy and community service helped drive Dallas’ dynamic growth for more than half a century. (2/22/2019) SMU Breaking ground on new home for digital explorers - SMU takes a giant leap forward in the rapidly shifting digital frontier with today’s groundbreaking of the Gerald J. Ford Hall for Research and Innovation. The new 50,000-square-foot interdisciplinary research hub will equip faculty, students and industry partners with tools and resources to collaborate, solve complex problems and power new enterprises. (2/22/2019) President Turner statement regarding yearbook images - Important discussions have been taking place across the country in recent weeks regarding disturbing and offensive images and texts in college and university yearbooks. Such images, including of individuals in blackface, are stark historical reminders of the racism and bigotry that continue to challenge our nation today. (2/19/2019) Trump’s State of the Union Address: Touchy Topics and Words to Own - SMU experts are available to analyze political landmines and presidential goals in the runup to the Feb. 5 State of the Union address. (2/4/2019) Information on Catholic Diocese of Dallas Report - On Thursday, Jan. 31, the Catholic Diocese of Dallas released a list of priests with credible allegations of sexual abuse of minors since 1950. Two of the priests on the list were identified by the diocese as having been previously associated with Catholic Campus Ministry at SMU, which provides services for SMU students but is not part of the University. Neither were SMU employees. (2/1/2019) The Cultural Intelligence Initiative at SMU - A revolutionary approach in higher education to ensure that every member of the Southern Methodist University community is equipped with the skills and knowledge to manage and communicate effectively in complex cultural contexts. (1/30/2019) Latest Hart Gift Advances Technology, Innovation and Entrepreneurship at SMU - SMU’s ability to cultivate and launch entrepreneurs for North Texas and beyond received a major boost with a significant new gift from prominent Dallas business leaders and major SMU supporters Linda Wertheimer Hart ’65 and Milledge (Mitch) A. Hart, III. The Harts now are among SMU’s most generous donors. (1/25/2019) A New Year's Message From President Turner - Dr. King’s words continue to inspire us. As we begin each new year together, we celebrate SMU Dream Week to honor Dr. King’s lifetime of dedicated, persistent work and the values he championed – including individual dignity and worth, inclusion, civic participation, open dialogue and civil debate. These concepts are at the very core of SMU’s academic mission and a welcoming community, in which all are valued and able to pursue their goals and do their best work. (1/18/2019) SMU's MLK Unity Walk 2019 - In honor of the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., SMU will hold its annual campus Unity Walk at 6 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 23, to commemorate King’s core values – faith, education, nonviolence, love, leadership, community and hope. (1/18/2019) SMU History Professor Paves a Digital Path to the Past - SMU history professor Jo Guldi’s book, The History Manifesto, recently was named one of the most influential books of the past 20 years by the Chronicle of Higher Education. (1/17/2019) SMU December 2018 Graduation - The SMU December 2018 Graduation, held in Moody Coliseum on the SMU campus, included a concert by Imperial Brass, the commencement address by SMU Chair for the Board of Trustees Robert Dedman Jr. '80, '84 and the graduation of 581 students with doctorate, professional and baccalaureate degrees. (12/19/2018) New Psychological Study: Teaching People to Experience and Recognize Joy - Sometimes people lose the ability to experience or even recognize joy -- a type of depression called anhedonia. SMU psychology professors Alicia Merit and Thomas Ritz, working with a colleague at UCLA, are beginning to enroll patients in a study that focuses on re-teaching people to experience and identify joy. Their five-year project is funded by a $4 million grant from the National Institute of Mental Health. (11/28/2018) SMU-LIFT Literacy App Tied for Grand Prize in $7 Million XPRIZE Competition - A treasure-hunting smartphone app developed by SMU and Literacy Instruction for Texas (LIFT) to help low-literate adults learn to read tied for the grand prize Thursday in the competition hosted by the Barbara Bush Foundation Adult Literacy XPRIZE. News SMU Adventures SMU Faculty Experts SMU In The News Events Calendar Overheard @ SMU Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"