Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Student Life Admissions Alumni News and Events Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Advising Dual Degree students are assigned an individual faculty advisor on each campus in keeping with the existing practices of each institution. For descriptions of advising programs, please consult the individual websites of each college. In addition to the full range of resources at Brown and RISD, the Dual Degree program also has a full-time staff member dedicated to assisting students in developing their academic plans. The Brown|RISD Dual Degree Assistant Director and Advisor, Michele Zager (m[email protected] or [email protected]), also works jointly with both institutions on issues of relevance to students' academic and residential experiences. Students in the first and second year are also assigned a Brown|RISD Dual Degree Peer Advisor, and they have the option to continue working with a peer advisor in their third year. The Brown|RISD Dual Degree program is governed by a joint committee comprised of faculty and staff from both schools. The committee is chaired by Brown's Deputy Dean of the College for Curriculum & Co-Curriculum, Besenia Rodriguez ([email protected]), and RISD Vice Provost, Daniel Cavicchi ([email protected]). Within the Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program, students are provided advisors for the unique experiences of attending our two institutions. Faculty from both Brown and RISD advise the student through the developmental needs of each year, while a BRDD peer advising structure also extends support, advice, and camaraderie from students who know the Program firsthand. Across the span of their academic careers, BRDD students can also solicit the advice of deans, faculty, and administrators at both Brown and RISD. There are a myriad of resources! Because completion of the Dual Degree involves fulfilling the degree requirements for both Brown and RISD in an accelerated fashion, it is essential for students to work closely with their academic advisors on planning and scheduling issues from the very beginning of the Program. During their first year, students will be assigned a faculty advisor from the Experimental and Foundation Studies Program at RISD, a faculty advisor at Brown, and a Brown|RISD Dual Degree Peer Advising Family. In the middle of their second semester, students will make a "soft" declaration of their RISD major, which will afford them the resources of a student in this major but will not bind them to this decision. At the time of this soft declaration, students will be assigned a faculty advisor from their anticipated major, most often the Department Head. Students must solidify their RISD major in the spring of their second year. Students declare their Brown concentration in the fall of their third year, or Semester 5. After declaration at Brown, they will advised by a concentration advisor as well. Finally, in their final years, as students begin the work for their Capstone Requirement, they will choose two capstone advisors, one from each campus. Throughout their course of study in the Program, all Dual Degree students are also advised by the Dual Degree Assistant Director and Advisor. Advising within the Brown|RISD Dual Degree Program Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 RISD Foundation Advisor RISD Major Department Head or Faculty Advisor Brown Pre-Concentration Advisor Brown Concentration Advisor Meiklejohn Peer Advisor Brown | RISD Dual Degree Peer Advisors and Mentors Brown | RISD Dual Degree Assistant Director and Advisor BRDD Capstone Advisors BRDD Peer Advising Structure After their first year in the Program, students may apply to train and participate as Peer Advisors. Primarily, the Peer Advisors support first, second, and third-year Dual Degree students by offering advice and connecting them with campus resources. Peer Advisors also advocate the student voice to campus administrators, represent the Program on our campuses, and organize community events for all Dual Degree students across the academic years. Incoming first-year Dual Degree students are assigned a Peer Advising Family led by Peer Advisors in their second and third year of study and a Peer Mentor in their third or fourth year of study. Second-year Dual Degree students select a Peer Advisor for second-year students. Third-year Dual Degree students are advised by a team of Peer Advisors in their fourth or fifth year of study. BRDD Assistant Director and Advisor The BRDD Assistant Director and Advisor works jointly with Brown and RISD on both academic and non-academic issues that affect the Dual Degree student from the time of admission through graduation. The BRDD Advisor helps the student access resources on both campuses and works closely with each student to complete and revise a detailed Five-Year Plan. The BRDD Advisor facilitates communication and sharing of information across institutions, works on on-going programmatic issues, and works closely with the BRDD Peer Advisors. Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top