Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School MAD Conference 2017 Baylor>Baylor Law>About>Special Events>LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference>2017 | Making a Difference Conference MAD Conference 2017 Inaugural Making a Difference Conference Hosted by Baylor Law and LEAD Counsel 2:00 - 6:00 p.m., February 17, 2017 Jim Kronzer Appellate Advocacy Classroom & Courtroom, Room 127, Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive Waco, TX 76706 Purpose The purpose of this conference is to inspire law students and young lawyers to use their legal training to make meaningful contributions to their communities and to equip them to think critically and strategically about public service. The Leadership Engagement and Development (LEAD) Counsel hopes to inspire attendees with stories from those in the legal profession who have modeled exemplary public service. We also hope to equip law students and young lawyers for service in their communities. Attendees will gain practical advice and be given suggested action items that will enable them to develop a strategic plan for their future public service, whether serving on a non-profit board, running for office, lobbying for legislation, or testifying at the Capitol. This conference is open to the general public. Any interested person is welcome to attend. Baylor law students will receive dual professional and leadership development credits for attending the full conference.* This course has been approved for Minimum Continuing Legal Education credit by the State Bar of Texas Committee on MCLE in the amount of 2 credit hours, of which 2 credit hours will apply to legal ethics/professional responsibility credit. *If you are a non-Baylor law student but have a similar requirement for professional development at your institution, please email LEADCounsel@baylor.edu with the correct contact information at your law school. We will contact your school regarding credit for your attendance. Schedule of Events 2:00 - 2:30 p.m. Keynote Address The Importance of Community Involvement (How a Lawyer Can Lead) Senator Kirk Watson 2:35 - 3:05 p.m. Session 1: Run For It. Don’t just complain about problems in your community; do something about them Speakers: Chet Edwards, Former U.S. Congressman Councilman Dillon Meek, Member, Waco City Council Mayor Ken Shetter, Mayor of Burleson, Texas 3:05 - 3:15 p.m. Dr. Pepper Float Break 3:15 - 3:45 p.m. Session 2: Breaking the Code. How you can impact legislation during your legal career, and why you should want to Speakers: Joe. B. Allen, Attorney and Lobbyist (retired) Bill Miller, Lobbyist, HillCo Partners 3:50 - 4:20 p.m. Session 3: You Want to Help - Now What? Charting a path toward leadership roles in non-profit organizations Speakers: Ashley Allison, Director, Waco Foundation Abby Griffith, 1L at Baylor Law, Founder of Golden Door Foundation Berkley Knas, Alumni Relations, Baylor Law, Waco Civic Leader Leah W. Teague, Associate Dean, Baylor Law, Founder, LEAD Mentoring Program 4:25 - 4:45 p.m. Closing Panel: Roadblocks. What obstacles will you face when trying to get involved in the public sphere in your community, and how can you overcome them? 5:00 - 6:00 p.m. Dean's Reception Gibson Gayle Jr. and Uriel Dutton Reading Room 2nd Floor, Baylor Law Library The Dean’s Reception Honoring the Speakers is exclusively for the speakers and their guests, LEAD Counsel Members, and Leadership Development Program Participants. For information on how to join LEAD Counsel, please contact LEADCounsel@baylor.edu. For information on how to join the Leadership Development Program, please contact Stephen_Rispoli@baylor.edu. About the Speakers Keynote Speaker Kirk Watson State of Texas Senator, Senate District 14 Senator Kirk Watson graduated first in his class from Baylor Law. After clerking for a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, he worked at a law firm in Austin before starting his own firm. As a young lawyer, he served as the President of the Texas Young Lawyers Association and was named the Outstanding Young Lawyer of Texas. He served as Mayor of Austin from 1997 - 2001 and currently serves as the State Senator from Austin, representing Senate District 14, where he also works as a partner in litigation and business services at the law firm Husch Blackwell. Senator Watson has served the public throughout his career, most recently through his successful effort to establish the Dell Medical School in Austin. Today, he’s working to improve the community in Austin through his #10IN10ATX initiative. Session 1 Speakers Chet Edwards Former U.S. Congressman, House of Representatives District 17 In 28 years of public service, Chet Edwards has made a positive difference for Texas and the nation. As a Texas State Senator from 1983 - 1990, and as a U.S. Representative from 1991 - 2010, he earned the reputation of a bipartisan leader and champion of America’s military troops, veterans and their families. As a private citizen, he continues that service as a Board Member of the Military Child Education Coalition and as a Member of the Army National Cemeteries Advisory Commission, which is helping develop a long-term plan for the future of Arlington National Cemetery. Dillon Meek Council Member, Waco City Council An alumni of Baylor Law, Dillon Meek was elected to the Waco City Council on May 9, 2015 as the representative for District IV. He was elected as Mayor Pro Tem on May 17, 2016. Dillon serves as the general counsel of Rydell Holdings, a local investment company, and directs the operations of the real estate investment division of the company. Dillon is currently on the board of Unbound and the McLennan County Pack of Hope. Prior to joining Rydell Holdings, Dillon practiced law at Haley & Olson, P.C., where he primarily represented local governments and financial institutions. Ken Shetter Mayor, City of Burleson, Texas An alumni of Baylor Law, Ken Shetter currently serves as the Mayor for the City of Burleson, a position he was elected to in 2004. In addition to his public service, Mayor Shetter is the President of One Safe Place, a nonprofit organization focused on preventing crime and violence. Prior to leading One Safe Place, he practiced in the areas of general civil litigation and real estate transactions. Session 2 Speakers Joe B. Allen Attorney and Lobbyist (retired) Joe B. Allen graduated from Baylor in 1965 (B.A.) and Baylor Law in 1967. He practiced for eight years at Naman Howell Smith and Chase (Partner 1972-1975) where his principal client was the Urban Renewal Agency that acquired hundreds of acres in downtown Waco and some of what is now the Baylor campus. From 1975-2003, he practiced at Vinson & Elkins (Partner 1977-2003) in Houston, specializing in public finance, local government, special districts, lobbying and politics. He also served as Co-Chair of the Public Finance Section. In 2003, with 10 other VE lawyers, he formed Allen Boone Humphries Robinson LLP, where he served as Managing Partner. ABHR limits its practice to public finance and local government and is now the largest public finance firm in Texas. Allen was a practicing attorney who successfully lobbied the legislature for over 30 years on legislation affecting his clients and practice. During this time, he authored and lobbied the passage of major revisions to the Texas Water Code and other statutes related to local government. Allen retired December 31, 2012. ABHR honored him by establishing the Joe B. Allen Fund at Baylor Law to promote the study of local and state government. Bill Miller Lobbyist, HillCo Partners The Houston Press has voted Bill Miller "Best Lobbyist" twice. Texas Monthly magazine has twice named him one of the "25 Most Powerful People in Texas." Capitol Inside has named him as one of three persons who are "Lobby Legends - in a League of their Own." He is quoted extensively on politics in national publications such as the New Yorker, Vanity Fair and the New York Times along with Texas newspapers across the state. He is a founding partner of HillCo Partners, an Austin-based public affairs company that is the largest lobby firm in Texas. Session 3 Speakers Ashley Allison Director, Waco Foundation Ashley Allison is the executive director of the Waco Foundation, where she manages all aspects of a $76 million community foundation with the mission of improving the quality of life in McLennan County. During her career, she has raised over $25 million in grants and contributions for various community foundation efforts. Allison is a member of the Waco Business League, Waco Leadership Forum and Waco Rotary. Locally, she serves on the boards of the Greater Waco Chamber of Commerce and Today’s Action Tomorrow’s Leaders, and she is a member of the Prosper Waco Financial Security Steering Committee, Waco Foundation’s Capacity Building Advisory Council and the City Center Waco Organization and Policy Committee. Abby Griffith 1L at Baylor Law, Founder of Golden Door Foundation Abby Griffith is the founder of the Golden Door Foundation, a nonprofit organization which provides need-based scholarships for permanent residents applying for their U.S. citizenships. Funds distributed to scholarship recipients cover the cost of the application, as well as a civics course to prepare them for the interview process. Griffith has a B.A. from Boston University, and an M.A. from The George Washington University. She is currently a J.D. Candidate at Baylor Law. Berkley Knas Alumni Relations, Baylor Law Waco Community Leader Berkley Knas graduated from Baylor Law in 2010 and has been honored to lead the alumni relations department at Baylor Law for the past seven years. While a student at Baylor Law, Knas was the Executive President of the Student Bar Association and was heavily involved in Baylor Law’s Adopt-a-School partnership. She is an alumna of Leadership Waco and has served on the Board of Directors of the Junior League of Waco, the Baylor Scott & White Hillcrest Medical Center Ambassador Board, Baylor Round Table Board, Baylor Club Membership Council, the Kappa Alpha Theta Advisory Board and Waco Cotton Palace. Knas has mentored several high school students through the Greater Waco Chamber’s LEAD program and has served as a CASA advocate to six children. Leah W. Teague Associate Dean, Baylor Law Founder, LEAD Mentoring Program Leah W. Teague is Associate Dean and Professor of Law at Baylor Law. After graduating from Baylor Law, she worked for the law firm of Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC where she focused on business and tax law. She has been a member of the Baylor Law faculty for 27 years and the associate dean for 25 years. In addition to her administrative duties she currently teaches Tax and Financial Planning for Individuals and Small Business Owners, and Leadership Development. She writes and speaks on tax, non-profit, and leadership topics. About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School