Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Global Engagement Menu Main Nav Global Engagement Global Engagement Gateway Back Back Close About Overview Facts & Figures The Bridge Global News Global Engagement Committee Partnerships Overview COVID-19 Working Group SACRU SACRU Funding Opportinities SACRU Faculty Fellowship Expand Your World Overview BC in the World Formation, Reflection, & Service The World at BC Teaching Research COVID-19 Working Group Faculty Global Activity Visiting Scholars The Show @ 6 International Education Week International Assemblies Faculty Global Activity Events Global Engagement Gateway Summer Visiting Doctoral Research Fellowship Support Ukraine Related Links Student organizations Eagle Exchange Departments Related Links Student organizations Eagle Exchange Global Engagement Gateway Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Expand Your World Home Expand Your World Expand Your World BC in the World The World at BC Faculty Global Activity Events Global Engagement Gateway Summer Visiting Doctoral Research Fellowship Support Ukraine Expand your world; expand your mind. The best learning happens when we escape our comfort zones, seek out unfamiliar environments, and open ourselves up to different ways of thinking. At Boston College, we encourage students, faculty, and staff to broaden their world views by experiencing new cultures and countries. And we welcome visiting scholars and professors to bring fresh voices and perspectives to our campus discourse. Related Links Student organizations Eagle Exchange The World at BC The World is at your fingertips on BC's campus! Learn more BC in the World Learn more abut Boston College's engagement out in the world. Learn more Global Gateway What do I need to do before engaging internationally? Learn more Promoting Global Engagement The collaborative efforts of dedicated offices at Boston College expand the global understanding and engagement of students—be they “on the move” or remaining on campus for the duration of their studies. International Admissions Learn more Boston College, a university located in the Boston suburb of Chestnut Hill, is home to 1,751 international students. Boston College's 9,300 undergraduates come from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, leading to a vibrant and enriching campus atmosphere. Office of Global Education Learn more The mission of the Office of Global Education is to engage students in intellectually rigorous and personally transformative experiences that play an integral role in the teaching and learning that take place on campus. Office of International Students and Scholars Learn more The OISS provides advice, programs, and services to more than 2,600 international students (undergraduate, graduate, and exchange), faculty, and research scholars from over 90 countries. University Advancement Learn more The Office of University Advancement is proud to partner with dedicated campus colleagues and a global network of volunteers in engaging our loyal community of BC Alumni, Parents and Friends. Language Laboratory The Boston College Language Laboratory is committed to promoting and facilitating the acquisition and enhancement of language skills and cultural competency by providing the University community efficient access to an expanding collection of multimedia resources and instructional technology. Learn more McMullen Museum of Art The McMullen Museum aims to cultivate learning, celebrate artistic excellence, explore the visual traditions of diverse cultures, and inspire transdisciplinary faculty and student research based on the visual arts. The McMullen offers exhibition-related programs and resources for diverse audiences of all ages on campus, in the Greater Boston area, and beyond. Learn more Office for Institutional Diversity OID facilitates and supports the University’s diversity and inclusion efforts. By aligning its work with the University’s mission and goals, its objective is to help Boston College live out the social justice imperatives inherent in its Catholic and Jesuit heritage, create a wholesome and supportive learning and working environment for all, and take full advantage of the various strengths and talents of its students, faculty, and staff. Learn more Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center The Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center supports the undergraduate community—with a particular focus on AHANA (people of African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American descent), multicultural, multiracial, and OTE students—in navigating college life and fulfilling their potential. Learn more Volunteer and Service Learning Center The Volunteer and Service Learning Center is the primary portal for all service activity offered at Boston College, with a strong commitment to the Greater Boston community. We support the education and formation of our students by promoting conscientious service in the context of Catholic social teaching and contemporary Jesuit education. Learn more BC Dining Services Boston College Dining Services, whose employees represent 33 nations and speak over 14 languages, is proud to celebrate diversity and promote cultural heritage. It offers international dishes among its meal options and hosts regular showcase dinners with food from various countries and cultures. BC Dining partners with vendors and businesses that promote sustainability, fair trade, and job creation in developing countries. Learn more Back To Top Back To Top Office of Global Engagement 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Partnerships Expand Your World Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College