Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search News & Updates Home / News & Updates / Enhancements to Undergraduate Financial Aid Enhancements to Undergraduate Financial Aid Wednesday, April 27, 2022 Columbia College is pleased to announce several enhancements to financial aid for undergraduate students and families. These changes, which will support low and middle income Columbia College and Columbia Engineering students, are a key part of Columbia’s continued commitment to meeting the financial needs of students. “Our entire community is made stronger when we reduce economic barriers to accessing a Columbia education,” said Dean James J. Valentini. “Improving affordability and increasing financial support helps sustain a student body with diverse backgrounds and experiences so that students can learn as much from one another as they do from their professors.” Beginning in the 2022-2023 academic year, families with typical assets and incomes below $66,000 will not be expected to contribute to the cost of their student’s education. In addition, students from families with typical assets and incomes up to $150,000 will attend Columbia tuition-free. “These enhancements to our already-generous financial aid program will expand access for a new generation of Columbians, increasing opportunity for students who show the promise to thrive in our environment and the curiosity and commitment to take full advantage of all the possibilities we offer,” said Jessica Marinaccio, Dean of Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Aid. In addition, beginning in the summer of 2022, the College will offer new $2,000 start-up grants for low income first year students. These funds, made possible through a generous donor gift, are designed to help incoming students cover a portion of the cost associated with starting their undergraduate journey. Read more about Columbia University's commitment to undergraduate financial aid in their recent announcement regarding enhancements for the 2022-2023 academic year. Posted in: College Parents Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page