Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Trouble Ahead, or Good Times? Renowned experts give their assessments on markets, the economy, and geopolitics at the Carroll School’s annual Finance Conference The Big Ideas Missed the 15th annual Finance Conference? Hear firsthand from attendees about the day and the topics that stuck with them New Rankings Put Spotlight on the BC MBA Both the part-time and full-time MBA programs rise in the rankings, according to U.S. News & World Report Which Way, B-School Curriculum? There are now two competing paradigms of management education. Which one should we embrace? Dean Andy Boynton considers the question. Leading With Love Brandon P. Fleming extolled the importance of using personal success to uplift others at this year’s Brennan Symposium Making Real Estate Work for Everyone College students nationwide join in the fourth annual Corcoran case competition on affordable housing Global Ranking Keeps Carroll School in Good Company The school is 26th in the world for faculty research, according to the Financial Times Previous Play Pause Next Carroll School of Management Carroll School News » Read the Latest Insights From Carroll School Faculty Published in Top Academic Journals What Role can Managers Play in Preventing Employee Burnout? Heide Abelli Explains. Finance Tops the List of Most Popular Boston College Minors Matthew Fonte '94 Makes Crafting Ice Cream at Home Even Cooler with His Company ColdSnap Students Enter the Shark Tank » At the Strakosch Venture Competition, two sophomores walked off with the $10,000 prize for their startup, Split—a mobile app that pays for a group’s bill and gives each member 24 hours to pay their portion. Follow Us » Tweets by BCCarrollSchool All Students Research In the Media Faculty Awards Service Alumni Announcements Presentations More News & Notes “We want to create students who are broader, more imaginative, curious for life, great learners, understand what it is to be men and women for others and not just narrow management or technical experts. That’s what makes us distinct: the breadth, the broadening of students, and encouraging them to pursue their passions in the liberal arts while they pursue their passions in management.” Andy Boynton ’78, P’13, John and Linda Powers Family Dean Dean’s Message Carroll School at a Glance 11 Undergraduate Concentrations 128 Full-time Faculty 7 Academic Departments 8 Centers and Initiatives Experience Our Campus Community Quad in front of Fulton Hall (left) Fulton Hall Atrium Students participate in Prof. Mary Tripsas' lecture. Fulton Hall Honors Library Students in Prof. Jerry Kane's class. Students hear a talk in the Honors Library Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College