Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance You are here: Home Finance Topics Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration Managing a sponsored project at Columbia University involves closely adhering to a set of policies and procedures. On this page, you’ll find guidance for managing the post-award, financial lifecycle of sponsored projects, including: initiation and execution, transacting, financial reporting and monitoring, documenting personnel costs (effort reporting), receivables management, project closeout, and audit. Part of the Office of the Controller, Sponsored Projects Post-Award Financial Administration consists of Sponsored Projects Finance (SPF) and the Research Policy and Indirect Costs (RPIC) group. Learn more about these offices and their respective roles and responsibilities below. Common Tasks refresh icon Learn about the Sponsored Projects Lifecycle credit-card icon Transact on Sponsored Projects wpforms icon Find Guidance on Cost Transfers check icon Document Personnel Costs (Effort Reporting) percent icon Find Indirect Costs (F&A) and Fringe Benefit Rates gear icon Manage Receivables and Overruns search icon Find Policies Governing the Use of Sponsored Projects close icon Closeout a Project Sponsored Project Lifecycle Below are the stages of the lifecycle you will need to follow to manage the post-award, financial administration of your sponsored project. 1. Getting Started Get started on your project tasks by learning more about our Finance units, the sponsored project lifecycle, and reading the Sponsored Projects Handbook. Learn about Sponsored Projects Finance (SPF) Learn about Research Policy and Indirect Costs (RPIC) Learn about Sponsored Projects Administration (SPA) (website) Learn about the Sponsored Projects Lifecycle Read the Sponsored Projects Handbook (website) Visit Columbia Research (website) 2. Initiation and Execution Visit Sponsored Projects Administration (SPA) to learn about the initiation and execution of sponsored projects. Proposal Preparation (website) Subawards (website) Award Setup (website) Making Payments on Sponsored Projects 3. Transacting Learn how to manage transactions on sponsored projects, including salary distributions, purchase of goods and services, cost transfers, cost sharing and more. Salaries (Payroll) Goods and Services (Buying and Paying) Subawards (website) Service Centers and Recharge Centers (job aid) Service Center Manual (pdf) Graduate Research Assistant (GRA) Tuition Facilities and Administrative (F&A) Costs Cost Transfers (Salary and Non-Salary) Cost Sharing Payments to Human Subjects 4. Financial Reporting and Monitoring Learn how to satisfy financial reporting and monitoring obligations on sponsored projects. Available Reporting Systems Quarterly Financial Review Go to Monthly and Quarterly WebViewer Annual Expenditure Validation Documenting Personnel Costs (Effort Reporting) Budget Periods and Budget Variances Rebudgeting (website) Invoicing and Financial Reporting Interest Program Income 5. Documenting Personnel Costs (Effort Reporting) Learn how to document personnel costs and perform the certification of effort on sponsored projects. Log in to the Effort Certification and Reporting Technology (ECRT) System About Effort Reporting Policies Certification Process Cost Sharing Training Reference Guides Resources Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 6. Receivables Management Learn how to manage receivables on sponsored projects. Bill Types Net Receivables Reports Cash Applications Receivables Monitoring and Collections Cost Overruns Residual Balances 7. Closeout Learn how to reconcile and ensure the prompt closure of sponsored projects. Financial Closeout Reference Guide Expenditure Finalization and Validation Outbound Subaward Finalization Prepaid Vouchers and Petty Cash Integrating System Distributions Extensions (website) Major Equipment and Surplus Supplies Review Training Grants Carryovers Award Transfers (website) Project Closure 8. Audit Learn about records retention and audits on sponsored projects. Sponsored Projects Administration Policy on Records Retention (website) Audits Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close