Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Turn Up the Volume Block Party Events Past Event Turn Up the Volume Block Party Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 30, 2019 6:30 PM - 8:30 PM America/New_York Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 555 Show Map Join Columbia Health Sexual Violence Response and campus partners on Monday, September 30 at 6:30pm in Lerner Hall 5th Floor (555 & Satow), for the kick-off of “Turn Up the Volume,” a year-long campaign to amplify the voices and conversations of communities who have been left out of the discussion around sexual and gender-based violence. Let’s come together as a community, united by our commonalities and differences, and reinforce a sense of community. This will be the kick-off event for turning up the purple lights at Lerner to honor, celebrate and remember survivors, co-survivors, advocates, activists, educators, leaders, etc. Lerner will be lit in purple for the month of October, beginning Tuesday, Oct. 1st at 5:00PM. Celebrate the communities and ideas we will elevate throughout the year at this kick-off event with food, a DJ and more! Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response 212-854-3500 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close