Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dual Degree Programs by School / College You are here Home Academics Dual Degrees Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Beasley School of Law JD/LLM in Taxation Understand the most complex issues of tax law. Gain a strong foundation in tax law, including estate and benefit taxes. Learn more aout the JD/LLM dual degree. JD/LLM in Transnational Law Harness the global legal marketplace and prepare for the world of international law used by intellectual proprietors, multinational corporations and online entities. This program requires a semester abroad in order for students to take compare the details of different legal systems. Learn more about the JD/LLM dual degree. Beasley School of Law / Fox School of Business JD/MBA in Law/Business Administration Earn a joint JD/MBA degree. Opt for a three-year program if you have a moderate background in business or economics; choose the four-year program if you are new to law and business. Learn more about the JD/MBA dual degree. College of Public Health / Other Schools and Colleges DMD/MPH in Dentistry/Public Health Combine a degree in Dentistry with a rigorous Public Health education. This interwoven program adds just one year to the medical school experience: you’ll spend your first year in the College of Public Health before matriculating into the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Gain fieldwork experience to apply your clinical and theoretical knowledge in a professional setting. Learn more about the DMD/MPH dual degree. JD/MPH in Law/Public Health Increase your knowledge of the natural and social sciences while preparing to make positive change in the legal system. Learn more about the JD/MPH dual degree. JD/MSW in Law/Social Work Prepare to impact the legal system positively through public interest and public policy work. Learn more about the JD/MSW dual degree. MD/MPH in Medicine/Public Health Earn a master’s degree in Public Health while becoming a physician. The MPH degree enables MDs to better understand the social and environmental factors that influence healthcare and the patient experience. Learn more about the MD/MPH dual degree. MPH/DPM in Public Health/Podiatric Medicine Combine a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine degree with a Master of Public Health degree. Earned full time in the midst of podiatric studies, the MPH helps students understand the social and environmental factors that influence healthcare and patient experiences. Learn more about the MPH/DPM dual degree. MPP/MPH in Public Policy/Public Health Train as a public health professional with additional expertise in public policy. Learn how to manage public sector and nonprofit organizations and how to operate successfully within a political environment as a public health professional. You’ll be able to complete both degrees in a total of three years. Learn more about the MPP/MPH dual degree. MSHI/MPH in Health Informatics/Public Health Train as a public health professional with additional expertise in health informatics. Learn to assess, develop and implement public health programs. Gain a deeper understanding of health data systems and processes to improve population health outcomes. Both degrees can be completed in three years. Learn more about the MSHI/MPH dual degree. Please note this degree program is housed solely within the College of Public Health. MSW/MPH in Social Work/Public Health Assess and address the concerns of underserved populations with a dual degree that combines the physical, psychological and social indicators of positive health. Future administrators, clinicians, educators and policy makers gain distinct knowledge and experience fieldwork for both disciplines in the region. Learn more about the MSW/MPH dual degree. Please note this degree program is housed solely within the College of Public Health. Lewis Katz School of Medicine DPT/MA Urban Bioethics Enhance your understanding of patient care by combining the Doctor of Physical Therapy with the MA in Urban Bioethics. Learn the skills of physical therapy and strategies for improving patient care in environments that are dense, diverse and marked by disparities in health. Learn more about the DPT/MA dual degree. MA Urban Bioethics/MA Sociology Apply sociological and ethical critical thinking to issues at the intersection of medicine and society by earning a dual degree in Urban Bioethics and Sociology. Learn more about the MA/MA dual degree. MD/PhD in Biomedical Sciences Combine the Doctor of Medicine program with a PhD degree in Biomedical Sciences. This joint degree program is ideal for future physicians specifically interested in researching the processes and systems of the human body. Learn more about the MD/PhD dual degree. MD/PhD in Biomedical Sciences, Cancer Biology and Genetics Specialization Combine the Doctor of Medicine program with a doctoral degree in Biomedical Sciences, and specialize in cancer biology and genetics over the course of seven to eight years of study. This translational program is ideal for future physicians and scientists interested in doing research in the fields of cancer biology and genetics. Learn more about the MD/PhD dual degree. MD/PhD in Biomedical Sciences, Infectious Disease and Immunity Specialization Earn a dual degree that integrates a Doctor of Medicine program with a doctoral degree in Biomedical Sciences and a specialization in infectious disease and immunity. Over the course of seven to eight years, you’ll complement clinical work in medicine with a thesis project and coursework for the PhD. This translational program is ideal for future physicians and scientists interested in doing research in the areas of infectious disease and immunity. Learn more about the MD/PhD dual degree. MD/PhD in Biomedical Sciences, Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Specialization Combine the Doctor of Medicine program with a doctoral degree in Biomedical Sciences and a specialization in molecular and cellular biosciences. Over the course of seven to eight years, you will complement clinical work in medicine with a thesis project and coursework for the PhD. This translational program is ideal for future physicians and scientists who want to delve into research in molecular and cellular biosciences. Learn more about the MD/PhD dual degree. MD/PhD in Biomedical Sciences, Neuroscience Specialization Train to be a physician and gain a PhD specializing in neuroscience. Over the course of seven to eight years, you will complement clinical work in medicine with a thesis project and coursework for the PhD. This dual degree is well-suited for future physicians and scientists interested in doing research that focuses on the development of effective treatments for neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders. Learn more about the MD/PhD dual degree. MD/PhD in Biomedical Sciences, Organ Systems and Translational Medicine Specialization Pursue a Doctor of Medicine degree combined with a doctorate in Biomedical Sciences. The MD/PhD program is ideally suited for future physicians and scientists who want to research organ systems and explore the burgeoning field of translational medicine. Over the course of seven to eight years, you’ll benefit from an interdisciplinary approach in both the lab and the classroom. This program highly encourages collaboration between clinical and basic scientists. Learn more about the MD/PhD dual degree. MD/MA in Medicine/Urban Bioethics Combine the classic physician preparation program with advanced training in urban bioethics. Learn about how social and structural forces influence health and health care. Learn more about the MD/MA dual degree. PhD or MA Philosophy/MA Urban Bioethics Study the philosophical underpinnings of contemporary bioethics while receiving training in the ethics and values of healthcare in our multi-dimensionally diverse society by completing a dual PhD or MA in Philosophy and a MA in Urban Bioethics. Learn more about the PhD or MA/MA dual degree. Lewis Katz School of Medicine / Fox School of Business MD/MBA in Medicine/Business Administration Take a dual-degree program without an extra year in school. Enroll in online courses to complete the Master of Business Administration degree, and enrich your understanding of the business atmosphere of modern medicine. Learn more about the MD/MBA dual degree. School of Theater, Film and Media Arts MFA/PhD in Documentary Arts and Visual Research Integrate production and theory to pursue doctoral-level research that builds on an MFA in film or media arts. Create work that moves fluidly between creative and critical approaches to images and the stories they tell in this interdisciplinary program. Learn more about the MFA/PhD dual degree. Go back to AcademicsMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.