Skip To Main Content www.research.iastate.edu Open Search Box View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Open Mobile Menu View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel For Researchers For Researchers > Ethics, Integrity, and Other Research Success Services Ethics, Integrity, and Other Research Success Services Keeping your research on track The Office of the Vice President for Research oversees several service units focused on providing you with the support to ensure the integrity and success of your research. The Office of Research Ethics is your single source of contact – a “one-stop-shop,” if you will – for assistance in the various ethics and compliance aspects involved in successfully executing your research, including: Human-subjects research – Institutional Review Board (IRB) Research and teaching involving animals – Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Biohazards – Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Radiation – Radiation Safety Committee (RSC) Conflicts of Interest and Commitment International Collaborations Unmanned Aircraft Systems Research Integrity and Other Resources These additional OVPR service units provide vital support, depending on the nature of your research: The Office of Biotechnology can connect you with a broad range of biotech services, instrumentation and faculty with similar or complementary research interests. The Attending Veterinarian can help you design your study to assure best care is provided every animal used in your research. Laboratory Animal Resources will work with you to provide care and housing for animals used in your research. Resources Research Funding Support, Award Management, and Technology Transfer Finding Funding Creating a Proposal Submitting a Proposal Upon Receiving an Award Managing an Award Research Support Services Grant Writing Support Facilities & Administrative Costs Sponsored Funding Award Reports Award Management FAQs Ethics, Integrity, and Other Research Success Services Policies and Guidelines Plagiarism Checker Software Center and Institute Guidelines Principal Investigator Eligibility Guidelines Board of Regents Nepotism Policy Use of Amazon Mechanical Turk® in Iowa State University Research Additional Resources for Research Data Iowa State University 2610 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, Iowa 50011 E. vpr@iastate.edu P. 515-294-6344 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.