Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Undergraduate Financial Aid Boston College remains committed to admitting students solely on the basis of their academic and personal accomplishments, and without regard to financial need. Boston College makes every effort to supplement family resources for students who require financial assistance. All Boston College grants and scholarships awarded by the Office of Student Services are awarded on the basis of institutional need. Boston College is committed meeting the full demonstrated institutional need of every student applying for financial aid. We know that applying for financial aid can be a confusing and lengthy process. We hope that the resources provided on this site will give you and your family the tools and information necessary to help make a Boston College education possible. The financial aid staff is committed to working with you as you navigate this process. All financial aid awarded by Student Services at Boston College is need-based. What is need-based aid? Need-based aid assumes that the parents and the student are responsible for the cost of education to the extent of their abilities and that financial aid will be used to supplement the effort of the family. It also assumes that need can be calculated with uniformity and equity, meaning that income and assets are defined in the same way for everyone and all allowances are nondiscretionary in nature. Boston College is committed to providing information in a manner that is accessible to all. If you are in need of a printed copy of the material presented on this web page, please contact the Office of Student Services. Financial Aid Forms Contact the Office of Student Services How Aid Eligibility Is Determined Boston College uses two separate aid formulas to determine eligibility for financial assistance. Federal Methodology Federal Methodology is used to determine a student’s eligibility for all federal and state aid, including the Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans. Eligibility is determined from the data provided on the Free Application of Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Boston College does not use the federal expected family contribution (EFC) determined by the FAFSA to award institutional need-based grants/scholarships. Institutional Methodology Institutional Methodology is used by Boston College, as well as many other private universities, to determine a family’s eligibility for university funds. Boston College is committed to providing funds to meet the full demonstrated institutional need of every student applying for financial aid on time. The institutional expected family contribution is determined by the data provided on the Profile form (through College Scholarship Services) and appropriate tax documents. Eligibility for need-based institutional aid requires that the student be fully eligible for federal and state aid. The Profile is not required to determine eligibility for federal and state aid. Financial aid awards for future years will be based on the application materials for that year. In general, the family contribution will not change dramatically unless there is a change in income, family size, number of children enrolled in undergraduate education, assets, or other application figures used in the analysis of a family's financial strength. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College