Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Webcams HOME About BC Campuses, Maps & Directions Webcams In 1991, researchers in a University of Cambridge computer laboratory sought a solution to a very practical question—was there coffee in the Trojan Room, which housed the only coffee pot in the building? They pointed a video camera at the pot, wired it to their network, and created the world’s first webcam. On May 16, 2003, Boston College launched its first two webcams, offering views of the Gasson Quadrangle and the plaza in front of O’Neill Library. Within four days, the webcams recorded 4,350 visits. The current campus locations on view are typically viewed more than 65,000 times a month. Thomas More Apartments Located at the corner of Commonwealth Avenue and St. Thomas More Road (the former site of More Hall), the Thomas More Apartments opened its doors in 2016. The 490-bed residence hall is a mix of four- and six-bedroom apartments, seminar spaces, music practice rooms, and the University Health Services Center. Gasson Quad Located on the south face of the Gasson Hall tower, this webcam looks across Gasson Quad, with views of Fulton Hall, home to the Carroll School of Management (center), and Devlin Hall, which houses the Office of Undergraduate Admission (left). The Plaza in Front of O'Neill Library Lying on the main path between the Lower Campus, where most upperclassmen live, and McElroy Commons, a center of student activity, the plaza in front of O'Neill Library is the crossroads of the University. This camera is mounted on the roof above the entrance to O'Neill Library, which was dedicated in 1984 with a speech by its namesake, then-Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill, Jr. '36. Visible at the left, across the wide steps, is Devlin Hall. To the right is Gasson Hall, Boston College's signature structure and the first building to be erected (1913) on what had been a 36-acre gentleman's farm. Margot Connell Recreation Center This 244,000 square-foot, four-story recreation center, which replaced the Flynn Recreation Complex, officially opened on July 9, 2019, on the former site of Edmond's Hall on Thomas More Road. It includes a state-of-the-art fitness center, jogging track, natatorium with lap and instructional pools, four wood-floor basketball courts, three tennis courts, two multi-activity courts and multi-purpose rooms for spin, yoga and fitness classes, among other amenities. The building is named in honor of Margot Connell—a trustee associate, honorary degree recipient, mother of six Boston College graduates, and one of the University's most generous benefactors. Stokes Hall Mounted on the roof of Carney Hall on Middle Campus, this webcam looks northwest across the Campus Green to Stokes Hall, the 183,000-square-foot academic building that opened in January 2013. The L-shaped facility houses the classical studies, English, history, philosophy, and theology departments, the College of Arts & Sciences Honors Program, the Academic Advising Center, and First Year Experience offices, as well as 36 classrooms, a commons area, coffee shop, and conference rooms. Boston Skyline This view from the top of the Merkert Chemistry Center takes in the 135-acre Chestnut Hill Reservoir and the skyscrapers of downtown Boston, just six miles away. Linked to downtown by a trolley stop beside the campus, Boston College is also connected to its namesake city by student jobs and internships in the finance, medicine, education, law, communications, arts, and social services sectors; by the University’s sponsorship of service programs in Boston neighborhoods; and by Boston’s cultural institutions, which constitute a vast resource for students, faculty, and visitors. St. Mary's Hall A webcam perched on O'Neill Library captures the south side of St. Mary's Hall, the second building erected on the Chestnut Hill Campus. The Collegiate-Gothic structure, which recently underwent a two-year renovation, houses the communication and computer science departments and the Woods College of Advancing Studies in the refurbished south wing, facing O'Neill Plaza. St. Mary's Chapel is located on the first floor of the building's north end. Members of the Boston College Jesuit community reside on the second, third, and fourth floors. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College