Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Family Resources Family Resources: Brown Policies & Resources Graduate School Skip to Navigation Family Resources: Brown Policies & Resources Policies at Brown vary according to your status as either a graduate student or postdoctoral appointee. While we have provided some links to policies that could pertain to parents, you are encouraged to speak to someone in human resources for further information. Parental Relief Policy Graduate students in good or satisfactory academic standing who are supported by a stipend are eligible for parental relief for the care of a newly born infant or adopted child under 16 years of age. Doctoral students beyond year 6 are not eligible for parental relief. Graduate students may request parental relief up to two times during their tenure as a student at Brown. The relief provides a stipend for one semester or a summer. See the full policy (found in the Graduate School Handbook on page 45-47) Application (available in UFunds under Graduate Student Leave and Accommodations) Child Care Subsidy Brown University’s Child Care Subsidy helps pay for child care expenses for degree-seeking students by granting awards of up to $5,000 per year, per child (up to 3 children) for those whose total household adjusted gross income is less than or equal to $100,000 per year. The Subsidy covers child care for dependents between the ages of 0 to 6 and will vary from family to family and year to year depending on a family's financial need and a range of other factors. The subsidy helps you explore options and find creative solutions to some of the child care challenges you may face. Health Insurance Coverage for Dependents Graduate students supported by a stipend are eligible to receive a subsidy of 75% to enroll dependents in the Student Health Insurance Plan. Eligible dependents include a legal spouse or domestic partner, children up to the age of 26, or a newborn infant born while the student is covered by SHIP. A spouse or partner is generally expected to be living with the covered student in order to be eligible for coverage. Please note that dependent coverage is available only to students also insured by the Student Health Insurance Plan. Dependent coverage expires concurrently with that of the insured student. The enrollment deadline to add a child dependent is August 1 unless there is an approved qualifying event. For the 2019-2020 Student Health Insurance Plan, the premium balance after the 75% subsidy is $1,011.75 for one child or $2,023.50 for two or more children. For students who enroll a spouse, the premium balance after the subsidy is $1,011.75, a spouse/domestic partner in addition to one or more children, the balance is $2023.50 Installment payment plan options are available through Gallagher Student Health and are detailed on the enrollment form. Academic-year coverage is effective from August 15, 2020 to August 14, 2021. 2020-2021 Brown University Graduate Student Dependent Health Insurance Enrollment Form Email completed forms to [email protected]. Dental Insurance Coverage for Dependents Dependents of graduate students may be enrolled in Delta Dental coverage at an additional cost. Eligible dependents include a legal spouse or domestic partner, children up to the age of 26, or a child born while the graduate student is covered by the Delta Dental plan. A spouse or partner is generally expected to be living with the covered student in order to be eligible for coverage. Students who receive dental coverage through their financial support packages from the University are eligible to receive a 75% subsidy on the annual premium cost of enrolling a dependent. 2020-2021 Brown University Graduate Student Delta Dental Insurance Enrollment Form Email completed form to [email protected]. Lactation Rooms on Campus Locations are available by reservation for Brown faculty, staff and students. You will need to provide your own pump, adapter, and accessories as well as a small cooler or insulated bag. Resources & Privleges for Family Members Spouses and children of graduate students are elible for some Brown benefits including health insurance and a discounted gym membership. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender The SDWC offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community, and is a site for research into and exploration of gender issues that extend into and beyond the classroom. Back to Family Resources home page. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Child Care Subsidy NIH Policies Related to Parental Leave and Childcare Day Care Resources Community Resources Women's Resources Health & Medical Resources Family Leave Schools Family Activities Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants