Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of World Languages and Literatures About Programs Languages People Study Abroad Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Resources Language Media Center Language Clubs and Tables Language Exchange Program Language Placement/Credit Tutoring Take Action Events Student Resources Newsletter Contact Us! Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of World Languages and Literatures Student Resources Student Resources Language Media Center Jones Hall 220 Hours of Operation: The Language Media Center is open during the Fall and Spring semesters when classes are in session, Monday through Thursday, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., and Friday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Language Placement and Credit Placement Testing Information Students may take the language placement test for French, German, Russian, and Spanish in the Language Media Center on a walk-in basis when it is open (see Hours of Operation above). The latest a student may start the test in the LMC is 2 p.m. (1 p.m. on Fridays). The placement test is computer-based and multiple-choice, and covers basic vocabulary, grammar, and reading knowledge. Students receive their results immediately, and if needed can receive a permit right away. The test takes approximately 30-40 minutes to complete. During New Student Orientation in the summer, students may take the placement test for French, German or Spanish in Jones Hall 108 (the main department office) between 8 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Students may also email wll@memphis.edu to set up the placement test if they are unable to come to campus. For placement in other languages, please email wll@memphis.edu and we will be happy to refer you to the appropriate person. Credit by Examination The department does not normally award credit by examination for languages taught in the department. Students with competency in languages not taught in the department may be able to take a credit by examination exam through the FLATS program run by Brigham Young University, for which our department is an approved proctor. More information can be found at: https://flats.byu.edu/. The department can also proctor exams offered by New York University: https://www.sps.nyu.edu/professional-pathways/proficiency-testing.html. The University of Memphis does offer the CLEP exam through the Testing Center. This exam allows student the option for credit by examination in French, German, and Spanish. More information on our Language Placement/Credit page. Questions? Email us at wll@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.