Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Faculty Senate Faculty Senate right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Chair & Cabinet Senators Committees right arrow down arrow Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Get Involved right arrow down arrow Meeting Calendar Contact Home » Employees » Faculty Senate » About Us » Chair & Cabinet Set Navigation title in component Chair & Cabinet Senators Faculty Chair & Cabinet Dear Faculty, Without the faculty, the university and its mission of creating, assessing, and spreading knowledge would cease to exist. Faculty Senate represents the voice of the faculty, advising the Administration on issues related to teaching and research to ensure that those endeavors are carried out in rigorous, thoughtful, inclusive, and creative ways. We enact this “shared governance” through electing representatives to Senate, Senate Committees, and All-University Committees who meet regularly to deliberate over a wide range of issues in the life of the university. Your responsibility as a faculty member is to participate by keeping abreast of issues which affect faculty, electing capable faculty to represent your interests, and serving in governance roles which benefit your unit, your college, and the university. If we as faculty do not make our voices heard, the decisions of the university will proceed without us, and the quality of education and research for the good of our students and our society will suffer. There was never a time when this was unimportant, but now more than ever, when the university must examine its priorities to ensure its future, the faculty voice is crucial. I invite you to join us in the important work of faculty governance. Look for regular communication from us regarding a variety of opportunities, events and issues and explore more information on the mechanics and history of Faculty Senate. Please reach out to learn more about how you can be involved with Faculty Senate and how we can to assist you in your endeavors. Sincerely, Gregory D. Loving (Social Sciences, Clermont College) Chair, UC Faculty and Faculty Senate (2020-2022) greg.loving@uc.edu Faculty Senate Cabinet Title Name Contact Chair Greg Loving greg.loving@uc.edu Vice Chair Tamika Odum tamika.odum@uc.edu Chair Elect Dan Carl carldl@ucmail.uc.edu Secretary Louis 'Tres' Kutcher kutchel@ucmail.uc.edu Parliamentarian Sheri Barksdale sheri.barksdale@uc.edu Board of Trustees Rep Peter Disimile peter.disimile@uc.edu Board of Trustees Rep Rebecca Leugers leugerrc@ucmail.uc.edu Chair, Academic Affairs Tina Stanton-Chapman tina.stanton@uc.edu Chair, Budget & Priorities Dan Carl carldl@ucmail.uc.edu Chair, Committee on Committees Arlene Johnson arlene.johnson@uc.edu Chair, Governance Rich Miller richard.miller@uc.edu Chair, Human Relations Brian Metcalf brian.metcalf@uc.edu Chair, Information Technology Binny Samuel samuelby@ucmail.uc.edu Chair, Planning Alison Weiss alison.weiss@uc.edu Chair, Research & Scholarship Jennifer Wright-Berryman wrigh2jb@ucmail.uc.edu 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top