Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Academics Graduate &amp Graduate and Professional Education Explore UCLA’s master’s and doctoral degree programs offered in 120+ academic and professional fields of study. UCLA’s graduate programs have a reputation for producing professionals, researchers and leaders who have a major impact on the world. With more than 40 programs ranked among the best in the nation, UCLA gives today’s graduate students the cutting-edge resources and mentorship they need to go out and leave their own indelible mark. And with the second largest city in the U.S. in our backyard, learning extends beyond the classroom. Engaging with the community while being part of an academic system that is well connected and respected throughout the world creates an educational experience that cannot be replicated anywhere else. Top 10 More than 40 of UCLA’s graduate programs ranked in the top 10 nationally, including art, psychology, math, history, sociology and English. All Graduate Programs Influential Faculty UCLA faculty members and researchers are among the most often cited in the world. Among our 7,790 faculty are Nobel Prize winners, MacArthur Fellows and recipients of the Fields Medal and Turing Award. Graduate students are given every opportunity to work closely with the decorated faculty here. Terence Tao Fields Medal-winning math professor Terence Tao Jennifer Jay Environmental engineering professor Jennifer Jay Neil Garg Chemistry professor Neil Garg Support for Research UCLA graduate and professional students take on thousands of original research projects every year, working as part of a team or independently. Their research may create scientific and medical advances, address urgent societal problems or deepen understanding of arts and cultures. $1 Billion UCLA receives more than $1 billion in research funding each year, which funds 5,500 research proposals. Interdisciplinary Study UCLA graduate and professional scholars have long collaborated across the boundaries of their respective academic fields in the pursuit of discoveries and solutions that don’t always fit neatly in one box or the other. Dozens of research centers and institutes foster interdisciplinary research as well. And Organized Research Units (ORUs) are created for the purpose of bridging the gaps between traditional disciplinary boundaries. Wherever you look around campus, collaboration is happening both organically and as a result of these concerted efforts to bring more than one school of thought under the same roof. Research Across Campus Graduate Study in Los Angeles Experience the professional world in a global city like no other. Los Angeles is teeming with variety, energy and industry. The best of food, arts, culture, sports and entertainment are right outside your door at UCLA. The economies of Los Angeles and California are among the world’s most dynamic: If California were a country, it would have the fifth largest economy in the world, behind Germany and ahead of India. Graduate Students We welcome students from over 90 countries. UCLA is dedicated to offering support to the students from abroad who make up over 20 percent of our graduate community of 13,000 scholars. For applicants and entering students, financial support funds are provided to graduate students in many forms: grants, fellowships, traineeships, teaching assistantships and graduate student researcher appointments. Support based solely on need is also provided, in the form of work-study and loans, through the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office. Graduate programs at UCLA also offer employment opportunities to graduate students, including teaching and research assistantships. Financial Aid & Finances Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept