Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Staff Senate Employee Emergency Fund Application The Employee Emergency Fund is a program to assist employees who are experiencing times of financial hardship due to unexpected, unforeseen, and unavoidable circumstances, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, that can create financial hardship. Any Clemson University employee, staff or faculty, is eligible to apply for a grant from this fund that has been established through the Clemson University Foundation. Before applying, employees should be aware of the following: Employees approved for funding will receive $250. Employees may apply for funding no more than once during a 90-day period; funding is not guaranteed. Employees may receive a maximum of $500 in a calendar year (January – December). Employees must document on their application expenses for which they will use the funds. Eligible expenses include food, rent/mortgage, health care, dependent care, and home repairs. Other expenses may be considered. Applicants will receive notification of the outcome of their application within two weeks of the date of their application. Employees of a third-party contractor who provides services to Clemson University are not eligible. Individuals who are classified as a student employee (graduate or undergraduate) are not eligible for this fund and should apply for assistance through the Student Emergency Fund. Please be assured that all personal information provided on applications will be treated with the highest level of confidentiality. If you have questions or need assistance with completing the application, send a text to 864-656-2000 or contact ASK-HR. Complete the application Home Bylaws Committees Minutes Newsletter Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship Employee Emergency Fund Thank You, Veterans Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram