Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Digital Access Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Us Digital Accessibility Lab Resources Accessibility Statement Siteimprove Siteimprove Web Accessibility & Compliance Iowa State University embraces diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) from multiple perspectives and from several campus-wide initiatives. Digital accessibility is a large portion of DEI from an IT perspective. ITS at Iowa State is leading campus in this initiative by housing digital accessibility to create inclusive experiences to ensure equal access to websites, software, digital course materials and all digital communications in every facet of external and internal communications at ISU. Creating barrier free access to hardware and software falls under the broad area of digital accessibility. Digital accessibility is not only the production of websites in an accessible manner, it is a mindset and related directly to the student experience. Fully experiencing content and materials using assistive technology is essential in supporting this mindset. Siteimprove is a single-platform, cloud-based accessibility tool to aid Iowa State’s web content editors, designers and developers meet compliance with Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act and the ADA as specified by the Web Accessibility Content Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 success criteria, for ISU-owned websites. Siteimprove is available to each Iowa State University owned website and will connect with Drupal and WordPress Content Management Systems (CMS). Example of what you will see within the Siteimprove platform and how to "improve score" by fixing issues. Siteimprove Features and Shortcuts Accessibility Quality Assurance Policy Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Reports Adding Your Site(s) to Siteimprove Request your site(s) be added to the Siteimprove platform by filling out this form on Servicenow. There is no cost to add your site(s). Training Here is the general information on using the platform and contacts should you have questions or concerns. After your site has been added to the platform, you will need to install the Okta tile. It’s important to add the ISU Siteimprove tile instead of adding an app and searching for Siteimprove outside of the ISU list because it will not work. Here are the differences: Online Helpful Resources: Siteimprove Help Center Siteimprove Guides & FAQ Siteimprove Webinars Siteimprove General Platform on-demand Webinar: Are you a new Siteimprove user? Looking for a refresher on the platform? Check out the recording from Siteimprove Support team Siteimprove Accessibility 101 on-demand Webinar: Find out how Siteimprove fits into your Digital Accessibility Strategy in this overview of the accessibility tools Siteimprove Support Iowa State Digital Access Iowa State eAccessibility Initiative Additional Questions? Contact digitalaccess@iastate.edu Digital Accessibility Lab 116 Durham 613 Morrill Rd digitalaccess@iastate.edu Social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram MS Teams Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information