Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation School of Architecture College of Design Main navigation About Chair's Welcome Our History Atlanta Student Work Facilities Open Opportunities Hire Our Students Accreditation Academics Curriculum Plans Bachelor of Science in Architecture Architecture Minor Architecture Certificates Master of Architecture Master of Science in Architecture Master of Science in Urban Design Dual Master of Architecture & Master of City & Regional Planning Ph.D. in Architecture International Education Current Courses Research Architecture, Culture, & Behavior Building Design Technology Design Computation History, Theory, Criticism Urbanism Research Labs Future Students Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions International Students Transfer Students Pre-College Program Visit Us Scholarships & Financial Aid Future Student Resources Current Students Student Advisory Council Student Resource Guide Academic Advising Studio Culture Career Services Practicum Program Student Organizations Graduate Teaching Assistantships Computer Policy Portfolio Policy Student Awards Community Meet Our Student Ambassadors Meet Our Ph.D. Students Alumni Career Fair BuzzworthySoA Sign-Up 2021 Awards Day People Ventulett Chairs Portman Prize Studio Critic Ventulett NEXT Generation Visiting Fellow Douglas C. Allen Lecturer Academy of Medicine Lecturer News & Events Open Search Search School of Architecture School of Architecture Embedded in the heart of Atlanta and situated in a Tier 1 research institution, the Georgia Tech School of Architecture combines research, technology, and design to form a well-rounded, interdisciplinary, future-focused education as students prepare to make an impact on the built environment. About the School A Local Perspective, Globally Realized School of Architecture students recently explored one of the world’s rarest ecosystems to study how architecture can simultaneously protect the environment and elevate human community. As the habitat of the mountain gorillas in Rwanda grows, farmers are being displaced. Georgia Tech student architects met with relocated communities, visited the Ellen DeGeneres Campus of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund, and presented designs for model communities to house the relocated people. Read the full story 2022 Spring Final Reviews Interested in seeing our Spring 2022 Final Reviews in action? Follow the link to see the full schedule, locations, and guest jurors. Final Review Schedule 2022 ACCelerate Festival Georgia Tech is sending two teams to the 2022 ACCelerate Festival in Washington, D.C. Click on the link to read more! Read More Student Work See our students' work currently exhibited in our 2021 End of Year Show. 2021 End of Year Show We Are the SoA! School of Architecture Lecture and Events April 20-25 Final Reviews Click on the link below to view the Final Review schedule! May 5 2022 End of Year Awards and Show Join us for our annual celebration of student work. Lecture and Events Georgia Tech Team Named 2022 ULI Hines Finalist A team of five Georgia Tech graduate students is one of four finalist teams in the 20th annual ULI Gerald D. Hines Student Urban Design Competition. Read about the competition Discover the School of Architecture Georgia Tech Covid-19 Operations Update Georgia Tech will update this page with new information and resources. Our Commitment to Antiracism As a school, we must take the momentum of this moment and build an antiracist infrastructure. Student Work See our students' work currently exhibited in our 2021 End of Year Show. Research Research is a major component of our design studios and courses. See our areas of specialization. Upcoming Events Register for an upcoming lecture, symposia, info sessions, and more. Visit Us Connect with our Ambassadors, schedule a tour, and/or attend our events. We're excited to meet you! Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in