Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Departments Departments Print Vice President The Vice President is responsible for the design, maintenance, and acquisition of all buildings, grounds, and public spaces on campus. Facilities and Real Estate Services is a service provider for the Penn community and external vendors for event planning, leasing, architectural or landscape services, operations, and ongoing maintenance of campus. The Vice President oversees all of the departmental functions, as well as communications and legal services for the Division. The Division of Facilities and Real Estate Services is comprised of the following Departments: Administration Design and Construction Real Estate Office of the University Architect Operations and Maintenance Administration The Administration department is responsible for Finance and Business Planning, Information Technology, and Human Resources. Responsibilities include management of the capital planning and approval process for the University, financial planning and analysis, evaluation of accounting treatments for our real estate and development transactions, payroll, purchasing transactions, and capital accounting for design and construction projects. The Department also supports the Division’s technology needs, recruitment, and human resource functions. Design and Construction The Design and Construction department implements the University’s capital plan for new construction and renovation of existing properties. The team works closely with the Schools and Centers, design teams, and contractors to ensure that capital projects are completed on time and on budget, while meeting the quality level expectations of the University. The Project Managers lead the Schools and Centers through the budget approval process, design, procurement, and construction of these capital improvement projects. Real Estate The Real Estate department is responsible for the strategic planning, management, and operation of the non-academic property for the University. The primary centers within the Department are Real Estate Development, Retail, Off-Campus Housing, Office Leasing, and Third Party Leasing. Core disciplines include acquisition and disposition of assets, development partnerships in residential, mixed use and office, operations of real estate holdings and office leasing for academic schools and centers. Working in conjunction with other FRES departments, Real Estate implements urban land development and planning that increases the quality of life for Penn and its surrounding community. Office of the University Architect The Office of the University Architect is responsible for the oversight of the design, physical development, and preservation of University facilities, including off-campus facilities (Morris Arboretum and the New Bolton Center for Veterinary Medicine). The University Architect oversees the University’s design review process, campus planning, and designer selection, as well as zoning and accessibility requirements. The staff in the Department also facilitates the Capital Plan, oversees landscape design and improvements, signage, and Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0 efforts for the University. The Department is responsible for tracking and maintaining all space data, such as floor plans, square feet, and departmental areas for the University. Operations and Maintenance Operations and Maintenance sustains the University’s resources by providing maintenance and repair of existing Facilities infrastructure. The Department also manages campus-wide energy related initiatives, provides technical support to construction projects and service contracts, and services for special events. About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage