Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Student Counseling Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home About Us Staff Mission & Vision Diversity and Culture Contact Information Student Eligibility & Access History and Accreditation Services Getting Started Confidentiality Counseling Group Counseling and Workshops Group Counseling Guidelines Group & Workshop Offerings Orientation for Therapy Group Participants Individual Counseling Crisis Counseling Career Counseling Sport Psychology Veterinary Medicine Disordered Eating Services Career Services Career Resources Career Counseling Mind-Body Biofeedback What to Expect When Using Biofeedback Biofeedback Tips Mind-Body Spa Outreach & Presentations Consultations Presentations RESPOND Question, Persuade and Refer (QPR) Resources TAO Self-Help Let's Talk Information for Parents/Faculty/Staff Mental Health Topics Grief & Loss Men's Health and Wellness Community Referrals Online Resources Diversity and Culture Resources Mental Health Resources Brochures and Videos Forms and Policies FAQ Training APA Doctoral Internship Training Philosophy, Aim and Setting Services Provided Training Activities Special Emphasis Areas Admissions, Support and Initial Placement Data Supervisors and Interns About Iowa State and Ames Graduate Assistantship Doctoral Practicum Post-Doctoral Fellowship In Crisis? Home Services Counseling Crisis Counseling Crisis Counseling Crisis services are available to all ISU students, regardless of if you have been seen at SCS before or not. If you are in need of a crisis intervention, including assessment of your concerns and planning for immediate safety, please call Student Counseling Services (515-294-5056) during our business hours and inform us that you are in crisis and would like to talk to a counselor. Your call will then be transferred to one of the on-call counselors.We will ask that you provide us with some information regarding your situation prior to be seen by one of the on-call counselors. What to expect: You can expect that we will meet with you as soon as we can to help ensure your safety, provide you with concrete steps to reduce your feelings of crisis, and discuss with you options for moving forward. As with any concerns about safety, we will discuss with you the need to communicate to other medical providers, other Iowa State University staff, or important support people. As outlined in our Privacy Practices, we generally will not release information protected health information without your consent. The exceptions to this confidentiality and privacy practice arise when there are imminent concerns about your safety or the safety others including risk of death or suspected abuse. An additional exception to our ability to ensure confidentiality may include court-ordered subpoena. Prior to seeing a counselor, you will have the opportunity to review our Privacy Practices in full. 24 Hour/365 Days per Year Resources: Should you find yourself in a crisis situation after hours or duing the weekend. We encourage you to use one of the resources available to you during those times including: Crisis Text Line text ISU to 741741 24 hour text-based crisis assistance The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 24 hour telephone hotline and internet-based chat, information for self-help or helping a friend: coping skills, mental health education Iowa State University Police Department 24 hour police department on ISU campus call 515-294-4428 for NON-emergencies call 911 in emergency situations Ames Police Department 24 hour police department for the city of Ames call 515-239-5133 for NON-emergencies call 911 in emergency situations Mary Greeley Medical Center, Emergency Department 24 hour emergency care Student Counseling Services Student Counseling Services Iowa State University 2505 Union Drive, 3rd Floor Ames, IA 50011 515-294-5056 phone 515-294-5205 fax Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...