Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS Search Life at SONHS Academic Deans' Meetings for Families Student Organizations Alumnus of Distinction SONHS Lecture Series Parent and Family Engagement Diversity and Inclusivity About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS About SONHS Academics Admissions and Student Services Faculty and Staff Research Life at SONHS Academic Deans' Meetings for Families Student Organizations Alumnus of Distinction SONHS Lecture Series Parent and Family Engagement Diversity and Inclusivity Home Life at SONHS AAA Life at SONHS About SONHS Academics Admissions and Student Services Faculty and Staff Research Life at SONHS Academic Deans' Meetings for Families Student Organizations Alumnus of Distinction SONHS Lecture Series Parent and Family Engagement Diversity and Inclusivity Whose life will you change today? The U boasts over 270 clubs for everything from salsa dancing to SCUBA diving, more than 40 service groups, many chapters of national healthcare organizations, not to mention professional associations and honor societies like Sigma Theta Tau International. As a student at the School of Nursing and Health Studies, you’ll have endless opportunities to explore this dynamic community, engage with diverse populations and better the world. The SONHS is committed to supporting your novel, optimistic, world-changing journey, through clinical matching services, study abroad guidance, leadership training, faculty mentor connections and more. As you forge your own unique path to your goals, you’ll touch hearts, alleviate suffering and learn critical lessons along the way. And, yes, you’ll even change lives. Starting with your own. Learn more about Life at the SONHS. Alumnus of Distinction Honoring alumni who have exemplified the professionalism, humanity and citizenship. Learn More Student Organizations There are many opportunities to build the legacy of excellence in nursing. Learn More Parent and Family Engagement As parents and family members, you are an integral part of the SONHS community. Learn More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Nursing and Health Studies P.O. Box 248153 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3666 305-284-3666 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices