Skip to main content Information for: Current Students Alumni Give Today Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (General) M.S.L.S. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Admissions Academics Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program (General) M.S.L.S. Program LL.M. Program (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Program Experiential Learning International Programs Centers & Programs Areas of Study Law Reviews Additional Resources Registrar Academic Support Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research on SSRN Faculty Directory Careers For Alumni For Employers For Students Life at Cornell Law Campus Dean of Students Office Diversity and Inclusion Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing and Community Resources Ithaca Law Library Registrar’s Office Student Activities & Organizations Search Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (General) M.S.L.S. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Admissions Academics Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program (General) M.S.L.S. Program LL.M. Program (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Program Experiential Learning International Programs Centers & Programs Areas of Study Law Reviews Additional Resources Registrar Academic Support Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research on SSRN Faculty Directory Careers For Alumni For Employers For Students Life at Cornell Law Campus Dean of Students Office Diversity and Inclusion Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing and Community Resources Ithaca Law Library Registrar’s Office Student Activities & Organizations Information for: Current Students Alumni Give Today Close search Search Cornell Law School Or search: cornell.edu Academics Explore Academics Areas of Study Degree Programs Experiential Learning International Programs Law Reviews “The school's location in Ithaca allowed me to experience living in a smaller college town and to have more of a university experience.” Kristina Hurley '19 Quick Links Admissions Campus Centers & Programs Law Reviews Registrar Student Activities & Organizations 170+ courses offered 64 full time faculty 5:1 student-to-faculty ratio Experiential Learning Cornell Law School’s robust and thriving experiential learning program traces its roots back to 1960. Today, it is an essential part of our educational mission, encompassing twenty-three clinics and practicum courses and an extensive array of externships and simulation courses. Clinical Programs & Externships Lawyering Program Moot Court Program cornell.law.school While the deer may be enjoying the lack of students at the Law School this week, we sure miss everyone already! Have an amazing summer and congratulations again to all of our graduates. View May 27 Open cornell.law.school On May 12, 2022, Cornell Law School’s Death Penalty Program received the Award for Excellence in a Public Interest Case or Project from the Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA). The award honors the work of the Capital Punishment Clinic, the International Human Rights Clinic, the Center on the Death Penalty Worldwide, and the Death Penalty Project, representing the efforts of Professors Sandra Babcock, John Blume, Sheri Johnson, and Keir Weyble, as well as generations of their students, alumni, community partners, and clients. View May 20 Open cornell.law.school 👨‍🎓Congratulations to our newest alumni!👩‍🎓 We are proud of all of your hard work and dedication and welcome you to the Cornell Law School alumni family. #LawyersInTheBestSense #CornellLaw #Convocation View May 15 Open cornell.law.school You could not ask for more beautiful weather for Slope Day 2022. Good food, good music, and incredible students enjoying the sunshine and celebrating all of their hard work. View May 11 Open cornell.law.school Today Fern was at the law school helping students to de-stress while studying for exams. #CornellPawSchool #LabsInTheBestSense View May 4 Open cornell.law.school Don’t forget to stop by Copper Horse Coffee in the Commons for your complimentary cup of coffee sponsored by the Dean of students. Keep up the great work studying for exams! 🧠📝 View May 4 Open cornell.law.school Students in the sunshine on this gorgeous Friday. #TGIF #SpringIntoTheWeekend View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school Cornell Paw School Thank you to alumnus Dave McGrath '92 for bringing Rigby along with your family for a tour of #CornellLawSchool Chloe was also enjoying the rays outside of Hughes Hall while her mama had lunch with a friend. #LawDogs #LawWithPaws View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school Happy 🌎. Day! 🌳 What a gorgeous day to walk around campus. View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school Congratulations Professor Kysel. 👏 https://www.lawschool.cornell.edu/news/ian-kysel-joins-cornell-law-as-assistant-clinical-professor-of-law-and-founding-director-of-the-transnational-disputes-clinic/ View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school 👏👏 Cornell Law School sent a higher percentage of its 2021 graduates to large law firms than any other U.S. law school, according to new data from the American Bar Association. 👨‍🎓👩‍🎓 https://www.reuters.com/legal/legalindustry/biggest-law-firms-turned-these-schools-us-recruits-2022-04-20/ View Apr 21 Open cornell.law.school Where is/was your favorite place to spend your time at the law school? View Apr 20 Open Follow on Instagram Cornell Law School Myron Taylor Hall Ithaca, NY 14853-4901 Quick Links Current Students Alumni Quick Links Academics Admissions Careers Life at Cornell Law News ABA Required Disclosures About CLS Contact Law Library Legal Information Institute Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin ©2022 Cornell University Privacy Policy Accessibility This website uses cookies We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok