Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Curricular Resource Center Fellowship, Internship, and Research experiences (FIRe) Curricular Resource Center Fellowship, Internship, and Research experiences (FIRe) The CRC's Fellowships, Internships, and Research Experiences (FIRe) advising initiative is a great place for students to begin learning more about engaged learning opportunities outside of the classroom. Interested in applying for a fellowship but don't know where to start? Need help crafting a project proposal? Want to learn what it means to conduct academic research? Then you've come to the right place! For a regularly updated resource of opportunities, please visit our blog at https://browncrcfire.wordpress.com/ For fellowship, internship, and research experience opportunities for undocumented and DACA students, please check out the recently updated (Nov. '20) FIRe Guide for Undocumented Students. A helpful list of on-campus resources: The Brown Fellowships Website Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRA)--during the summer or academic year The Writing Center (for help with your written materials) The Science Center (for STEM-related opportunities) Focal Point (Brown's list of concentrations and advisors) Exploring Options: Log into ASK (Advising Sidekick) using your Banner login, click on the "CareerLab" option and pick options to tailor the search to your interests related to Careers in the Common Good "Get Your Bearings" financial literacy workshops Some people associated with FIRe Opportunities: Dean Oludurotimi Adetunji (UTRA), Dean Linda Dunleavy (national fellowship opportunities), Dean George Vassilev (Pre-Professional Advising), Jesús Hernández '03 (Royce Fellowships), and Dr. Asabe Poloma (Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowhip) Please see the tabs on the menu to the left for detailed information on fellowships, research grants offered outside Brown, scholarships, mentorships, international opportunities. and the application process. FIRe Learning Goals: Make fellowships, internships, research experiences, and other co-curricular opportunities more visible and accessible to underrepresented students. Guide students to develop and articulate their academic goals. Related Files (Last updated 11.2020) Undocumented Student Resource Guide.edited.pdf Home Independent Concentrations Independent Studies Leavetaking Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) Matched Advising Program for Sophomores (MAPS) Fellowship, Internship, and Research Experiences (FIRe) Fellowships Scholarships The Application Process Theories in Action Symposium (TiA) Contact Print this Page Share this Page Curricular Resource Center Brown University Box 1825 167 Angell Street Ground Level Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3013 Fax n/a [email protected] There are no events available. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory