Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Campus Climate Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Reporting system How to Report Process FAQ Incidents Resources Policies Climate Survey 2017 Project History and Press Climate Study Documents Climate Study Teams Implementation Efforts New Initiatives FAQ Pre-Survey FAQ Data Who must report Are all University personnel required to report incidents? According to the Iowa State University Policy on Reporting Responsibility, all members of the university community have a responsibility to report any suspected crime to the Iowa State University Police. In the case of incidents not on the Ames campus, local police authorities should be called in order to avoid any delay in response. It is especially important to report any suspected violence or other crime that may result in significant harm to individuals or property loss and damage. Violations should be reported as indicated below: TYPE OF VIOLATION REPORT TO Employee Misconduct University Human Resources or Senior Vice President and Provost Discrimination and Harassment Office of Equal Opportunity University Policy Policy Administrator Research Misconduct Office for Responsible Research Student Disciplinary Office of Student Conduct NCAA Athletics Compliance Who are required reporting parties? See the ISU policy on Reporting Responsibility. When to report How promptly must a report be filed? We rely on University personnel to use their good judgement in filing timely reports. It is helpful to report incidents immediately, but we welcome reports at any time. What to report What is a reportable incident? Reportable incidents include: Sexual offenses, including abuse, violence, assault, misconduct Sexual harassment, including stalking Sexual exploitation Interpersonal (relationship) violence All hate crimes Discrimination, harassment, and retaliation based on any protected status If you are unsure whether the conduct at issue is something that should be reported through the Campus Climate Reporting System (CCRS), talk to someone in the Equal Opportunity Office (515-294-7612) for help with questions you may have. Incidents that are criminal in nature should be reported to the Iowa State University Police (515-294-4428) in addition to the CCRS. What is the definition of a hate crime? Iowa Code § 792A.2 defines hate crimes as crimes committed against a person or their property "because of the person's race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, political affiliation, sex, sexual orientation, age, or disability, or the person's association with a person of a certain race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, policial affiliation, sex, sexual orientation, age, or disability." Hate crimes may include: assault, sexual assault, battery, misdemeanor theft, criminal trespess to residence, misdemeanor criminal damage to property, criminal trespass to vehicle, mob action or disorderly conduct, or harassment by telephone or through electronic communication. What is the definition of a bias incident? Bias incidents reflect a similar motivation as hate crimes but may not reach the legal threshold of criminality. Examples of bias incidents can include taunting, verbal harassment, bullying, intimidation, or the posting or circulating of demeaning jokes or documents. Although they are not considered hate crimes, these are serious incidents that can have long-lasting, serious effects on the Iowa State University community. What classes are protected in Iowa? The following are protected classes under Iowa Code, Chapter 216: Race Creed/Religion Color Sex Sexual Orientation Gender Identity National Origin Mental Disability Physical Disability Age Familial Status Marital Status Retaliation What if I don't know a lot of specifics or I am unsure of the credibility of the information? If you are unsure whether or not the information is credible, please do not try to investigate to determine the crime or incident took place. Try to provide as many key details as possible, such as: who, what, where, when, and how. Reports will be acknowledged within three business days. A Campus Climate Reporting System (CCRS) partner may follow-up to ask for additional information and will determine the proper next steps and authenticity of the information. Confidentiality If I report an incident, is my information kept confidential? Information is kept confidential to the extent possible. If the decision is made to pursue disciplinary action against the person who engaged in the conduct, certain information related to the report will be shared with that person. Witnesses may also be made aware of certain information, but confidentiality will be protected to the extent possible in order to gather information but not overshare details that are unncessary. In addition, demographic information solicited on the intake form will not be shared unless relevant to the incident. Every effort will be made to respect the claimant's decision about how to proceed after filing a report. Is it possible to remain anonymous? Anonymous reports are accepted, but the opportunity to ask follow-up questions may result in a more effective response. Who is a confidential source on campus? Under Iowa law, communications with some individuals are confidential. This means that any information shared by the victim/survivor with a specific individual will not be used against them in court or shared with others. This individual cannot be subpoenaed to testify against the victim/survivor in a court of law. Students should always confirm whether confidentiality applies to communication. Generally, confidentiality applies when a student seeks services from the following persons: ACCESS advocate Psychological counselor, including counselors at ISU Student Counseling Services Health care providers, including medical professionals at Thielen Student Health Center Personal attorneys Religious/spiritual counselors Will private information submitted be made available to the public? Details regarding Campus Climate Reporting System (CCRS) reports remain private and are shared on a need-to-know basis with those who have the responsibility to respond. Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence How do I report sexual violence? If you would like to report sexual violence, please click HERE. What is the difference between sexual harassment and sexual assault? Sexual assault is a type of sexual harassment. Sexual assualt is an extreme form of sexual misconduct representing a continuum of conduct from forcible intercourse to nonphysical forms of pressure that compel individuals to engage in sexual activity against a person's will. Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that creates a hostile, intimidating, or offensive environment. Off-Campus If I learn of an incident that took place off campus, do I need to report it? Reports of behavior and actions on and off campus are welcome. Annual reports 2018 (pdf) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Campus Climate 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 phone Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information