Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory The College Support for Faculty & Advisors Teaching and Curriculum College Curriculum Council College Curriculum Council The College Curriculum Council (CCC) is an elected body of faculty and students, along with administrators, charged with overseeing undergraduate curricular offerings at Brown. The Council reviews individual course proposals as well as larger programs of study, including concentrations, study abroad, and degree programs. In addition, the Committee is responsible for academic policies related to the curriculum, such as grading policies, the role of undergraduate teaching assistants (UTAs), and the administration of student course feedback forms. The navigation bar on this site links to additional information on these areas and on the CCC's general policies and processes. The CCC consists of the Dean of the College, who serves as chair; 8 faculty members, one of whom serves as vice-chair; 4 undergraduates; 4 additional administrators; and a representative from the Gradute Student Council. The Dean of the College welcomes all interested faculty and students to stand for election. The CCC meets regularly, typically twice a month on the 2nd and 4th Tuesday of the month from 4:00-5:30 pm. Per Brown University Faculty Rules, its meetings are open to the University community, but the Council may go into executive session when it sees fit. Members of the Brown community wishing to see minutes may contact Sarah Mullen. The agenda will be posted on this site when CCC meetings resume during the academic year. Submit a Proposal Submit your proposal via this online form. See additional information about policies and procedures here. Related Resources Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning | Teaching Resources Registrar's Office | Course Offering Resources University Reaccreditation Website Home Academic Advising Teaching and Curriculum Class Attendance College Curriculum Council Proposals Concentration Reviews Designing New Courses Curricular Programs Policies, Guidelines, and Reports Course Development Funds Student Course Feedback Final Exams, Extensions, and Accommodations Supporting Students in Distress Registration and Grade Options Undergrad Teaching Assistants Faculty Prizes Print this Page Share this Page Dean of the College Brown University Box 1828 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9800 Shibboleth login Shibboleth Login Quick Links Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Custom Footer 1 WebServices BrownSites Documentation BrownSites Demo Custom Footer 2 Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide