Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Economics Why Study Here? Why Study Here? Testimonials Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Major Declaration Majors Minor Distinction Program Courses SMƱRM-Economics Graduation Internships and Jobs Mangum Award Policies Academic Advising Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Masters Programs Ph.D. Program Graduate School Resources Learn More Master’s Degree Tuition Fellowship Bush-SMU Initiative Bush-SMU Initiative About People Visiting Fellows Program George W. Bush Institute Doctoral Fellowship People Research Research Faculty Research Areas Recent Publications Working Papers Economics Seminar Series Econometrics Blog Events About About Contact Us News Inside Economics Newsletter Job Openings Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Economics Academics Departments Economics Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Graduate Programs Bush-SMU Initiative Welcome The Economics Department is a highly ranked research department. The National Research Council ranks it among the top 10% of U.S. Ph.D-granting Economics departments in research productivity per faculty member. Faculty conduct cutting-edge research in a broad range of areas, publish frequently in top academic journals, win major academic awards, are members of prestigious research bodies like the NBER and IZA, and are editors of major academic journals. As the first SMU Ph.D. program, the Economics Department has been a forerunner of graduate research and education for over 60 years. Today, its Masters programs are a pioneer in professional training. It also attracts the most undergraduate majors in Dedman College and the second most at SMU. Through its emphasis on economic theory and quantitative skills, undergraduate and graduate students develop the key critical thinking and problem solving skills demanded worldwide by the corporate sector, policy institutions and academia. Students interested in learning about the vast array of research and careers that an economics degree prepares you for can check out the videos here and here. Ph.D. Alumni Bios Read More 1st Year Ph.D. Student Bios Read More 4+1 Master's Degree Read More Contact the Department of Economics Umphrey Lee Building P.O. Box 750496 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0235 214-768-4337 Want to be an economics major? News More news Economics Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People George W. Bush Institute-SMU Economic Growth Initiative Research About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube