Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Health Professions Departments Academics Career Paths About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Health Information Management Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Health Information Management Academics Academics Bachelor's Degree Bachelor's Degree-Completion Program (Online RHIT-to-RHIA ) BS in HIM to MBA Fast Track Program Minor in Health Care Management Joint BS in HIM/MHSA Bridge Program Computer Requirements Technical Standards Student Handbook Career Paths About About Faculty and Staff Connect with Us Program History Make a Gift With a degree in health information management from KU, you’re ready for diverse career opportunities at the nexus of data, processes, technology and people, supporting patient care and helping health care organizations operate efficiently. Bachelor's Degree Online RHIT-to-RHIA Minor in Healthcare Management HIM practitioners are a critical component of the electronic health record (EHR) workforce. $104,208 Median salary for health information managers (2021) Learn about the work of this fast-growing occupation. Accreditation and Student Outcomes The Health Information Management accreditor of the University of Kansas Medical Center is the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The College's accreditation for baccalaureate degree in Health Information Management has been reaffirmed through 2021. All inquiries about the program's accreditation status should be directed by mail to CAHIIM, 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100, Chicago, IL, 60601; by phone at 312.235.3255 or by email at info@cahiim.org. Documents relating to accreditation status are available at the department office by request. Information for students. Student Achievement and Outcomes Data The following data is from the 2020-2021 academic year. Program graduation rate: 93.33% of students who entered the program graduated. Program employment rate: 100% of graduates who sought employment are employed (there are two graduates for which their status is unknown at this time), with most employed prior to or within six months of graduation. Graduate school entry: three of the 15 graduates began graduate studies (in disciplines including MHSA and M.D. programs). Program transfer rate: 0% of students who entered the program transferred to another health information management program. Employer satisfaction: 100% of responding employers indicate they would hire a graduate from the KU health information management program again in the future; 75% strongly agree and 25% agree that graduates from the KU health information management program have the knowledge necessary to perform work they are hired to perform. KU School of Health Professions University of Kansas Medical Center Health Information Management 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Mailstop 2008 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-2423 • 711 TTY KU Health Professions Department of Health Information Management Facebook Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.