HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation About M&VE Resources Clemson Student Veteran Center Veteran Tutoring Resources Green Zone Training Veteran Scholarships VA Educational Benefits Military Residency Sitrep Newsletter Organizations Clemson Student Veterans Association SALUTE Veterans Honor Society Mike M. Smalley Veterans Memorial Scholarship Clemson Veterans Living Library Clemson University Veterans Commission Clemson Corps Contact Us SALUTE Veterans Honor Society SALUTE stands for: Service, Academics, Leadership, Unity, Tribute, Excellence. The society was formed in 2009 by the Colorado State University Veterans Office thanks to a grant by the American Council of Education and Wal-Mart Foundation. Each chapter symbolizes not only the collective achievement of veterans bettering themselves through the pursuit of knowledge, but also our commitment as a group to honor those among us that are the tip of the spear across the nation. Each scholar will forever be members of our society and be the role models for the student veterans that follow them. They have a duty going forward for making this honor society, and their local chapter, something that promotes achievement by all student veterans now and in the future. We are proud to announce that SALUTE inducts new members into our ranks from active student bodies every semester. This tremendous growth of our society shows the dedication of our military and veteran population when it comes to academics, and our students are recognized and honored at ceremonies across the nation from all of our active chapters! Our Mission The mission of Clemson SALUTE is to recognize and honor the service and academic achievements of student veterans who are attending or who have graduated from Clemson University. How to Join Qualifying veterans will be emailed their invitation to join SALUTE based on verified veteran status, GPA, and total credits. Directions to become a SALUTE member will be described in the invitation email. More information on Clemson SALUTE can be found on TigerQuest. General Questions To learn more about Clemson SALUTE Veterans Honor Society, please contact clemsonsalute@clemson.edu or Military and Veteran Engagement at veteran@clemson.edu. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster