Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Islamic Civilization and Societies Menu Main Nav Islamic Civilization and Societies Islamic Civilization and Societies Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Program News Student News Carly Sullivan Kyle Costa Faculty News Archive Newsletter Giving Events Events Archive People Overview Alumni Alumni News & Profiles ICS Newsletters Academics Overview Major Minor M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies Courses Academic Resources Career Study Abroad Overview Aggad Fellowship Student Profiles Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies Academics Major Minor M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies Courses Academic Resources M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies The interdisciplinary Master of Arts program in Middle Eastern Studies is designed for students who wish to acquire a broad background in Middle Eastern history, cultures and politics. Students in the program may focus their coursework and research in one of the following two areas of concentration: Politics and international relations of the Middle East Religion, culture and society in the Middle East A significant feature of the program is the extensive and diverse range of resources available to graduate students throughout the program. Students have considerable flexibility in designing their programs of study and have access to the resources of the fine arts, music, history, political science, theology and other departments of the University, as well as to the rich intellectual resources of the Boston area. The program seeks to prepare students for a variety of post-graduate opportunities in academia, government and public service, non-governmental organizations, museums and cultural institutions in the United States and abroad. Learning Outcomes Upon completion of the M.A. program, students will: Demonstrate substantial knowledge of their area of focus: politics and foreign policies of the Middle East or religion, culture and society in the Middle East; Conduct scholarly work at the post-graduate level; Demonstrate proficiency at the advanced level in one of the languages spoken in the region, such as Arabic, Farsi, Turkish, or Hebrew; Be strong candidates for admission to doctoral programs in Middle Eastern Studies or for professional jobs that require post-graduate education. The M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies is designed primarily for full-time students, however, prospective students who wish to pursue the program on a part-time basis are welcome to apply. Information regarding admission to the program e.g. application deadline, application requirements, etc., may be found on the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences admissions page. For additional information please contact Kathleen Bailey, Associate Director, Islamic Civilization and Societies. Back To Top Back To Top Contact Islamic Civilization and Societies McGuinn Hall 529 617-552-4170 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College