Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP MPDP Plus Program STAI Scholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law About TN Institute for Prelaw TN INSTITUTE FOR PRE-LAW The Tennessee Institute for Pre-Law (TIP) program is an admission-by-performance program for Tennessee and border county residents that show potential for law school academic success and bring diversity to the next entering class. The TIP program is four weeks of classroom instruction, taught by UM Law professors, that simulates the first-year law school curriculum. Applicants who are invited to enroll in TIP, and successfully complete program requirements will be eligible for Fall admission to the University of Memphis School of Law. The Summer TIP 2022 Program is tentatively scheduled to run from June 1 - July 8 at the University of Memphis School of Law. Please note: Because the TIP program begins in early June, the February 2022 LSAT-Flex is the latest test applicants should take for full consideration. April 2022 LSAT-Flex applicants might be considered, but remaining spots will be limited. TIP ELIGIBILITY: The Applicant must be: A Tennessee or Border County Resident (Crittenden County in Arkansas and De Soto, Marshall, Tate & Tunica Counties in Mississippi); A graduating college senior or applicant who will have obtained a baccalaureate degree prior to program commencement; and Able to demonstrate diversity by one of the following: a first-generation college graduate, foreign-born, or a first-generation U.S. citizen, a graduate of a historically minority undergraduate institution, economically disadvantaged, disabled, or racially or ethnically underrepresented. By March 15th interested Applicants must submit a: University of Memphis School of Law Application for Admission; including the portion of the application related to TIP. Applicants must also provide a TIP supplemental statement, which asks the applicant to discuss any circumstance (e.g., financial, personal, family, health-related, etc.) that have impacted his or her educational opportunities, and how he or she might contribute to diversity in the law school. Application to TIP is optional, and admission to TIP is competitive. Only a limited number of seats are available. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE There is no fee to participate in the TIP program. Outside employment and concurrent enrollment in an academic program is prohibited. Program participants are provided the following for the duration of the program: A $1,000 stipend; Free parking; Free WIFI, printing, and e-mail access; and Main Campus housing for non-Shelby County residents. Notification of TIP decisions will be provided in mid to late April. Please contact Demetria Frank, Law Professor and Director of Law School Diversity and Inclusion, at (901) 678-4948 or at lawdiversity@memphis.edu, if you have any questions. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/29/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.