Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Supply Chain Management Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Supply Chain Management Major Apply Request More Info Supply Chain Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Supply Chain Management Learn to manage a business’ supply-side activities in order to maximize customer value and gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace with the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Supply Chain Management from Temple’s Fox School of Business. As a graduate, you will have the ability to direct the efficient flow of goods and services from suppliers and manufacturers directly to retailers and consumers. Supply chain management professionals focus on every facet of the business process from planning and forecasting to purchasing, product assembly, sales and customer service. They strive to achieve a sustainable advantage by building and delivering products more efficiently to customers at a better value than competitors. Through this degree you will develop a basic knowledge of supply chain management, including distribution strategies, planning, and procurement, while also working on your communication, leadership and negotiation skills. The Bachelor of Business Administration in Supply Chain Management is intended for students who are interested in the study of control, design, execution, monitoring and planning of supply chain activities with the objectives of building a competitive infrastructure, creating net value, leveraging worldwide logistics, measuring performance globally and synchronizing supply with demand. The curriculum is complemented by seminars and career fairs where students learn best practices from industry leaders and identify areas of interest for their careers. Learn more about internships and opportunities. This undergraduate program is offered as both a major and a minor, providing students the flexibility to pursue their studies full time or as part of a full course load alongside another Fox degree program. Sustainability in Supply Chain Management Supply chain management is both an art and a science; it is a discipline focused on planning and forecasting, purchasing and product assembly, moving, storage, distribution, sales and customer service—in short, all of the activities necessary to get the right products and services into the right hands, in the right quantity, at the right time and at the right price. An increased focus on sustainability is an integral part of Temple University’s efforts to advance the future of supply chain management education. The next generation of supply chain managers will understand that a company does not exist simply to maximize return on investment capital; other factors, including waste management and energy use, play a pivotal role in the daily functions of any company, and a successful supply chain takes the full breadth and depth of a company’s impact into consideration from the outset. Supply Chain Management Minor The Supply Chain Management Minor is a 12-credit program open to all business majors who want to supplement their knowledge of supply chain management and learn to direct the efficient flow of goods and services from suppliers and manufacturers to retailers and consumers. It is ideal for students who are innovative enough to think creatively, yet meticulous enough to forecast the bigger picture. The minor course sequence is a strong complement to several Fox majors, including Accounting, Finance, International Business, Management Information Systems and Marketing. Learn more about the Supply Chain Management minor. Classes & Curriculum The Supply Chain Management Major requires 124 didactic credits. Core courses you will take include Global Entrepreneurship, Inventory and Warehouse Management, Principles of Supply Chain Management, Sourcing and Procurement, and Transportation and Logistics Management. Learn more about required courses within the Supply Chain Management Degree. Online BBA Program The Supply Chain Management Degree is available as an Online BBA degree completion program designed for new and continuing students. Learn more about the online program. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration DBA Business Administration MBA Business Analytics MS Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Marketing MS, Marketing Research and Insights Concentration Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to marketing and supply chain management students in the Fox School of Business. Dedicated to the professional development of business students, the Temple University chapter of the American Marketing Association exposes its members to various careers in marketing through speaker panels and other special events. The Professional Sales Organization mission is to help students of all majors develop a core business competency; the ability to influence. The organization provides its members with access to a dozen corporate speakers a semester to learn real world sales and influence that will complement every major. The Temple University Supply Chain Association mission is to provide students interested in supply chain management with professional development and networking opportunities through close partnerships with leading professionals in the Philadelphia region. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-SCM-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Supply Chain Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info