Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift All articles related to "microbiome": Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Curtis Huttenhower studies microbial communities starting at the population level. He hopes that by understanding how the microbiome affects a wide range of systems in the body, researchers will ultimately be able to target it to improve health… Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health August 8, 2019 – With the renewal of a major federal grant, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s NIEHS Center for Environmental Health will focus on a broad new objective—the exploration of how a wide variety of… New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease For immediate release: May 29, 2019 Boston, MA – A new study led by researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard is the first to have observed the complex… Researchers explore the link between the microbiome and public health May 24, 2019 – The microbiome—the collection of trillions of microorganisms throughout the body that plays an important role in numerous diseases—represents a promising frontier in the world of public health. Although it’s a relatively new field of… The future of cancer prevention (part 2) In this episode, we speak to a scientist who is examining how our microbiome—the collection of trillions of microbes in and on our bodies—can affect the development of colon cancer. To stop colon cancer, new study looks to the microbiome January 23, 2019—The burden of colorectal cancer is staggering. In 2018, it was the third-most common diagnosed cancer among both men and women in the U.S., and data indicate that younger adults are increasingly being diagnosed with it.… Tool developed to help better understand microbiome Scientists know that the gut microbiome is closely linked to human health, but little has been known about the roles of specific microorganisms. Now researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, the Broad Institute of MIT… Thousands of new microbial communities identified in human body Study sheds light on differences unique to individuals’ microbes For immediate release: September 20, 2017 Boston, MA – A new study of the human microbiome—the trillions of microbial organisms that live on and within our bodies—has analyzed thousands… Harvard Chan School awarded $4.9 million to create microbiome biobank May 24, 2017— Scientists are just beginning to understand the many ways in which our microbiomes—the trillions of microbial organisms that live on and inside our bodies—influence a range of threats to human health including cancers, diabetes, heart… Podcast: Inside your microbiome [soundcloud url="https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/252188033" params="auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&visual=true" width="100%" height="450" iframe="true" /] In our new podcast series, Harvard Chan: This Week in Health, we’ll bring you top health headlines—from wellness tips to important global health trends. You’ll also hear insight from Harvard Chan experts. In… Pagination navigation 1 2 Author add969 Posted on August 26, 2016 May 29, 2019 Categories Uncategorized Related Articles microbiome Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College