Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Applying to Clemson Current: International Application Process Earn your bachelor’s degree at Clemson. Apply now. Clemson Application Coalition Application Common Application You will apply to Clemson as an international undergraduate student if you are not a resident of the United States and you are seeking a bachelor’s degree. Application Deadlines Date Event May 1 The last day to apply and have all application credentials submitted for Fall entry (August enrollment) is May 1. June 1 I-20 or DS-2019 must be received by Clemson for Fall entry. October 1 The last day to apply and have all application credentials submitted for Spring entry (January enrollment) is October 1. November 1 I-20 or DS-2019 must be received by Clemson for Spring entry. How to apply to Clemson as an international undergraduate student Review important dates and deadlines. The Clemson application opens August 1. Students must submit their application and all required credentials by May 1 for Fall entry or October 1 for Spring entry. Complete the application. Submit your application through the Clemson Application, Coalition Application or the Common Application. No preference is given to any application in the admission review process. Pay the application fee. There is a $70 application fee. Clemson accepts all major credit cards. If you are a first-year student and you would like to submit test scores, request your test scores be sent from The College Board or ACT. This step is not required for transfer students. For the 2022 admissions cycle, Clemson has adopted a test-optional policy. Applicants are not required to submit a standardized test score to be considered for admission to Clemson for the 2022-2023 academic year. If you choose that test scores should be used, your scores must be submitted electronically by the respective testing agency. Clemson’s institutional code for SAT is 5111, and the code for ACT is 3842. Clemson super-scores both the SAT and the ACT. For the SAT, this means that the overall total SAT score will then be derived by taking the highest of the evidence-based reading and writing/math scores. According to The ACT, superscoring at Clemson means that we “consider a student’s highest ACT section (or subtest) scores regardless of test date. The super composite ACT score is calculated as the average of the best ACT English, Reading, Math, and Science subject scores and is used as one of multiple factors in admission and financial aid.” Submit your official TOEFL, IELTS or DuoLingo scores. English proficiency is measured through the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or DuoLingo. Clemson’s institutional code is 5111. Note: Transfer applicants attending U.S. institutions who have passed English composition courses I and II that are equivalent to Clemson University’s ENGL 1030 with a grade of “B” or better are exempt from the TOEFL/IELTS requirement. The test can also be waived for students where English is the primary language or one of the official languages. Submit your academic credentials. Clemson University requires first-year applicants to self-report their high school transcripts. Students who are admitted to Clemson will be required to send official transcripts prior to enrollment. After submitting your application, a link to the SRAR system will be available in your Applicant Portal. Learn more about how to complete your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR). If you are a transfer student, submit translated course descriptions for any coursework to be evaluated for Clemson academic credit. Clemson University requires transfer applicants to submit official transcripts or mark sheets from all collegiate institutions attended. These credentials MUST be verified by a U.S. educational consultant agency. Note: Clemson accepts U.S. educational credential evaluations from World Education Services (WES) and Josef Silny & Associates. What We Look For: Applicant Credentials First-Year Applicants High School Performance (Class Standing and GPA) The most important factor considered in making an admission decision for first-year applicants is high school performance. We use GPA, class rank and the rigor of the classes you took based on the curriculum provided at your high school. Most applicants have competitive GPAs and present transcripts with college preparatory, honors and AP/IB coursework based on what is offered by their high school. Standardized Test Scores (SAT or ACT) For the 2022 admissions cycle, Clemson has adopted a test-optional policy. Applicants are not required to submit a standardized test score to be considered for admission to Clemson for the 2022-2023 academic year. If a student chooses that test scores should be used, the scores must be submitted electronically by the respective testing agency. We will automatically update your application file with any new test scores we receive by our application deadlines. Clemson does not require the SAT or ACT essay. Clemson University super-scores both the SAT and the ACT. For the SAT, this means that the overall total SAT score will then be derived by taking the highest of the evidence-based reading and writing/math scores. According to The ACT, superscoring at Clemson means that we “consider a student’s highest ACT section (or subtest) scores regardless of test date. The super composite ACT score is calculated as the average of the best ACT English, Reading, Math, and Science subject scores and is used as one of multiple factors in admission and financial aid.” Beginning in September 2020, students who want test scores used are encouraged to send Clemson their ACT test scores utilizing the Superscore reporting option. You can view our First-Year Student Profile to learn more about test score ranges for our admitted students. Transfer Applicants College Coursework and GPA Applicants for transfer admission should have earned 30 hours of transferable credit after high school graduation. Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate and dual-enrollment credit may not be used to count toward the 30-hour requirement. Transfer candidates should have earned a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale. 3.0 is preferred. We recommend transfer applicants complete freshman-level courses in English, science and mathematics for their intended major at Clemson. All transfer applicants must be in good standing and eligible to return to the last institution they attended. All International Applicants Choice of Major Some majors attract large numbers of applicants or have limited classroom space, making them more competitive for admission. In addition, as a public institution, we give South Carolina residents priority in our evaluation process. Consequently, students are asked to select two intended majors. If the student is not admitted in the first choice, they may be admitted in the second choice. We strongly encourage students to select two different majors rather than listing the same major twice. English Language Proficiency Proficiency Measure Required Scores TOEFL Internet-Based Test (code: 5111) 80 or higher IELFTS (code: 5111) 6.5 or higher (minimum 6.0 in each sub score) English Composition I and II from an accredited U.S. college or university Grade of B or better DuoLingo 105 or higher Financial Ability Upon admission to Clemson, the Office of International Services will work with students to obtain verification that sufficient funds are available for the student’s entire educational tenure at Clemson. There are no scholarships for international undergraduates at Clemson. Activities Outside the Classroom When reviewing applications, the Clemson admissions team evaluates extracurricular activities as well as academic performance. Please share the hobbies, jobs and responsibilities where you have invested your time with us. Leadership in a club/organization Sports Arts Volunteer activity Academic clubs/organizations Part-time employment Family obligations Background and Opportunities At Clemson, we are looking to recruit a diverse student body with varied backgrounds, knowledge, talents and experiences. Please share information pertaining to the academic opportunities offered at your high school that shaped the way you think or had a significant impact on your development. Please also share legacy or first-generation status. Who You Are as an Individual We recognize that students experience a variety of challenges that may have impacted them academically. Please use the “Candidate’s Comments” section of the application to let us know if there are specific circumstances that we should consider in the admissions process. What to expect after you apply We will keep you updated on the status of your application via email. You can also find up-to-date information by visiting your Applicant Portal. When you are accessing the Applicant Portal for the first time, please reference your email for log-in instructions. Please allow seven to 10 business days for the receipt of your Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR), test scores and other credentials to be added to your application file. Immigration Requirements When your academic, language and financial abilities are certified, the Office of Global Engagement will issue an I-20 or DS-2019 (Certificate of Eligibility). This document is to be taken to a U.S. Consulate to apply for a nonimmigrant student visa. Form DS-2019 (J-1 exchange visitor visa certificate) will be issued to students who are funded by their home government or by an international organization. If no organizational sponsor is involved, an I-20 (F-1 student visa certificate) will be issued. Students are responsible for maintaining legal status with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security during their studies. International students who are transferring from another school in the United States will be issued visa documents at the time of their enrollment at Clemson University. If the transfer student plans to leave the United States for a brief visit to his or her home country before coming to Clemson, the student must notify the Office of Global Engagement before departing the United States. Questions regarding immigration issues should be directed to the Office of Global Engagement. Health Insurance The University requires international students, their spouses and dependents living in the United States to have a minimum of $50,000 in health insurance coverage including medical evacuation and repatriation. Health insurance is available through the University. An insurance waiver for existing comparable insurance is coordinated through Redfern Health Center. Student Services The Office of Global Engagement services international students on campus. It shares responsibility for processing all international acceptances and serves as a liaison between the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and all internationals on campus. Transfer of Funds Upon admission to Clemson, the Office of International Services will work with students to obtain verification that sufficient funds are available for the student’s entire educational tenure at Clemson. Consequently, all costs are paid at the beginning of each semester or term (August, January and May of each year). There are no scholarships for international undergraduates at Clemson. In addition, deferred payment privileges are not extended to international students. Please consider this when applying to your home government for transfer of funds to the United States. Employment Generally, U.S. immigration regulations prohibit international students from working during their period of study. Therefore, students must have sufficient funds for the entire length of time they will study in the United States. International undergraduates may participate in Clemson’s Cooperative Education program if required by the academic program, which affords participants the opportunity to alternate semesters of work and study in order to gain practical work experience. Sister-State Agreements Clemson University is pleased to offer resident (in-state) tuition to citizens of the following countries and states. Applicants must be admitted to a program at Clemson University and must demonstrate citizenship in the country/state. The tuition benefit is applicable throughout all years of study in a program. State of Rhineland-Palatinate/Rhineland-Pfalz, Germany State of Thuringia, Germany State of Brandenburg, Germany State of Queensland, Australia Province of Taiwan, Republic of China Apply to Clemson as an International Student Application Deadlines How to Apply to Clemson What We Look For First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants All International Applicants After You Apply Immigration Requirements Health Insurance Student Services Transfer of Funds Employment Sister-State Agreements Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson