HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Vendors, Sub-Contractors, & Construction Workers Parking Permits VENDOR PARKING With construction booming across campus, we will be assigning parking areas for vendors. There is now an application and approval process for all vendors that need a permit for longer than one week. Vendors must be registered with the Clemson University Procurement Office in order to qualify for a vendor parking permit. As always, vehicles parked inside a construction fence are not required to display a university parking permit. Parking will be assigned in one of the following areas: Service Vehicle spaces with a 2 hour limit - Permits are $200 annually or $50 per month. Loading/Unloading zones with a 2 hour limit - Permits are $200 annually or $50 per month. Employee and/or other parking spaces or areas as assigned - Permits are $200. Metered parking is also available subject to posted limits provided the permit is displayed and your time is paid for. Please complete the Vendor Permit Application to apply for a permit(s). Once your application is reviewed and approved, you will be notified to come to our office to purchase and pick up your new permit(s). A method of payment (cash, credit, or check) is required in order to receive your permits. SUB-CONTRACTOR AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING Subcontractors will be required to purchase the construction permits that are only valid for parking in P-4 or they may borrow the vendor permit(s) from their approved vendor. Permits are $88 valid Aug 16, 2020 - Aug. 15, 2021 or $28 per month with a start date based on the project. Sub-Contractors and Construction Workers should complete the Parking Permit Application to apply for a permit(s). Employees of primary service contractors to Clemson University (i.e. Aramark, GCA, Ricoh, and Wendy's), are eligible to purchase employee permits with proper documentation. Eligible people work daily at Clemson University but are not hired directly by the University. View more information on permits for Service Workers here. View parking citation rates here. Parking and Transportation Services G01 Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster