Columbia University in the City of New York Office of the University Registrar Related Services for Students Student Service Center ID Center Student Financial Services CUMC Registration & Financial Services Finance CourseWorks Environmental Stewardship Dining Event Management Faculty House Health Housing Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Print Transportation Profile: Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez Law School Selects Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez for Campbell Award Profile: Linda Fried School of Public Health Dean, Linda Fried, Awarded Kober Medal for Study of Healthy Aging Search form Search News Forms About Us Academic Calendar Master Course Schedule and Calendar Wait Lists Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period Registration and Enrollment Registrar Classrooms Exams Grades Graduation and Diplomas Transcripts and Certifications Faculty and Staff Personal Information Policies and Regulations Registrar Forms Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) Academic Certification Request Application for Degree or Certificate Request for Transcript Application for Replacement of Diploma Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information Name Change Affidavit Text Resize -A +A Quick LinksAcademic CalendarMaster Course Schedule and CalendarWait ListsPost-Change of Program Add/Drop PeriodRegistration and Enrollment - Registration Dates - Registering for Classes and Appointment Times - Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty - Cross-Registration -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Barnard College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Jewish Theological Seminary -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Teachers College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Union Theological Seminary - Dropping Courses - Withdrawal -- Refund Rate for Withdrawals - Registration Holds - Advising - School Bulletins - Auditing ProgramsRegistrar Classrooms - Classroom Scheduling -- Classroom Descriptions - Registrar-Managed Classrooms - Building Codes - Protocol for Classroom RelocationExams - Final Exam SchedulesGrades - Grading System - Grade Options - Grade Point AverageGraduation and Diplomas - Diploma Replacement - Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use InternationallyTranscripts and Certifications - Transcripts - Certifications - Third Party Ordering - Release of Academic Information for Deceased Students - Information for ParentsFaculty and Staff - Class Rosters - Departmental Access - Academic Advising ResourcesPersonal Information - Name Changes -- Preferred Name FAQ - NameCoach - Withhold or Reverse Withholding... - Solomon AmendmentPolicies and Regulations - Privacy Rights (FERPA) -- Parents -- FERPA for Faculty & Staff - Central Administration of Academic Programs - Codes for Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) - Retention of Student Education Records - Standard Transcript NotationsRegistrar Forms - Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) - Academic Certification Request - Application for Degree or Certificate - Request for Transcript - Application for Replacement of Diploma - Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information - Name Change Affidavit Home > Registrar Forms > Application for Degree or Certificate Application for Degree or Certificate In order to be considered for a degree or certificate, all students must file an Application for Degree or Certificate. Exceptions: Doctoral and M. Phil candidates should go to their department or follow instructions from the GSAS Dissertation Office instead. (Note: Doctoral students must deposit their dissertation at least a week before the conferral date in order to graduate.) Students at Teachers College and Barnard College must use forms issued by their own schools. For more information, please contact the Barnard Registrar or the Teachers College Registrar. Submitting the Degree/Certificate Application: You should submit the Application for Degree or Certificate by the appropriate deadline. When a deadline for application falls on a weekend or holiday, the deadline moves to the next business day. Please allow at least a month for processing. Graduation dates are listed on the Academic Calendar and on the Registrar's website under Graduation and Diplomas. Names: Unless you explicitly indicate to us otherwise, your diploma will be printed under your legal full name. You can verify the presentation of your name on SSOL under the "Academic Profile" rubric. If you wish to make changes to the name that will display on your diploma, you may do so by writing to the Office of the Registrar at [email protected]. Please keep the following guidelines in mind: A change to your middle name can be made simply upon request without the need for additional paperwork. Any changes to your last name must be requested via Name Change Affidavit with the appropriate accompanying documents and forms of ID. The Office of the Registrar can accommodate printing a preferred first name on a diploma without the need for a Name Change Affidavit. Should you wish to have your preferred name printed on the diploma, simply write to diploma[email protected] for further guidance. If you want to make changes to your first name on your official academic record (i.e., changing the name that will print on the transcripts and academic certifications), you will need to submit the Name Change Affidavit and all accompanying documentation. Please direct any questions about names and academic records to either [email protected] or [email protected]. General Submission Deadlines Morningside Students Graduating In: Apply By: October September 1 February November 1 May December 1 Medical Center Students Graduating In: Apply By: October August 1 February December 1 May/June February 1 Application For Degree or Certificate (PDF) The form must be submitted electronically to [email protected] . In the subject line, please indicate the month you plan to graduate. For instance: Application for October Degree or Application for February Degree or Application for May Degree. Diplomas will be ordered and mailed by the printer after the conferral date. It will take a few weeks to complete the process so it’s important that we have an address on file for you which will be current for at least a couple of months after graduation. If you need to update your address, you may do so through Student Services Online (SSOL) anytime until 5 p.m. on the Monday before graduation – please be sure to select the DP (Diploma) address option. Your diploma will be sent to the DP address which is on file for you that Monday. You may check the status of your degree application in SSOL. Please note that during peak times, it may take several weeks for your status to be updated in SSOL after you submit your application. Additional information about graduation requirements may be found here. Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) Academic Certification Request Application for Degree or Certificate Request for Transcript Application for Replacement of Diploma Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information Name Change Affidavit Registrar Highlights Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Directory of Classes Vergil FERPA and Personal Information Graduation and Diplomas Grades and Exams SSOL Office of the University Registrar | 210 Kent Hall, MC 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 | [email protected]