Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » IMAP - Microcredentials Skill Up! With the Ohio Individual Microcredential Assistance Program (IMAP) Now's the time to jump start your career in IT and take advantage of no-cost training at UC. If you are an Ohio resident who is low income, partially unemployed, or totally unemployed, this program is for you. The University of Cincinanti will cover all tuition, fees, and additional costs to help you learn new skills and earn a credential that can lead to a good job! Apply for no-cost training for in-demand tech skills! SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION Next session coming soon! Submit your application to get started. The UC IMAP program is in partnership with the state of Ohio Governor's Office of Workforce Transformation. Upcoming IMAP Courses: Introduction to IT right arrow down arrow Certificate: Google IT Support Professional This hands-on introduction to IT course uses the Google IT Support Professional Certificate, developed by Google and hosted by the Coursera online learning platform. There are thousands of open entry-level IT-related jobs in the Cincinnati region, and this program will provide you with the requisite knowledge and experience necessary to find work immediately in several types of IT-related roles. No experience is necessary for this program. 15 weeks, 20 hrs/week Online Instruction (Self-paced with Instructor Guidance) Support from UC instructors and Teaching Assistants Weekly virtual check-ins and office hours Instructor: Kenny R. Pope Assistant Professor Educator, Acad Aff Exp Based Learning/Career Educ 830H Steger Student Life Cntr 513-556-0328 popeko@ucmail.uc.edu Kenny Pope is a first-year doctoral student in Educational Studies, Educational Policy and Higher Education track and is advised by Dr. Antar Tichavakunda. He currently works as a faculty member in the Division of Experiential Learning and Career Based Education (ELCE) here at UC. Kenny's research interest are focused on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Information Technology. He has a B.A from Wittenberg University in Springfield, Ohio and a Master's in Education from the George Washington University in Washington, DC. Kenny is a Cincinnati native who enjoys traveling the world, playing golf, coaching baseball, cheering on the Bearcats and all sports related video game competitions, especially virtual reality. View Full Profile Data Entry & Storage right arrow down arrow Certificate: Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) Associate for Excel This course will cover the fundamentals of creating and managing worksheets and workbooks, creating cells, ranges, and tables, applying formulas and functions, and creating charts and objects. Participants will be sufficiently proficient to address managing data import and export, cleaning and entering data, understanding advanced functions, analyzing and presenting data, conditional formatting, basic charts and pivot tables. Asynchronous classes–you learn at your own pace. Live office hours 2 hours per week Full practice test. Microsoft Excel 2019 and PC is required. Course includes taking the MO-200 certification exam Instructor: Nikki J N Holden Instructor - Educator, CECH - School of Information Technology 260C Teachers College 513-556-5435 holdens@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Cloud Technology right arrow down arrow Certificate: Azure Fundamentals Whether you’re new to the field or a seasoned professional, mastering the basics in Microsoft Azure can help you jump-start your career and prepare you to dive deeper into the many technical opportunities Azure offers. The certification validates your basic knowledge of cloud services and how those services are provided with Azure. Candidates should be able to demonstrate a fundamental knowledge of cloud concepts, along with Azure services, workloads, security, privacy, pricing, and support. 30 hours per week online instruction. The course is self-paced with instructor support. Weekly check-ins and office hours. Support from UC instructors and Teaching Assistants Weekly Virtual Panels Certificate curriculum, plus communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills Course includes taking the MS AZ-900 certificate exam, after assessment Instructor: Bander Ali Henderson Instructor - Educator, CECH - School of Information Technology Teachers College 513-556-2513 hendeba@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Certificate: Azure Data Fundamentals In Azure Fundamentals, you will gain the foundational knowledge of cloud services for a career in IT. This course is intended for non-technical candidates who want to understand the cloud-based solutions for offering services such as sales, purchasing, and marketing of cloud services. This course prepares you for the AZ-900 exam. Asynchronous instruction, with live office hours. 4 weeks, 20 hrs/week, online instruction. Includes weekly assignments, hands-on labs. Taught by UC faculty includes certification curriculum and communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills training. Course includes taking the MS DP-900 exam Instructor: Dyllon James Dekok Assistant Professor Educator, CECH - School of Information Technology Teachers College 513-556-5084 dekokdj@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Organization of IT Services right arrow down arrow Certificate: ITILv4 Foundation This three-day course will provide knowledge of the ITIL® terminology, structure, and basic concepts and comprehension of the core principles of ITIL® practices for service management. You will review key concepts of service manager and how value creation is enabled through services. Three-day Bootcamp, 9 am-5 pm on Wednesday, Thursday & Friday. Live Online Instruction. Course includes access to all content via Peoplesoft. Course includes taking the ITILv4 certification exam Instructor: Mark Romito, CISA, CISM, ITIL 4 Foundation & MPT- ITIL® Accredited Trainer An accomplished IT Business leader with a proven track record. Mark has a competent passion for ITSM best practices and solutions surrounding business processes, InfoSec, tactical process standard, and execution. Cybersecurity right arrow down arrow Certificate: CompTIA Security+ This an international, vendor-neutral certification that validates the baseline skills necessary to perform core security functions and pursue IT security careers. Security+ emphasizes hands-on practical skills, ensuring the security professional is better prepared to problem solve a wider variety of issues. It focuses on the latest trends and techniques in risk management, risk mitigation, threat management and intrusion detection. 4 weeks, 30 hours per week online instruction Support from UC instructors and Teaching Assistants Weekly Virtual Panels Certificate curriculum, plus communication, critical thinking, and problem solving skills Course includes taking the SYO-601 Note: Students who earn CompTIA Security+ Certification and enroll in the UC BSIT Degree can seek Prior Learning Assessment and may earn credit for IT-related courses. Instructor: Murat Ozer Assistant Professor, School of Information Technology, CECH - School of Information Technology 150B Teachers College 513-556-8423 ozermm@ucmail.uc.edu Murat Ozer, Ph.D. is an Assistant Professor in the School of Criminal Justice with a joint affiliation in the School of Information Technology, which is his main appointment. View Full Profile Personal Website Website User Experience & Design right arrow down arrow Certificate: Google Professional Certificate for UX/UI Individuals trained in User Experience and User Interface are in high demand. Experienced designers focus on the interaction that users have with products, like websites, apps, and physical objects. They make those everyday interactions useful, enjoyable, and accessible. Gain in-demand skills that will prepare you for an entry-level job. Asynchronus online, self-paced 10 hours per week You can complete the certificate in less than 6 months. IT Workflow right arrow down arrow Certificate: DevOps Foundation® This course is designed for a broad audience, enabling those on the business side of an organization to obtain an understanding of the benefits of DevOps concepts such as continuous delivery, continuous deployment and the associated enabling technologies. Those on the technical side of an organization to obtain an understanding of the business value of DevOps to reduce cost with increased quality to support business objectives in support of digital transformation initiatives. 16 hours. Live Online Instruction with Instructor Learner Manual (excellent post-class reference) Participation in our in-class GAME ON! An Interactive Learning Experience® Course includes option to take the DevOps Foundation certification test. Website Design right arrow down arrow Certificate: Adobe Certified Associate: Photoshop In this intermediate level course, students prepare for the Visual Design Using Adobe Photoshop CC certification exam. Emphasis is placed on raster design applications, terminology and technical skills as they impact visual aesthetics. Project work creating and editing images for the web and print, and client interaction. This class will build on student’s previous knowledge of Adobe Photoshop. Classes will meet online, biweekly for 4 weeks Instructor led tutorials and demonstrations Weekly interactive critiques of projects that demonstrate application of knowledge Course includes taking the ACA Photoshop certificate exam Certificate: Adobe Certified Associate: Illustrator In this intermediate-level course, students prepare for the Graphic Design, and Illustration Adobe CC Certified Associate certification exam. Emphasis is placed on vector design applications, terminology, and technical skills as they impact visual aesthetics. Project work includes creating scalable graphics for web and print. This class will build on student’s previous knowledge of Adobe Illustrator. Class will meet online and twice a week for four weeks Instructor-led tutorials and demonstrations Weekly interactive critiques of projects that demonstrate the application of knowledge Course includes taking the ACA Illustrator certificate exam Instructor: Libby Sills MA.Ed, Instructor/Educator Certified Adobe Associate Libby is an Instructor at the Cincinnati School for the Creative and Performing Arts. She is a Certified Adobe Associate in Print & Digital Media Publication-Adobe InDesign, Digital Communication-Photoshop, Graphic Design & Illustration-Illustrator. IMAP success stories: Fill out your application now! The application form takes approximately 4 minutes to fill out. You may be eligible for this program is you are: A resident of Ohio Currently unemployed, underemployed or low income An individual looking to make a career change SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION As a graduate of this program, you will have access to career development tools and services to help you get a good job! Students who complete our programs gain access to exclusive job boards, resume review tools, personal branding tools, and career guidance including resume reviews, networking, and interview skills through UC's NEXT Apprenticeship Program. FAQ's What is required to participate in the course? right arrow down arrow Our courses are all live, online, and instructor-led, so a working computer and reliable internet connection is required. Attendance is also required. Will I be able to find a job by getting certified in one or more of these courses? right arrow down arrow The certifications offered through the IMAP program are in high-demand by organizations in the marketplace. Having one or more of these certifications can definitely help you find a new or a better job. In addition, as a graduate of this program, UC offers career support services through our NEXT Apprenticeship Program. I understand the training is free, but are there any other costs to me? right arrow down arrow No cost to you for the program training or exam fees. Do I need any specific background or experience to take these courses? right arrow down arrow There are no formal requirements. Some understanding of IT is helpful, but not necessary. Can I use these courses to switch my career to IT? right arrow down arrow The foundational courses can prepare you for a entry level position in IT. Depending on your interests, you may want to include other courses to develop your expertise for a higher-level position. Can I enroll in the IMAP program if I am not an Ohio resident? right arrow down arrow No, this program is for Ohio residents only. Can I take more than one of the courses listed? right arrow down arrow Yes. You are entitled to take any number of courses in the IMAP program, as long as they are relevant to your background and goals. Am I committed to anything by enrolling in any of these courses? right arrow down arrow Yes. We expect you to attend the full course, do the studying necessary, and and take the certification exam. What happens if I fail the certification exam? right arrow down arrow The IMAP program covers only one exam attempt. If you fail your exam on the first try, you can take a subsequent attempt by covering the actual cost of the certification exam. If you have any questions, please reach out to us at: imap@uc.edu University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top