Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program> Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship Training Model and Philosophy Our vision for the Doctoral Internship in Psychology is to develop health service psychologists with the conceptual and clinical competencies necessary to deliver psychological services in a manner that is effective and responsive to individual and societal needs, both now and in the future. We believe that sensitivity to individual differences and cultures in a diverse society and openness to self-reflection and life-long learning are necessary to bring these all together. We will emphasize internship learning as a relational and reciprocal process, with an emphasis on the process versus the content of learning and valuing the use of self and creativity. This training approach to clinical work is trans-theoretical, multi-cultural, and process-oriented. Growth comes by attention to the process of interns’ work, as well as attention to their personhood. We are helping interns to find their own path as a clinician and as a professional. So, our overall training focus for Interns will be exploring and discovering answers to the two questions: “Who am I as a therapist?” “How am I therapeutic?” In this manner interns shall explore both the self-awareness/self-reflection part of a therapeutic alliance and the ways they express these parts of themselves in skills and techniques. Answering these questions, on a continual basis is vital to the process of becoming a therapist and a psychologist. Training Themes We offer a generalist training experience at a college counseling center that integrates science and practice throughout the program and trains future Health Service Psychologists to serve a diverse public. Our training is primarily experiential in nature. We value diversity and incorporate ways to build on cultural competency experiences throughout the program. We value a Relational Cultural model as a unifying philosophy for the change and growth process in supervision. We incorporate ethical discussion and decision-making throughout the program. We provide ongoing assessment of skills with increasing levels of responsibility and independence. We strive for continuous improvement in our training approaches and will be asking for your input on a regular basis. Sample Week The following is a sample workweek, which may vary by semester or according to the Center’s or interns’ needs or preferences. Total hours in any given week are typically 40, with occasional exceptions: Direct Service: 20-22 hours 14 -16 hours Individual Counseling 2 hours Group Work (includes ½ hour supervision) 2 hours Walk-in Clinic (initial consultations / crises) 2 hours Providing supervision to a Practicum Student 0-3 hours Crisis Phone Coverage: 0-3 estimated hours of actual crisis calls while on-call – only on-call for one week, every 4-7 weeks. Indirect Service: 3-4 hours 1 hour Preparation for supervision 1 hour Consultation role to practicum case conference 1 hour Intern Connection Hour (1 x month) 1 hour Outreach Program Delivery (variable) Training: 9-12 hours 2.0 hours Individual Supervision (with licensed psychologist) 1.0 hours Intern Case Consultation (group supervision) 2.0 hours Supervision of Supervision 2.0 hours Intern Didactic Seminar (2 hours weekly) 1.0 hours Intern Diversity Seminar (average) 0.5 hours Supervision for Group Therapy 1.0 hours Supervision for Diversity Outreach Partnership (variable) Administrative: 6 hours 2.0 hour Treatment Team Staff Meeting 4.0 hours Administrative/records Professional Development: Variable Varies greatly by week and time of semester: research, attending conferences, presenting, leading trainings and workshops, etc… Minimum Internship Requirements The following are the minimum requirements for successful completion of the internship: 1. A full-time, 2,000 Hour Internship Employment must be completed. 2. 500 Direct Service Hours: Direct service includes individual and group counseling, crisis intervention, consultation with clients or concerned family members/staff/faculty, providing outreach services, providing supervision, leading a psycho-educational training to trainees or staff & conducting assessments. 3. Successful Completion of Trauma Recovery Supervision Group experience. 4. Successful Completion of Diversity Outreach Partnership. 5. Successful Completion of Outreach Expectations: Interns will work to complete expectations under the supervision of the Outreach Coordinator. 6. Intern Log of Hours: Interns will document internship hours and direct service requirements. 7. Co-Facilitation of a Group with a Senior Staff Member: At a minimum, interns are required to co-facilitate at least one group during their internship year. 8. Successful Attainment of Minimum Levels of Achievement (MLA) for both profession wide and site-specific competencies: as measured by Intern Competency Evaluation Form. 9. Complete all written records and reports (including progress notes, assessment reports, intern logs, intern project summary, etc.). 10. Complete all required evaluations of supervisors and the training program. 11. Participate fully in Clinical, Diversity, and Professional Development Seminars. 12. Participate fully in preparation and training of new graduate trainees in June and July, by working with Coordinator of Practicum Training. 13. Attend and participate in the Texas Intern Conference. 14. Attend and submit presentation/workshop proposal to Texas University & College Counseling Centers Conference: present if accepted. 15. Participate fully on Intern Selection Committee. 16. Participate fully in Capstone Presentations, including Professional Case Presentations, Diversity Outreach Partnership presentation, and training workshops. 17. Join and participate fully, in June and July, in counseling center or student-life summer work-committee, expanded walk-in hours, shared book readings, and other expanded training activities. Clinical Activities Individual Counseling Interns see up to 16 individual clients per week. The Baylor Counseling Center functions primarily within a short-term counseling model. Interns will have the option of seeing 2 clients over a longer period for the training experience of doing some in-depth clinical work. This will be determined in a discussion with their primary supervisor. Group Counseling The Counseling Center offers a variety of groups throughout the year. Examples include Mindfulness, Substance Abuse, Trauma Recovery Group, Creative Arts Process, Social Confidence, Interpersonal Process, etc… Interns are required to co-lead at least one group with a staff member. Initial Assessment Sessions Students who are coming to the Baylor Counseling Center for the first time are asked to attend an initial consultation session as a way of entering the system – called an Initial Assessment. The therapist on initial assessment duty then conducts an assessment interview. Interns will each cover 2-4 hours weekly of initial assessment time. Counselors may also see crises during this time as it serves as our entry point for all types of concern. 4. Consultation Services: The Counseling Center staff offers strategies for connecting a student with the Counseling Center or another support service. 5. Workshops: The Counseling Center provides various workshops to address issues that college students often experience. 6. After Hours, On-Call/Crisis Intervention The Baylor Counseling Center provides formal after-hours emergency services. Staff, interns, and practicum students all provide this coverage on a rotating basis for a week at a time. Interns will be the first contact by phone, with senior staff serving as support, supervisors, and back up for the next line of phone contact. After-hours on-call coverage is done by phone. Therapists assess the concern and provide appropriate interventions. 7. Practicum Supervision The Baylor Counseling Center provides practicum experience for doctoral graduate students in clinical psychology from the Baylor University Psy.D. Program Interns provide this supervision experience, first co-supervising with senior staff and then gradually providing more and more of the supervision on their own. As part of their supervisory duties, interns are responsible for both the client care and the professional development of the practicum student. This will include reviewing videotapes. Interns as supervisors in training are also responsible for reviewing all practicum trainee case notes. Practicum supervision by each intern is supervised in the Supervision of Supervision Seminar and 2) through the Tridactic-Supervision Model. Supervision Activities Individual Supervision Strong supervision is a highlight of our training program and we believe it to be the most essential element of what we offer. Each intern receives 2 hours per week of regularly scheduled supervision from a licensed psychologist. Additional unscheduled supervision and consultation with the supervisor and other staff members are available and encouraged. Although individual supervision may focus primarily on an intern’s counseling cases, diversity, ethics and other professional issues are valuable parts of these discussions. Supervision of Group Counseling During the training year, interns will co-lead a group with a staff member. This co-leader serves as the supervisor for the intern’s group therapy activities, meeting for approximately one half hour immediately preceding and/or following each group session. This supervision provides interns the opportunity to discuss dynamics, content and interventions specific to the group they are co-leading, as well as discuss group therapy dynamics and interventions in general. Supervision of Supervision This weekly meeting combines a supervision training seminar with group supervision of practicum students. The seminar meets for 2.0 hours each week and focuses on developing supervisory skills. Topics for the didactic portion of the seminar include supervision models, supervisory roles and process, ethics, cross-cultural supervision, etc. Supervision of Supervision provides interns a setting in which to share and discuss their experiences as supervisors, review tape, and engage in didactic training. Intern Case Consultation Interns will meet together with clinical staff members for 1.0 hours each week to watch video and discuss in detail one or more clients/cases. The Case Consultation involve writing a conceptualization, researching a relevant journal article, and sharing video footage for discussion. Interns will each have a 6 week opportunity each semester to share video of the same client, weekly, with a small group of clinical staff, exploring the clinical work with an emphasis on multicultural counseling and attention to issues of diversity. Seminars Diversity Training Seminar The Diversity Seminar will meet, weekly for the first 6 to 8 weeks of the semester, and combine didactic with experiential and discussion activities on topics related to diversity and developing cultural humility and multicultural competencies. Some weeks this seminar may be replaced by special opportunities such as a visiting presenter, outside workshops on diversity, or attending a conference. Interns will develop and present their own diversity seminars during the late spring and summer, as a capstone training experience. These may be a part of training incoming practicum students. Didactic Training Seminar The Didactic Training Seminar is an educational seminar that provides interns with training and information about a variety of professional issues and topics of therapeutic relevance. This is a 2 hour weekly seminar presented by Baylor Counseling Center staff, other Baylor University faculty and staff, and professionals from the surrounding community. Some weeks, this seminar may be replaced by a special opportunity such as an outside presenter or attending a conference or workshop. Capstone Professional Development Presentations During the summer months, interns create and lead several presentations designed to help them consolidate and showcase their professional skills. This is part of the developmental transition from trainee to professional. Interns provide professional presentations in the areas of diversity, clinical topics, case presentation, and theory of change. Many of these presentations are created to help train practicum students for counseling center work. Focused Training Experiences Outreach Training Experiences Baylor Counseling Center staff are asked to provide staff development programs for other departments, present seminars or workshops for student groups, and provide other outreach services on campus. Interns will be expected to contribute to the mission of the BUCC by assisting with outreach efforts throughout the academic year. This may include tabling at campus events, promoting BUCC services, providing training for students or faculty/staff on mental health topics and engaging in afterhours outreach events. The Outreach Coordinator will provide supervision and support but the intern is expected to show initiative and responsibility. The Coordinator of Outreach Services provides a biannual evaluation of the intern’s development of this competency, as well as yearlong consultation and support. Diversity and Multicultural Training Experiences We highly value diversity and developing multicultural competencies. Interns will engage in experiences that develop these competencies. These experiences include their clinical work, as well as trainings, presentations, supervision, outreach, etc… The interns will discuss their developmental stage of diversity awareness and cross-cultural competency with the Coordinator of Multicultural Services and Coordinator of Outreach. Interpersonal Violence and Trauma Intervention We are highly invested in the education, prevention, support, and appropriate treatment for students in the areas of interpersonal violence, and trauma. Interns may engage in experiences that support the mission and work of the counseling center on campus in this area, as appropriate and as available. The Coordinator of Trauma Recovery Services and the Trauma Recovery Supervision Group are the key parts of this training. Clinical Supervision of a Practicum Student Training interns to become skilled clinical supervisors is a highlight of our training program. We use a Relational Cultural approach within a co-supervision model with the training staff mentoring and empowering interns to hone their skills of being a supervisor. They will meet weekly with their practicum supervisee for one semester, participate in a 2 hour weekly supervision-of-supervision, and provide consultation in the weekly practicum case conference. Internship Highlights Year-Long Fall Semester Spring Semester Summer Client Caseload Triadic Practicum Supervision (Fall OR Spring) Triadic Practicum Supervision (Fall OR Spring) Capstone Experiences Diversity Focus Training Incoming Practicum Students Outreach Focus Group Co-Facilitation 2nd Group Co-Facilitation (Optional) Committee Work Supervision Training Intern Case Consultation Intern Case Consultation Running a group (if available) Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Practicum Case Consultation Practicum Case Consultation Additional Experiences: Intern Selection Committee Practicum Selection Process Funds to attend/present at Texas University & College Counseling Center Conference (based on availability) Funds to attend Texas Intern Conference Funds to attend Social Justice Conference (based on availability) APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health