Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Research Graduate Students Research Areas People Faculty by Type Research and Academic Professionals Administrative Staff Advisory Council CBE Industry Council Facilities Cornell Energy Systems Institute (CESI) Olin Hall Machine Shop Unit Operations Lab Alumni Olin Hall News Alumni Spotlights Robert F. Smith '85 Class Photos Giving Events and Initiatives Job Openings Distinguished Lectures Diversity and Inclusion Program Graduate Alumni Reunion Robert Frederick Smith Gift: Impact and Initiatives Open the search panel Menu Search Close Jefferson W. Tester David Croll Sesquicentennial Fellow and Professor Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 230A Olin Hall 607/254-7211 jwt54@cornell.edu Back to Directory Biography Dr. Tester is a professor of sustainable energy systems in the Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Cornell University. He also serves as principal scientist for Cornell’s Earth Source Heat project. Dr. Tester is a Croll Energy Fellow and a Fellow in the Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future. Prior to his appointment at Cornell in 2009, Dr. Tester was the H.P. Meissner Professor of Chemical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he served as Director of MIT's Energy Laboratory (1989-2001) and Director of MIT's School of Chemical Engineering Practice (1980-1989). His research on geothermal and biomass energy extraction and conversion and environmental control technologies has resulted in over 300 scientific publications and 13 co-authored books. Dr. Tester is a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and was a member of the IPCC's Working Group on Renewable Energy Sources, and advisory boards of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the American Council of Renewable Energy, and Idaho National Laboratory. Research Interests Energy/Resource Related Problems – Thermal-hydraulic processes for geothermal energy extraction in subsurface rock reservoirs - Geothermal reservoir engineering (tracer transport and rock–water interactions in fractured geothermal reservoirs) - Geothermal heat pumps for integrated cooling and heating applications - Deep drilling in hard rock using chemical-assisted hydrothermal jets - Recovery of critical energy materials using supercritical fluid extraction - Thermochemical liquefaction and gasification processing of waste biomass feedstocks – Integrated energy systems analysis of renewable biomass and geothermal including life cycle and technoeconomic assessment Applied Thermodynamics and Kinetics – Chemical kinetics in supercritical fluids - Molecular simulations of condensed matter - Properties of aqueous organic and electrolyte mixtures for thermal energy storage and power cycle applications - Rock-water interactions in hydrothermal environments - Salt crystallization/dissolution phenomena in supercritical water - Crystallization/dissolution phenomena in supercritical water Energy and the Environment Energy Systems Sustainable Energy Systems Heat and Mass transfer Statistical Mechanics and Molecular SimulationResearch Group Members Teaching Interests Energy systems analysis methods, renewable energy and fossil energy technologies, emphasis on applying quantitative methods using thermodynamic, kinetic and transport fundamentals in the context of scalable practical energy processes operating under environmental and economic constraints. Selected Publications Hawkins, A.J., D.B. Fox, M.W. Becker, and J.W. Tester, “Measurement and simulation of heat exchange in fractured bedrock using inert and thermally degrading tracers,” Water Resources Research 53, 1210-1230 (February 2017). Zurmuhl, D.P., M.Z. Lukawski, G.A. Aguirre, W.R. Law, G.P. Schnaars, K.F. Beckers, C.L. Anderson, and J.W. Tester, “Hybrid geothermal heat pumps for cooling telecommunications data centers, Energy and Buildings 188-189, pp 120-128 (April 1, 2019). Kassem, N., D. Sills, R. Posmanik, C. Blair, and J.W. Tester, “Combining anaerobic digestion and hydrothermal liquefaction in the conversion of dairy waste into energy: A techno economic model for New York State,” Waste Management 103, 228-239 (February 15, 2020). Beentjes, I., J.T. Bender, A.J. Hawkins, and J.W. Tester, “Chemical dissolution drilling of Barre granite using a sodium hydroxide enhanced supercritical water jet,” Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering 53, 483-496 (2020). Tester, J.W., S. Beyers, J.O. Gustafson, T.E. Jordan, J.D. Smith, J. Al Aswad, K.F. Beckers, R. Allmendinger, L. Brown, F. Horowitz, D. May, T.M. Khan, and M. Pritchard, “District geothermal heating using EGS technology to meet carbon neutrality goals: A case study of earth source heat for the Cornell University campus,” Proceedings of the World Geothermal Congress 2020, Reykjavik, Iceland (April 26 – May 2, 2020). Selected Awards and Honors Excellence in Teaching Award (College of Engineering) 2013 Special Achievement Award (Geothermal Resources Council (GRC)) 2011 Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry 2010 Outstanding Faculty Member Award (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) 2004 Outstanding Faculty Member Award (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) 2001 Education B.S. (Chemical Engineering), Cornell University, 1966 M.S. (Chemical Engineering), Cornell University, 1967 Ph.D. (Chemical Engineering), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1971 Websites Tester Group Website Research Group Members Graduate Students Nazih Kassem nk644@cornell.edu Biological and Environmental Engineering Hanifrahmawan Sudibyo hs987@cornell.edu Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering In the News News Professor Jefferson Tester Quoted in Wall Street Journal on the Future of Renewable Energy March 24, 2022 The key to making geothermal competitive with other renewables, is “going into regions where nature hasn’t been so generous, and figuring out a way to engineer the system,” says Cornell University professor Jefferson Tester. He is chief scientist for a pilot project at Cornell that aims to directly heat the 30,000-person campus with geothermal resources by 2035. Read more about Professor Jefferson Tester Quoted in Wall Street Journal on the Future of Renewable Energy News Jeff Tester's comments featured in piece on "The Politics of Geothermal" February 15, 2022 “Geothermal electricity is always on ,” said Tester. “It can provide fully dispatchable power or heat and is scalable in the same way other renewables are.” Read more about Jeff Tester's comments featured in piece on "The Politics of Geothermal" News Professor Jeff Tester co-authors op-ed: The geothermal option — an opportunity not to be missed September 2, 2021 In the face of today’s complex challenges, Americans are seeking opportunities for positive change. Two key examples of major challenges are growing concerns about the impacts of climate change driven... Read more about Professor Jeff Tester co-authors op-ed: The geothermal option — an opportunity not to be missed More News About News Events Spotlights Contact Us Intranet Admissions: 607 255-8656 DEPT Address: 120 Olin Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance