Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Student Employment New Hires Student Employment Job Listings Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud New Hires Required Forms I-9 Process International (F-1) Students International (J-1) Students The following forms are required of all newly-hired University employees, including student employees: Form I-9 I-9 Instructions I-9 Supplement Complete Form I-9 and bring it, along with the appropriate original documentation, and a completed Payroll Form Statement to the Office of Student Services. Payroll Form Statement Read, complete, and sign this form if you are going to be a new student employee at Boston College. Bring it, along with a completed Form I-9 and appropriate original documentation, with you to the Office of Student Services. W-4 (Federal Withholding Form) Students working hourly-paid positions must send this completed and signed form to the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC). This form can also be accessed through the student's Agora Portal > PeopleSoft Human Resources > Self-Service > Payroll and Compensation once hire has been processed by employer and HRSC. M-4 (Massachusetts Withholding Form) Students working hourly-paid positions must send this completed and signed form to the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC). This form can also be accessed through the student's Agora Portal > PeopleSoft Human Resources > Self-Service > Payroll and Compensation once hire has been processed by employer and HRSC. Direct Deposit Enrollment Instructions Direct deposit is the electronic transfer of your current payroll amount from Boston College to the designated account(s) in the bank(s) or credit union(s) of your choice. Direct Deposit enrollment will be available on the student's Agora Portal after that student has been hired by their department and hire processed by the HRSC. Graduate students paid a monthly service stipend (i.e., teaching assistantships, graduate research assistantships) should complete their Form I-9 and Payroll Form Statement requirements at the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC). They must bring their W-4 and M-4 tax forms to their Dean's office or send it to the HRSC at 129 Lake Street, Brighton campus. Note: If you have been awarded Federal Work-Study and and are working under our Off-Campus Federal Work-Study program, you are also be required to compete the following forms: Off-Campus Federal Work-Study Hire/Rehire Form Off-Campus Agency Time Sheet (must be completed and submitted weekly) These completed forms should be brought to the Office of Student Services. Print Open All Close All Tax Forms Information Federal Tax Form (W-4) Determines the correct federal income tax withholding Allowances are no longer used for the redesigned 2020 Form W-4; cannot claim personal or dependency exemptions Complete Steps 1 and 5 on Form; complete Steps 2-4 ONLY if they apply to you Massachusetts Tax Form (M-4) Determines whether employee is exempt for state tax withholding If employee will not earn more than $8,000 annually then Box D is checked and no state tax is withheld Enter 0 or 1 on Line 1 if state tax is to be withheld Please contact the HRSC at (617) 552-4772 if you have any questions about payroll, tax withholding, or direct deposit. As a result of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, all new employees must complete an Employment Eligibility Verification Form (I-9) within three business days of starting employment and present original documents that evidence both identity and employment eligibility. Newly-hired, hourly-paid student employees must complete Section 1 of this Form and bring it with original documents to the Office of Student Services in Lyons Hall. A copy of the Form I-9 and Instructions are available on the Required Forms tab, as well as the University's Human Resources Forms page. The following list of documents was determined by the Department of Homeland Security, and students may present any document from List A or a combination of one document from List B and one document from List C. All documents must be unexpired. Print Open All Close All Documents that establish both identity and employment authorization: U.S. Passport or U.S. Passport Card Permanent Resident Card or Alien Registration Receipt Card (Form I-551) Foreign Passport that contains a temporary I-551 stamp or temporary I-551 printed notation on a machine-readable immigrant visa Employment Authorization Document that contains a photograph (Form I-766) For a nonimmigrant alien authorized to work for a specific employer because of his or her status: a. Foreign passport; and b. Form I-94 or Form I-94A that has the following: (1) The same name as the passport; and (2) An endorsement of the alien’s nonimmigrant status as long as that period of endorsement has not yet expired and the proposed employment is not in conflict with any restrictions or limitations identified on the form Passport from the Federal States of Micronesia (FSM) or the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) with Form I-94 or Form I-94A indicating nonimmigrant admission under the Compact of Free Association Between the United States and the FSM or RMI Documents that establish identity: Driver's license or ID card issued by a state or outlying possession of the U.S. provided it contains a photograph or information such as name, date of birth, gender, height, eye color, and address ID card issued by federal, state, or local government agencies or entities, provided it contains a photograph or information such as name, date of birth, gender, height, eye color, and address School ID card with a photograph Voter's registration card U.S. Military card or draft record Military dependent's ID card U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Card Native American tribal document Driver's license issued by a Canadian government authority For persons under age 18 who are unable to present a document listed above: School record or report card Clinic, doctor, or hospital record Day-care or nursery school record Documents that establish employment authorization: A Social Security Account Number card, unless the card includes one of the following restrictions: (1) NOT VALID FOR EMPLOYMENT (2) VALID FOR WORK ONLY WITH INS AUTHORIZATION (3) VALID FOR WORK ONLY WITH DHS AUTHORIZATION Certification of report of birth issued by the Department of State (Forms DS-1350, FS-545, FS-240) Original or certified copy of birth certificate issued by a state, county, municipal authority, or territory of the United States bearing an official seal Native American tribal document U.S. Citizen ID Card (Form I-197) Identification Card for Use of Resident Citizen in the United States (Form I-179) Employment authorization document issued by the Department of Homeland Security International students on F-1 visa are eligible to work on campus while enrolled in a degree-seeking program. International F-1 students are allowed to work until their scheduled graduation dates as shown on their academic record. Students must maintain legal F-1 status while engaging in on-campus student employment. International F-1 students who have secured on-campus student employment must complete a Form I-9, bringing original documentation, to the Office of Student Services. The following documents must be presented when completing the I-9: Unexpired Foreign Passport Form I-94 Form I-20 A letter of Employment Authorization from the BC Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) International F-1 students who receive a job offer from an on-campus employer must also apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) in order to be hired and paid. Please refer to the Social Security Administration website for more information and instructions on how to apply for a SSN. They must bring their Statement Concerning F-1 Student’s Application for Social Security Number (completed by their campus employers) along with all of the documents listed above when arriving at the local Social Security Office. Students will need to ask for a paper receipt showing that they have applied for a Social Security number. After applying for a SSN, the students will also need to stop by the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC) at 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus and bring that paper receipt, along with all the documents listed above, to the Foreign Tax Specialist. The HRSC can also assist international students with completing tax forms and any other required forms, but they should contact the HRSC at (617) 552-4772 to make sure the foreign tax specialist is available. More information for international students can be found at the OISS website. They are located at Thea Bowman House, 72 College Road. International students on a J-1 visa may work on campus as long as they are in good standing and are enrolled in a course of study at Boston College. International J-1 students can only work on campus during their specific authorized period. Those who have secured a job on campus must complete the Form I-9 requirement, bringing original documentation, to the Office of Student Services. The following documents must be presented when completing the I-9: Unexpired Foreign Passport Form I-94 Form DS-2019 indicating Student status and sponsored by Boston College If the J-1 student’s program sponsor is IIE (Fulbright), the student will need to obtain employment authorization from that sponsoring organization A letter of Employment Authorization from the BC Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) International J-1 students who receive a job offer from an on-campus employer must also apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) in order to be hired and paid. Please refer to the Social Security Administration website for more information, as well as the required documentation for applying for a SSN. They must bring all of the documents listed above. Once they apply for a SSN, the students need to ask for a paper receipt showing that they have applied for a SSN. After applying for a SSN, the students will also need to stop by the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC) at 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus and bring that paper receipt, along with all the documents listed above, to the Foreign Tax Specialist. The HRSC can also assist international students with completing tax forms and any other required forms, but they should contact the HRSC at (617) 552-4772 to make sure the foreign tax specialist is available. More information for international students can be found at the OISS website. They are located at Thea Bowman House, 72 College Road. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College