Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Learning Online: Tips for Students Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Penn provides numerous resources to help you navigate online learning successfully and be intentional about how you engage with your coursework and classmates. Stay up-to-date with Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources. Penn provides numerous resources to help you navigate online learning successfully and be intentional about how you engage with your coursework and classmates. Incorporate new strategies that help you learn online The Weingarten Learning Resources Center’s Quick Tips for Online Learning provides useful strategies for successful online learning. You’ll find tips for how to create a flexible schedule, participate actively, manage distractions, and taking productive screen breaks. You’ll also find tips to help you incorporate Proactive Time Management for Learning Online and handouts that help you break your to-do list into manageable chunks. Stay informed Check your Penn email frequently and set your Canvas notifications preferences. Your professors may use both to communicate information about course materials, instructions for completing coursework, invitations to real-time videoconferencing sessions, or other important class-related information. You have several options for receiving Canvas notifications including sending them to an additional email address, receiving them via text, and enabling push notifications in the Canvas Student app (iOS or Android). Consider subscribing to your Canvas calendar feed so that your Google or Outlook calendar contains assignments and events for your Canvas courses. Recommendations for setting Canvas notifications Set to Notify me right away Due Date (assignment due date changes) Announcement (new announcements) Grading (a grade is entered) Invitation (web conference, group, collaboration, and peer review) Optimize your technology tools Apply operating system and browser updates. Many of the tools your professors might use will work best if you apply operating system updates and download the latest versions of commonly used browsers. Keeping your system up-to-date helps to minimize technical issues. Consider reviewing Canvas’s supported browsers and basic computer specifications and downloading the Canvas Student app on your iOS or Android device. If you experience difficulties or don’t think you’ll be able to access or use a technology tool, let your professor or TAs know right away. Find additional support by reaching out to Student Remote IT Support. Get help Be patient with yourself. Get in touch with your professors and TAs if you run into challenges and know that it’s ok to ask for help. Penn offers a range of resources that you can call on during this challenging time. FAQs Academic Assistance Wellbeing Technology Assistance Fall Semester FAQ Contact your advisor or the advising office for your school Counseling & Psychological Services Student Remote IT Support Weingarten Learning Resources Center (Office of Learning Resources, Student Disability Services, and the Tutoring Center) Wellness at Penn Writing Center FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost