Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Engineering Technology Future Students Current Students Research People About Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Policies & Procedures Finance & Employment Student Societies Forms/Resources Take Action ET Degree Programs Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Engineering Technology Current Students Graduate Program Description ET Graduate Program SCOTT C. SOUTHALL, MS Chair Room 203 Technology Building (901) 678-3980 KEVIN BERISSO, Ph.D. Coordinator of Graduate Studies (901) 678-4300 E-Mail: kberisso@memphis.edu www.memphis.edu/et I. The Department of Engineering Technology offers a Master of Science degree in Engineering Technology. Individual emphasis can be developed in the curriculum areas of Computer, Electronics, or Manufacturing. The department also offers a graduate certificate in Applied Lean Leadership. Program objectives for the MS are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations, Academic Regulations, and Minimum Degree Requirements) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program A. Program Admissions Admission requirements of the College. B. Program Prerequisites Applicants must have a bachelor's degree, preferably in an appropriate area of Engineering or Engineering Technology. However, a bachelor's degree in an analytical field with professional experience in a related area is also acceptable. Candidates with deficiencies in their undergraduate work may be required to pass appropriate undergraduate courses with a C or better to supplement their body of knowledge. Basic competencies are reflected as prerequisites for courses, but may be waived with appropriate professional experience. All programs emphasize technical and analytical aspects that require strong command of math and science. Key competencies that are needed depend on the student's academic goals and possible focus areas. Examples include: Computer Engineering Technology courses expect students to already have competency in modern programming as well as basic electronics. Deficiencies may require additional preparation and course work. Modern programming using Java can be taken as a graduate course, TECH 6262, which can count toward the MS degree requirements. Basic electronics, however, may require preparation that includes completion of undergraduate course work that cannot be applied toward the MS semester hour requirement. Similarly, a focus in Electronics Engineering Technology will require familiarity with electronics prior to enrollment in graduate classes. Manufacturing Engineering Technology graduate courses expect a familiarity with industrial practices and operations. Course prerequisites are important, but may be fulfilled through experience or completion of appropriate 6000 level courses which may be applied to the MS semester hour requirement. No more than 9 semester hours of 6000 level course work can be applied toward the MS degree semester-hour requirement. C. Program Requirements Non-thesis (Project) option: A minimum of 33 semester hours. Students selecting the non-thesis option must complete TECH 7991, Projects I. Projects require a proposal before permits can be issued. Proposals are to provide insight into the scope, depth, and extent of work and how the project relates to coursework that has been completed. Permits must be provided by a graduate faculty member for a section they agree to administer. Thesis option: A minimum of 30 semester hours plus a minimum of 6 semester hours of thesis. Students must complete TECH 7996, Thesis, for six semester hours credit. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Each student must complete the following core courses: Statistics: TECH 7015 or PRST 7600 Technical writing: TECH 7020 or ENGL 7805 or ENGL 7808 Leadership: TECH 7105 or METH 6381. A minimum of 21 semester hours must be completed from graduate level courses in the Department of Engineering Technology. Courses taken in other colleges/departments, including those for core courses, cannot apply toward the specified minimum. Students may elect to establish an area of emphasis, but this is optional. Courses in each of the three traditional emphasis areas include courses from more than one focal area. Suggested courses in each of the emphasis areas include but are not limited to: Computer: TECH 6241, 6242, 6262, 6263, 6272, 6281, 7263, 7273, 7283, 7801, 7831, 7841. Electronics: TECH 6281, 6823, 7263, 7273, 7801, 7822, 7831, 7841. Manufacturing: TECH 6381, 6460, 6464, 6466, 6472, 6474, 6476, 7401, 7402, 7404, 7406, 7408, 7414, 7801, 7822. Students are encouraged to develop a plan that includes courses outside the department for a more cross-functional academic experience. While prior permission is required, electives can be selected from other departments in Herff College of Engineering and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics or the Department of Computer Science. Acceptable courses depend upon student-selected emphasis area as well as relevance to the student's academic and professional interest. Examples include the following courses by areas of emphasis: Computer Engineering Technology: COMP 6262, Programming Unix MIS 7605, Business Data Base Management COMP 7120, Cryptography/Data Security COMP 7125, Computer Forensics COMP 7150 Method/Comp Applications Manufacturing Engineering Technology ACCT 7110, Accounting for Decision Making SCMS 7080, Principles of Production and Operations SCMS 7310, Seminar in Production Operations Management No more than 9 semester hours of 6000-level courses will count toward the degree. Students cannot receive credit towards graduation for a 6000 level course if they had completed the 4000 cognate of that same course. E.g.: You cannot use TECH 6381 Supervision if you have already completed TECH 4381. Candidates for the degree must average a 3.0 in all Technology courses. Candidates for the degree must pass a comprehensive examination. Comprehensive examinations may be taken by students in good standing during the term in which core and concentration course work are completed. Exams are not given for TECH 7991, 7992, or 7993. The comprehensive written examination will be administered Monday of the tenth week of classes during the fall and spring semesters. A follow-up oral examination is optional with the examining committee. Graduate assistantships will not be awarded to students enrolled in TECH 7993, Internship, unless the combined hours of student work is fewer than 20 hours per week. III. Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership A. Program Admission Students must have completed a bachelor's degree with a cumulate grade point average of at least 2.5 and apply for admission to the Graduate School with the classification of "Graduate Certificate." To apply students must submit: Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study to Graduate Admissions; A letter describing their intent to pursue the certificate and its relevance to their career goals to the Graduate Coordinator for the Department of Engineering Technology; When seeking to waive a course prerequisite, two professional letters of recommendation describing pertinent work experience must be sent to the Graduate Coordinator for the Department of Engineering Technology. B. Program Requirements Completion of 12 semester hours distributed as follows: Required courses: Total 6 credits TECH 7105, Project Planning and Scheduling TECH 7401*, Advanced Lean Concepts and Practice *Course prerequisites will be waived for students who have demonstrated relevant work experience Electives: 6 credit hours chosen from the following: TECH 7402*, Adv Quality Control TECH 7404*, World-Class Manufacturing TECH 7406*, Materials Handling and Automation TECH 7408, Production Processes TECH 7414*, Manufacturing Strategy and System Design *Course prerequisites will be waived for students who have demonstrated relevant work experience Students may enroll in up to two electives from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Selection of the two business electives must be approved by the student's academic advisor and the Associate Dean of the Fogelman College. A maximum of 9 credit hours of the certificate program may be shared with a master's program. Graduation: Students must file and "Intent to Graduate" with the Graduate School at the beginning of the semester in which they will complete their 12-semester-hour requirement. A minimum grade of "B" in each course applicable to the certificate and a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 is required. Students must also submit a Candidacy Form to the Engineering Technology Graduate Coordinator in order to verify information and collect approvals and signatures required for the Graduate School. TECHNOLOGY (TECH) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. TECH 6234 - Microproc Interface Technology (4) Analysis and design of microprocessor based systems utilizing serial and parallel input/output as well as analog to digital and digital to analog converters. Programs are developed to verify operation of the interfacing hardware. Team projects and written reports. Three lectures, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831, 3233 and 3440. TECH 6242 - Client Application Technology (3) (CETH). Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), XML, and script languages. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4241, or permission of instructor. TECH 6262 - Modern Programming (3) (CETH). Application of Java and Java Script programming languages to problems from selected area of engineering technology; data collecting, modeling techniques, constraints, program development and validation. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2251 or equivalent. TECH 6263 - Server Application Technology (4) (CETH). Java exception handling, multithreading, files and streams; JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and JavaBeans server side software. Team projects include written reports. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 4262, or permission of instructor. TECH 6272 - Operating Systems (4) Operating system structure, memory management (physical, virtual memory), process management (processes, threads, scheduling, synchronization, deadlocks), device management (driver, buffers, queues), file management (implementation, abstraction), installation and configuration of services within UNIX/LINUX operating system, and performance. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3232 or equivalent. TECH 6281 - Computer Network Technology (4) (CETH). Local area networks; covering the bottom four layers of the OSI mode; physical, datalink, network and transportation and application. Extensive laboratory coverage of the installation, configuration and administration of routers, switches and other networking devices. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2822, 3232 and 3241 or equivalent. TECH 6381 - Principles of Supervision (3) (METH). Practical approach to supervisory management including functions of planning, organization, staffing, employee motivation; coverage of contemporary issues including legal aspect of supervision as well as other regulatory concerns, such as occupational safety, health and labor relations. TECH 6460 - Work Design/Improvement (3) (METH). Analytical techniques and concepts for work methods improvement, lean operation for production and distribution; performance measurement and evaluation; continuous improvement; fundamentals of human factors and ergonomics; work measurement using time study, predetermined time study systems, work sampling and development of standard data. TECH 6462 - Statistical Quality Control (3) (METH). Statistical methods for quality analysis and improvement; control charts for variables and attributes, industrial sampling; defect prevention using the Poka-Yoke System; reliability; acceptance sampling; Quality standards, continuous improvement; use of computer software for data analysis and presentation. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3044. [C] TECH 6464 - Production Control Systems (3) (METH). Functions of planning and controlling production and distribution operations; concepts of JIT, MRP, MRPII, ERP, and Japanese manufacturing techniques; analytical techniques and concepts for line balancing, production and process control, demand management and project management. COREQUISITE: TECH 4460, or permission of instructor. TECH 6466 - Facility Design (3) (METH). Integrated approach to design and layout for production and distribution facilities with respect to workstation design, material handling, project and resource planning, production control; use of Computer Aided Design, scheduling and analytical software. Team projects, written reports and oral presentations. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 4460 and 4464, or permission of instructor. TECH 6472 - Computer Aided Drafting (3) (meth). Overview of CAD technology, hardware and software options; parametric solid modeling principles; applications to produce computer generated models, assemblies, photo-realistic renderings and working drawings. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1521, 1711, 3401. TECH 6474 - Automation and Robotics (3) (METH). Concepts of automation applied to production, distribution, and industrial robotics. Team project including written report. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811, 3440 and PHYS 2010. TECH 6476 - Computer Aided Manufacturing (3) (METH). Computer numerical control programming by manual data input and distributed numerical control by computer assistance; system assessment of CNC machines; components, controls, and tooling for integrated manufacturing environment. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1730, TECH 1711, 3421, and 4472 . TECH 6571 - Tool Design (3) (METH). Design of tooling and work holding systems for the integrated manufacturing environment; geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, fast change-over techniques, hydraulic and pneumatic circuits, achieving world class quality through design. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3401, 3421, 4472. TECH 6821 - Microwave Technology (4) (EETH). Transition line principles for coax, waveguide and fiber; use of Smith Charts for impedance matching; principles of microwave generation and propagation; measurements such as impedance, antenna gain and VSWR; antenna types, characteristics; radiation patterns. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811, PHYS 2020. TECH 6823 - Adv Programmable Logic Control (3) (EETH). Advanced applications of programmable logic controllers, including analog I/O techniques and computer interfacing. Team project including written report. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 3822, or permission of instructor. TECH 7015 - App Stat Meth Industry (3) Application of statistical concepts to production processes and data gathering in industry including frequency, distribution, location and dispersion, probability dispersions, confidence limits, significance tests, and industrial sampling. TECH 7020 - Techn Research Writing (3) Investigations into the development and writing of technical research, emphasizing literature review in technology, review of technical specification format, proposal writing, and preparation of technical paper for international conferances. Written and oral presentations will be stressed in the course. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7105 - Project Plan & Scheduling (3) Contemporary methods used in project planning and scheduling; emphasis on critical path method (CPM) with computer application; solution of actual problems stressed. TECH 7233 - Adv Software Appl (3) Use of compilers, assemblers, program translators, application generators, program generators; application software for computer-aided design and data communications. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7263 - Adv Dgitl Circuit/Appl (3) Pragmatic treatment of analysis, synthesis, and applications of digital integrated circuits and systems. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7273 - Adv Microproc Arch (3) Structure of the microprocessor, Bit-slice and monolithic systems; ALU design, data transfer and storage registers, and control unit logic; microprogramming techniques. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7283 - Adv Data Acquisition (3) Use of digital and analog circuits to accomplish the computer analysis of empirical data; transducers, digital and analog conversions, linear and operational amplifiers, interfacing techniques; data scaling and manipulation. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7401 - Lean Fundamentals (3) Basic concepts and terminology of Lean, including review of published seminal works and case studies. Concepts covered include: kanban, visual factory & 5S, kaizen, standard work, takt time, flow, poke-yoke, PDCA, SMED and other tools & techniques of Lean. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6460 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. TECH 7402 - Adv Quality Control (3) Methods for improved process and product design; cost of quality, measurement systems analysis, process capability, design of experiments and analysis, continuous improvement and review of quality standards. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6462 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. TECH 7404 - Wrld/Clas Manfct Concpt (3) World-class manufacturing and Lean concepts including Value Stream Mapping, Training Within Industry (TWI), Standard Work, 5S tools, Ergonomics, Human factors and Cellular Manufacturing. COREQUISITE: TECH 7401 TECH 7406 - Material Handling/Auto (3) Analysis, design, and evaluation of traditional and contemporary approaches to materials handling; analytical and computer procedures for designing handling systems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7408 - Production Processes (3) A coordinated study of manufacturing processes and equipment, operation sequence planning, economic aspects of equipment selection, tooling and processing a product from product design to final assembly for quantity production. TECH 7414 - Manuf Strat/Syst Design (3) Manufacturing strategy and systems design, including concepts of value stream mapping, theory of constraints, lean and six sigma (TLS) combined use, implementing and sustaining change and overcoming resistance, executive alignment and strategy. COREREQUISITE: TECH 7401. TECH 7801 - Advanced Instrumentation (3) Review of basic analog and digital instruments, applications of advanced communication equipment, such as digital spectrum analyzer, TDR, computer aided measurement, and industrial instruments. Course concludes with virtual instrumentation. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7811 - Tech Elect Comm System (3) Technical and economic aspects in the implementation and operation of publicly and privately owned analog and digital communication systems, wired and wireless communications, and comparison of different methods of signal transmission. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7821 - Adv Microwave Tech (3) Microwave theory and instrument applications, including techniques for measuring power, frequency, impedance, VSWR, reflection coefficient, use of Smith chart, steady state and transient response of transmission lines, high frequency generators, and computer aided design and analysis of array antennas. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7822 - Ind Press Control Syst (3) Simulation and pragmatic analysis of closed loop industrial control systems using programmable logic controllers; practical considerations of control loop quality and stability; applications of digital computer for direct and supervisory control and on-line analysis. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7831 - Adv Int Circuits Tech (3) Theory and applications of integrated circuits and systems, emphasizing linear integrated circuits; characteristics, power requirements, and applications to amplifiers, oscillators, demodulators, wave shaping circuits, active filters, converters, and troubleshooting techniques. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7841 - Fiber Optics in Comm (3) Implementation and analysis of fiber optics; comparison of coax and fiber, bandwidth and rate of data transmission using fiber; emphasis on single and multimode fiber. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7991 - Projects I (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. TECH 7992 - Projects II (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. TECH 7993 - Internship In Engr Tech (1-3) Practical experience in engineering technology; students are placed with governmental or private organizations; project must be approved and supervised by department faculty; academic credit granted on certification of cooperating agency and acceptance by the supervising faculty of written report. NOTE: May be repeated for total of 6 semester hours credit, but no more than 3 credit hours may be applied as an elective. Number of credit hours to enroll depends on number of hours worked per week: 10-15 hours=1 credit hour; 16-30 hours=2 credit hours; 31-40 hours=3 credit hours. Work done as an intern can not be used to fulfill project requirements in TECH 7991 or TECH 7992. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal, offer letter from the internship organization, and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. TECH 7994 - Seminar (1) Presentations by faculty, members of local industry, and graduate students. May be repeated for up to 6 hours credit. Must be taken at least 3 times to count as an elective in the master's program. Not more than 3 credit hours may be applied as an elective. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. TECH 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Writing of the thesis with emphasis on adequate setup of the problem, collection of data, their use, and conclusions. Students must present in writing a proposal acceptable to the graduate committee under whose direction the thesis is to be written. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.