skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login How to apply Admissions requirements Application deadlines Admitted student checklist Apply Visit News Give Freshman Admissions Admissions at the University of Nevada, Reno How to apply Admissions requirements Application deadlines Admitted student checklist University Homepage / Admissions / Freshman admissions / How to apply as a new freshman Freshman admissions (Current Page) How to apply Admissions requirements Application deadlines Admitted student checklist How to apply as a new freshman Are you ready to apply to the University of Nevada, Reno? We are here to make the application process as seamless as possible. Review our admission requirements and application deadlines and read the information below to learn more about how to submit an application for admission. Steps to create and submit your application for admission Step one: Create your application account Applications for admission are submitted via the University's online application portal. After entering the required registration information, you will receive an automatic email with a temporary registration PIN. When you receive your PIN, you can complete the registration process that allows you to access your online application for admission. Create your application registration Step two: Complete your application for admission The application portal will guide you through your online application specific to your student type*. Once finished, verify your information and click the “Finalize application and pay” button (link) to proceed to payment page. Your application is not finalized until you submit your application fee. *Returning students must complete a returning student application for readmission to the University. Step three: Pay your application fee After finalizing your online application, you'll be prompted to pay a non-refundable $60 application fee, payable by credit card (Visa or Mastercard only). The application fee is only valid for the semester in which you apply and cannot be deferred or transferred to another semester. Application fee deferrals may be available. Step four: Check confirmation emails and register your MyNEVADA account Once payment is made a confirmation email will be sent immediately. Check your spam folder if not received and mark unr.edu as a safe sender to ensure future receipt of emails. An email containing MyNEVADA student portal activation information will be sent 24 to 48 hours after submitting the application and payment. The email sent 24 to 48 hours later will contain your student ID number and steps to create your MyNEVADA account. This account provides access to your student application dashboard, allows you to check your application status, accept or deny admission (if offered), review your fees, make payments and more. Step five: Submit your supporting documentation After completing your online application for admission, you can gather and submit the additional documentation required to finalize your application package. Transcripts. Official high school, college or International Baccalaureate transcripts may be sent electronically or mailed directly from the institution to the Office of Admissions and Records: University of Nevada, Reno Office of Admissions & Records MS 0120 Reno, NV 89557-0120 Standardized test scores (optional). Test scores must come directly from the testing agency. The University's test codes include the following: SAT/College Board (AP): 4844 ACT: 2494 Immunization records. All students attending the University of Nevada, Reno must submit proof of immunization. Copies of immunization records may be mailed, faxed, emailed or hand-delivered. Immunization requirements Mail. If you'd like to mail records, you can send them to the following address: University of Nevada, Reno Office of Admissions & Records MS 0120 Reno, NV 89557 Hand-deliver. You may also hand-deliver immunization records to the Office of Admissions and Records, located in the Fitzgerald Student Services building on the second floor. Fax. You may fax immunization records to (775) 784-4283. Email. You may email immunization records to mynevada@unr.edu. Start your application We're excited you're ready to join the Wolf Pack family. Start your application today. Start your application Continue a saved application Already started an application? Log into the online application portal to submit your application and get ready to become the next member of the Wolf Pack. Continue your application Check application status You can check the status of your application through MyNEVADA. You must activate your MyNEVADA account prior to accessing your application status. Check application status Already admitted? Learn about the next steps to take after acceptance to the University of Nevada, Reno. Use MyNEVADA to access your student application dashboard, accept or deny admission (if offered), review fees, make payments and more. Admitted students next steps Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX