Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ News Archives 2022 News and Events 2022 Baugh Scholars Baptist Students Vie to Be Part of Perkins' First Baugh Scholars Cohort May 10, 2022 Recent gift awarded to the school’s Baptist House of Studies will award up to 10 full scholarships to selected master’s, Doctor of Ministry or Doctor of Pastoral Music Degree students. DALLAS (SMU) – Applications from Baptist students are now being accepted for Fall 2022 for the Baugh Scholars Program, administered by the Perkins School of Theology Baptist House of Studies. Approximately 10 full scholarships – including tuition and fees – will be awarded to qualified applicants who meet the criteria. The Baugh Scholars Program is made possible through a $2.7 million, three-year grant from the Eula Mae and John Baugh Foundation, a Texas-based philanthropy committed to supporting the work of faith-based, nonprofit organizations. The grant was awarded to the Baptist House of Studies earlier this year. The contribution will fund full-time Baugh Scholars enrolled in Perkins master’s, Doctor of Ministry and Doctor of Pastoral Music degree programs. Read more about the Baugh grant. Applicants who have demonstrated a vocational commitment and potential to enhance Baptist life through pastoral leadership or teaching will be considered for Baugh Scholarships. As enrolled students in the degree programs offered at Perkins School of Theology at SMU, they are also expected to engage with and contribute to Baptist life at Perkins. Read more about criteria and expectations here. To apply to Perkins School of Theology, click here. Please note these Baugh Scholars-specific requirements beyond the application for admission: 3.0 GPA or better as undergraduates Submit an additional essay on their past, present and future anticipated service within the Baptist church or academy as pastor, chaplain or teacher Submit an additional reference/form by pastor to validate church involvement For more information about the Baugh Scholars Program, contact Dr. Jaime Clark-Soles, Director, Baptist House of Studies: jaimecs@mail.smu.edu. For additional information or questions about the application process, contact Dr. Stephen Bagby, Director of Admission Operations, at 214-768-2139 or sbagby@smu.edu. ### Perkins School of Theology, founded in 1911, is one of five official University-related schools of theology of The United Methodist Church. Degree programs include the Master of Divinity, Master of Sacred Music, Master of Theological Studies, Master of Arts in Ministry, Master of Theology, Doctor of Ministry, and Doctor of Pastoral Music, as well as the Ph.D., in cooperation with The Graduate Program in Religious Studies at SMU’s Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences. An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share