Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid Types of Aid Summer / May Terms Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Students who received SMU merit-based and/or need-based financial aid during the previous regular academic year (fall/spring terms) may receive a pro-rated award amount from each of these financial aid programs based solely on the number of hours enrolled. The combined total of all merit and need based awards cannot exceed tuition and fees. There is no minimum hour requirement for SMU merit-based or need-based aid programs. The SMU Summer Loan and all federal aid programs require a combined total of six (6) or more enrolled hours. Per regulation, funds may be disbursed no sooner than ten (10) days prior to the first day of class. All funds will be applied through the student account. For detailed information regarding May and Summer term programs, go to www.smu.edu/summer. Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer / May Terms Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share