Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Determining Your Award Disbursement of Aid Maintaining Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Special Circumstances Withdrawal Policy Fraud Policy Verification TASFA/Senate Bill 1528 SFA Upload Documents Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us How to Apply for Financial Aid Contact Us | Payment Information | Academic Calendar | Find Your Financial Aid Advisor At the University of Houston, we realize the important role financial aid plays in funding your education. In order to have access to this valuable resource in a timely fashion, it is important for you to complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible after Oct. 1 (prior to the academic year) to ensure you receive your awards in time to pay tuition and fees. You must complete and submit the FAFSA, along with any requested documentation, by the priority deadline of Jan. 15 (prior to the academic year) to receive the maximum consideration for limited financial aid resources. The University of Houston’s Federal School Code is 003652. Virtual Advising is now available Since we know the financial aid process can be confusing, staff in the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid are here to help. Financial Aid Advisors are available via email, by phone (713-743-1010, option #5), and by virtual advising appointments (schedule via the Navigate app) to help you with questions about your financial aid process. If you do not have a Cougarnet account, you can call us to make an appointment. If you do not find the answers to all of your questions on this page, please visit the Scholarships and Financial Aid FAQs page. How to Avoid Delays APPLY EARLY - The FAFSA is released Oct. 1, prior to the start of each academic year. UTILIZE IRS DATA RETRIEVAL (DRT) – The IRS Data Retrieval Tool (IRS DRT) electronically imports your federal tax return information into your FAFSA application. Using the IRS DRT will ensure we have the most complete and accurate tax information. Make sure to have you and/or your parent’s tax return for the “prior-prior” year with you when you are filling out the FAFSA. For example, on the 2022-2023 FAFSA, you (and your parents, as appropriate) must report your 2020 income information, rather than your 2021 income information. If you are completing the 2021-2022 FAFSA, you will need to have your 2019 tax return information handy. PROVIDE CONSISTENT INFORMATION - A computer process scans your FAFSA and income information to ensure all information in all fields matches. Please take great consideration in providing consistent information to avoid being flagged for verification. PROMPTLY SUBMIT ANY REQUESTED DOCUMENTS - The University of Houston’s Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will inform you via email if any additional documentation is required to complete your file. Make sure you are submitting the required documentation by Jan. 15 or you may miss out on priority funding. Before You Apply To be eligible for Federal Financial Aid you need to: Have a high school diploma or a General Education Development (GED) Certificate, or have completed homeschooling. Be a citizen, or an eligible non-citizen of the United States. Be enrolled in a degree-seeking program.* Have a valid Social Security Number. Be registered with the Selective Service System, if required. Maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress. Not owe a refund on a federal student grant or be in default on a federal student loan. Not have a conviction for the possession or sale of illegal drugs for an offense that occurred while you were receiving federal student aid (such as grants, work-study, or loans). *Certificate programs at the University of Houston are not eligible for federal or state financial aid unless you are simultaneously seeking a degree; students must be enrolled in degree-seeking programs to qualify for financial aid. Once you have determined that you are eligible, you are ready to begin the six steps to financial aid. Steps for Federal Applicants STEP 1 - Apply for Your FSA ID The FSA ID consists of a user-created username and password. It allows users to electronically access personal information on Federal Student Aid Web sites as well as electronically sign a FAFSA. Parents of dependent students must obtain a FSA ID as well, so that they too can sign the FAFSA online. Visit studentaid.gov/fsa-id to create your FSA ID. STEP 2 - Complete Your FAFSA To apply for financial aid, you MUST complete a FAFSA by visiting studentaid.gov. You should complete the application as early as possible after Oct. 1. You must complete and submit the FAFSA, along with any requested documentation, by the priority deadline of Jan. 15 to receive the maximum consideration for limited financial aid resources. The University of Houston’s Federal School Code is 003652. Click here to view the 2022-2023 edition of Completing the FAFSA via Mobile App video. STEP 3 - Review Your Student Aid Report (SAR) You will be notified by the Department of Education via email within 3-5 days that your Student Aid Report (SAR) is ready for review and has been forwarded to the school of your choice. If your SAR has errors, correct them online using your FSA ID. STEP 4 - Complete Your File if Additional Documentation is Required While processing your FAFSA, additional application requirements may be requested to complete your file in a process called verification. You will be notified via email if your file is incomplete, but it is also recommended that you monitor your status online at myUH self-service account. STEP 5 - Check Your Status In order to be eligible for federal funding, you MUST be a fully admitted degree-seeking student. Check your status online at myUH self-service account. STEP 6 - Accept Your Aid Offers We will notify you via email when you have been offered financial aid. Accept or decline your financial aid award(s) at myUH self-service account. University of Houston strives to make the Financial Aid process as straightforward as possible, but some students have unique situations that they need help with. Browse this list of links to learn more about the financial aid application process. Special Circumstances Determining Your Financial Need Disbursement of Aid Maintaining Financial Aid Eligibility Other Scholarship Sources Net Price Calculator Payment Plans Financial Aid FAQs After the FAFSA Video University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies