Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PHARMACY MEDICINAL CHEMISTRY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MEDCH 327 The Science of Drugs (3) NW Libin Xu Introduces students to medicinal chemistry and pharmaceutical sciences. Recommended for sophomore, junior and senior students majoring in chemistry, biochemistry, bioengineering, chemical engineering, public health and other health sciences, and related fields. Prerequisite: either CHEM 223, CHEM 237, or CHEM 335; recommended: basic knowledge in general chemistry and organic chemistry. Offered: jointly with PCEUT 327; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 327 MEDCH 495 Special Studies in Medicinal Chemistry (*, max. 6) Opportunity to expand the breadth and depth of understanding in specific areas. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 495 MEDCH 499 Independent Study/Research (*, max. 24) Research problems in medicinal chemistry. Prerequisite: cumulative GPA of 2.50 and permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 499 MEDCH 500 Fundamental Medicinal Chemistry (2) Provides pharmacy students a working knowledge of different aspects of chemical and physical properties of drugs, such as chemical bonds, functional groups, acid and base properties, stereochemistry, ADME properties, and organic transformations in drug actions and metabolism. Recommended: completion of undergraduate organic chemistry series. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 500 MEDCH 501 Medicinal Biochemistry (3) Abhinav Nath Provides a working knowledge of biochemistry directly related to understanding disease and drug therapy in pharmacy practice. Areas of study include drug metabolism, principles of enzyme kinetics and receptor theory, signal transduction, lipids and membrane transport, structure and function of antibodies, and regulation of protein expression and modification. Recommended: completion of undergraduate biochemistry series. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 501 MEDCH 520 Seminar (1, max. 30) Qingcheng Mao Graduate students attend seminars and make one formal presentation per year while in residence; maximum of three presentations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with PCEUT 520. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 520 MEDCH 521 Advanced Medicinal Chemistry (3) Application of integrated data from the physical and biological sciences to problems of chemotherapy, including transport of drugs to site of action, biotransformation of drugs, interaction of drugs with enzyme systems, and recent advances in drug design. Prerequisite: CHEM 457, CHEM 531, and BIOC 442, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Atkins, Nelson Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 521 MEDCH 527 Advanced Drug Metabolism (2) Allan Edward Rettie, Rheem A. Totah Considerations of the enzymology and mechanisms of biotransformation and disposition of drugs and foreign compounds. Includes chemical and biochemical reaction mechanisms, enzyme induction mechanisms, kinetics of inhibition and activation, inter-individual differences in metabolism and bioactivation and toxicity. Prerequisite: MEDCH 529, PCEUT 502, or permission of instructor; recommended: knowledge of chemical and biochemical mechanisms; knowledge of enzyme kinetics; and knowledge of chemical and cellular toxicity. Offered: jointly with PHCOL 527; W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 527 MEDCH 528 Biophysical Enzymology and Biopharmaceuticals (2) Atkins, Catalano Covers in-depth treatment of chemical catalysis and transition state theory as related to enzyme mechanisms; thermodynamics and kinetics of protein-ligand interactions, protein-protein-interactions and protein-lipid interactions, and methods for their study. Discusses therapeutically relevant examples, including viruses, therapeutic antibodies, and drug targets. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 528 MEDCH 529 Advanced Medicinal Chemistry (4) Covers the fundamental aspects of contemporary medicinal chemistry. Discusses the chemical characteristics of drugs and drug targets, pharmaceutical properties of drugs, drug metabolism, toxicology, and pharmacogenetics. Focuses on various drug classes; their biochemistry, pharmacology, mechanism of action, and toxicology. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 529 MEDCH 530 Integrated Pharmacology (1) Atkins, Beavo, Rettie Students present and discuss primary literature that integrates aspects of medicinal chemistry and pharmacokinetics with the physiology, pharmacology, and genetics of therapeutic drug targets. Examples of targets discussed include ion channels and enzymes relevant to cardiovascular disease, and neurodegenerative disease. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 530 MEDCH 531 Laboratory Methods in Protein Therapeutics (3) Hands-on experience with laboratory methods and data analysis used to characterize biophysical properties of therapeutic antibodies. Students measure functional protein interactions and stability of constructs currently used for anti-body-based therapeutics. Background lectures from industry and government scientists highlight the role of these analyses in development of protein-based therapeutics. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 531 MEDCH 532 Chemical and Molecular Pharmacology I: Autonomic and Cardiovascular Drugs (5) Chemical and molecular properties of drugs, their mechanism of action, and adverse effects. Drugs that act on the autonomic nervous system, used to treat endocrine disorders and pathologic conditions that disrupt pulmonary or cardiovascular function, including diabetes and dyslipidemia. Prerequisite: MEDCH 500 and MEDCH 501. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 532 MEDCH 533 Chemical and Molecular Pharmacology II: Blood, CNS, Endocrine and GI Drugs (4) Chemical and molecular properties of drugs, their mechanism of action and adverse effects. Focuses on drugs that act on the blood, in the brain, and are used to treat hematological disorders, inflammation, pathologic conditions that disrupt central nervous system function, and gastrointestinal disorders. Prerequisite: MEDCH 500 and MEDCH 501. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 533 MEDCH 535 Diagnostic Medicinal Chemistry (3) Catalano, Kunze Examination of clinical diagnostic tests with regard to the chemical or biochemical rationale of the testing method, interpretation of test results, and major factors influencing test values with special emphasis on the effects of medications. Clinical laboratory data from patients considered in light of these factors. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 535 MEDCH 541 Biological Mass Spectrometry (3) Covers the basics of modern ionization methods and mass analyzers; small molecule structure assignment, quantitative assay development by LC-MS and metabolomics; quantitative discovery-based proteomics and validation methods; and peptide sequence determination, post-translational modification mapping, and protein structure determination methods. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Whittington Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 541 MEDCH 551 Flavin and Heme-Containing Monooxygenases (1) Discussion of research strategies and methodologies concerning the structure, function, and polymorphic expression of human monooxygenases, especially the cytochrome P450s and flavin-containing monooxygenases. Emphasis placed on experimental problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Rettie Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 551 MEDCH 552 Computational Peptide Design (1) Gaurav Bhardwaj Discussion of computational and experimental strategies for the de novo design of peptide-based diagnostics and therapeutics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 552 MEDCH 553 Structure and Function of Macromolecular Protein Assemblies (1) Discussion of research strategies, methods, and current literature concerning macromolecular self-assembly processes and protein-protein interactions as they relate to biological specificity. Emphasis on experimental approaches used in current literature. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Atkins Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 553 MEDCH 554 Biophysical and Structural Virology (1) Lee Discusses current topics in virus research and literature. Weekly sessions led by all participating members of the research group. Prerequisite: permission of instructor Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 554 MEDCH 555 Biophysics and Pharmacology of Dynamic Proteins (1) Discusses current topics in protein dynamics, focusing on intrinsically disordered proteins and drug-metabolizing enzymes. Weekly sessions led by all participating members of the research group. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Nath Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 555 MEDCH 556 Clinical and Mechanistic Aspects of Drug Metabolism (1) Discussion of research methodologies and new approaches to elucidatate chemical mechanisms and enzymology of reactions catalyzed by cytochrome P-450. Emphasis on clinical applications and predicting in vivo drug behavior and toxicity. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Totah Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 556 MEDCH 557 Antibody-Antigen Interactions (1, max. 10) M. Guttman Discussion of research strategies, methods, and current literature in characterizing the structures of antibody-antigen interactions with an emphasis on carbohydrate interactions. Weekly sessions are led by all participating members of the research group. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 557 MEDCH 558 Human Cytochrome P-450 Biochemistry (1) Presentation and discussion of research strategies and methodologies related to current problems in human drug metabolism by cytochrome P-450 enzymes. Emphasis on hypothesis testing and experimental problem solving in the areas of enzyme kinetics and mechanism. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kunze Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 558 MEDCH 559 Biosynthesis, Metabolism, and Analysis of Lipids (1) L. XU Covers recent advanced on oxidative metabolism of lipids, lipid biosynthesis, and application of advanced mass spectrometry to the analysis of lipids and oxidized lipids. Weekly sessions led by all participating members of the research group. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 559 MEDCH 561 Immunizing and Antimicrobial Agents (3) Rheem A. Totah, Kelly K. Lee A course for pharmacy students focused on introducing the major classes of antimicrobial drugs for treatment of bacterial, viral, and fungal infections. For antimicrobial agents, the focus is on mechanisms of action and drug targets rather than for therapeutic applications. The course will also discuss the issue of antibiotic resistance. In the second half of the course the primary focus will be on vaccines for infectious disease. Prerequisite: MEDCH 501 or equivalent, PharmD major, or permission of instructor; recommended: completion of undergraduate Biochemistry series. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 561 MEDCH 562 Medicinal Chemistry (3) W. ATKINS, K. KUNZE, D. PORUBEK, A. RETTIE Study of the various classes of medicinal compounds with particular emphasis on biological activity, mechanism of action, biotransformation, and the structural and physical properties governing absorption, distribution, and excretion. Prerequisite: MEDCH 400 or satisfactory completion of qualifying exam. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 562 MEDCH 563 Medicinal Chemistry (3) Study of the various classes of medicinal compounds with particular emphasis on biological activity, mechanism of action, biotransformation, and the structural and physical properties governing absorption, distribution, and excretion. Prerequisite: MEDCH 400 or satisfactory completion of qualifying exam. Instructors: Nelson, Rettie Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 563 MEDCH 564 Medicinal Chemistry (3) Study of the various classes of medicinal compounds with particular emphasis on biological activity, mechanism of action, biotransformation, and the structural and physical properties governing absorption, distribution, and excretion. Prerequisite: MEDCH 400 or satisfactory completion of qualifying exam. Instructors: Atkins, Nelson Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 564 MEDCH 580 Current Trends in Pharmacy Science and Practice (1, max. 2) Current topics in active research relevant to professional pharmacy practice. Topics include drug metabolism, molecular mechanisms of diseases progression, large molecule drug development and analysis, or related to research within the Department of Medicinal Chemistry. Prerequisite: School of Pharmacy professional or graduate student standing. Undergraduate students with permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 580 MEDCH 582 Topics in Medicinal Chemistry (1, max. 30) Discussion of pertinent articles from current literature. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 582 MEDCH 599 Cumulative Exams for Medicinal Chemistry (1) Quarterly cumulative examinations for graduate students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 599 MEDCH 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 600 MEDCH 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 700 MEDCH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDCH 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022