Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation News Funding Opportunities Research Public Health Research Day 2022 Over 70 student posters were presented and discussed at the School's annual research showcase. Highlights and poster winners Professor Caroline Kuo featured by NIH The National Institute of Mental Health highlights the research of women transforming the understanding and treatment of mental illnesses. Read more IMPACT Collaboratory tracks COVID-19 vaccine effects A $1.4 million federal grant will enable the research team to double the scope of the largest monitoring system of safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccinations for elderly people. Read more Specialist librarians Meet the library specialists who are available to help with your research needs. Find out more Find a Researcher Search Brown's comprehensive faculty directory by research area. Search Now With $64 million in annual external funding, the Brown University School of Public Health ranks among the top 5 schools of public health for NIH funding. Our nationally-renowned research centers and institutes focus training and research on key areas including HIV/AIDS, addiction, global health, aging, and environmental health. Subscribe to our research newsletter Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 25, 2022 Read More New review highlights the complex nature of cannabis and alcohol co-use April 21, 2022 Read More Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters April 7, 2022 Read More More Research News Centers & Institutes Brown University AIDS Program The Brown University AIDS Program (BRUNAP) is regionally and nationally recognized as a program of excellence for training and education of clinicians in HIV treatment and prevention. visit website Center for Alcohol & Addiction Studies The mission of CAAS is twofold: To conduct collaborative research that will lead to more effective treatment for alcohol and drug use, and to create a nationwide program in substance abuse, education and training for psychologists, physicians, medical students, and health care professionals. visit website Alcohol Research Center on HIV The Alcohol Research Center on HIV (ARCH) is a multidisciplinary center grant focused on reducing the impact of alcohol on the breadth and depth of the HIV epidemic. Funded by NIAAA in September of 2010, the ARCH comprises 3 major research components in addition to an Administrative Core, Virology Core, and Biostatistics Core. Visit website Center for Addiction & Disease Risk Exacerbation The Center for Addiction & Disease Risk Exacerbation (CADRE) is a NIH Center of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE) led by Peter Monti, Jennifer Tidey, & Jasjit Ahluwalia. CADRE is housed in the Center for Alcohol & Addiction Studies at the Brown University School of Public Health. Visit Website Center for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine The Center for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine (CBPM) is a leading research center in the Lifespan Medical System. Research scientists and their teams work to discover new and improved health promotion and disease management approach, focusing on the role of human behavior in health and disease. We seek to integrate the social, behavioral, and biomedical sciences through clinical, community, and laboratory-based research. visit website Center for Children’s Environmental Health The Center for Children’s Environmental Health is dedicated to promoting the health of children by understanding the determinants, health effects, and biological action of environmental pollutant exposures from before conception until adolescence. Our Center is engaged in studies examining pesticides, drinking water contaminants, metals, and chemicals used in consumer products. visit website Center for Epidemiologic Research The goal of the Center for Epidemiologic Research is to conduct epidemiologic studies of the causes, treatment and prevention of major health concerns at the population level. visit website Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health At the Center for Evidence Synthesis, (formerly known as the "Center for Evidence-based Medicine") we strive to improve health and wellbeing of individuals and populations. We promote rational decision making by conducting research in, and teaching the principles of, research synthesis (systematic review and meta-analysis of individual participant and aggregate data) and evidence contextualization (decision and economic modeling). visit website Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research The Center's primary mission is to advance the fields of gerontology and health services research through methodological and substantive research, informed by basic theories of aging, human development, and the illness experience. The goal of these efforts is to enhance the quality of life of persons with chronic illness, especially older adults. The research focus, both basic and applied, draws upon the social sciences as well as the clinical disciplines. visit website Center for Long-Term Care Quality & Innovation Brown’s Center for Long-Term Care Quality & Innovation (Q&I Center) links researchers with providers to test and disseminate interventions to improve care for older adults, particularly those receiving post-acute and long-term care. visit website Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Founded in 2016 with a generous donation from the family of Alan Hassenfeld, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute (HCHII) aims to make a transformative impact on the lives of children and their families in Rhode Island, as well as around the world. visit website Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity The Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity (CHPHE, formerly the Center for Health Equity Research) conducts interdisciplinary, empirical research to promote healthier behaviors and environments. Our overarching topical strengths are in the areas of HIV primary and secondary prevention, global public health, LGBT health, substance addiction treatment, obesity, smoking, exercise and nutrition, and behavioral medicine. visit website International Health Institute The IHI is one of several academic units involved in strengthening global health research, training and service activities at Brown University. The IHI's mission is to apply interdisciplinary perspectives to research and training to improve the health of populations in developing countries. visit website Mindfulness Center We are at a time in history when mindfulness research is rapidly expanding, and mindfulness has become a $1 billion industry in the United States alone. There is great need for methodologically rigorous research to help determine whether reported impacts of mindfulness on health are fad or fact, as well as the provision of evidence-based services to match the greatly increasing demand by community members, including schools, hospitals and businesses. The Mindfulness Center at Brown University leads initiatives in these areas. visit website Center for Primary Care and Prevention The Brown University Center for Primary Care and Prevention at Memorial Hospital of RI is dedicated to promoting research, knowledge enrichment, and improving practice in primary care and prevention. CPCP research aims to help providers in prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of various illnesses, among a variety of other topics. visit website Center for Statistical Sciences Our mission is to foster research and statistical education at the Division of Biology and Medicine and the University at large. Center faculty and staff conduct methodologic research in Biostatistics and interdisciplinary research in a broad range of areas of Medicine, Public Health, and Biology. The Center is part of the Public Health Program at Brown and is co-located with the newly founded Department of Biostatistics. visit website Affiliated Centers & Institutes Advance CTR serves as a central hub to support and educate clinical and translational researchers at the state level by developing the infrastructure and resources investigators need to conduct clinical and translational research in Rhode Island. Advance-CTR connects researchers and supports institutions in Rhode Island in order to advance clinical and translational research that improves public health in the state. Center for Health + Justice Transformation acts as a hub for the innovative correctional health research and programming occurring at The Miriam Hospital and other research hospitals in RI and around the country. The Center’s mission is to improve the health and human rights of justice-involved populations through education, advocacy, and research. The Data Science Initiative at Brown University is a hub for research and education in the foundational methodologies, domain applications, and societal impacts of data science. DSI engages partners across campus and beyond to facilitate and conduct both domain-driven and fundamental research in data science, to increase data fluency and educate the next generation of data scientists, and to explore the impact of the data revolution on culture, society, and social justice. Brown's Global Health Initiative is distinguished by an integrative, overarching approach to the fundamentally interrelated problems of health and development. The Initiative encompasses a wide range of practitioners and researchers across medicine, public health, biomedical research, social science, and engineering to provide sustainable solutions in partnership with communities and institutions in Africa, India, Southeast Asia, the Caribbean, and the Pacific. The Initiative offers high impact education, research, and service opportunities for students and faculty, and addresses issues of capacity, infrastructure, environment, and health care delivery to reduce the burden of disease in impoverished communities. The Institute at Brown for Environment and Society aims to promote and protect both sustainable human societies and the natural world that supports them. IBES supports interdisciplinary research to understand the interactions between natural, human, and social systems. Its teaching programs engage students with the deep complexity of human-environment interactions and prepare future leaders to envision and build a just and sustainable world. LeaRRn: Learning Health Systems Rehabilitation Research Network advances the study of implementing and sustaining evidence-based and innovative practices across the continuum of rehabilitation care. LeaRRn connects rehabilitation researchers and learning health systems through their LHS Innovation Hub. The People, Place & Health Collective is a research laboratory in the Department of Epidemiology at the Brown University School of Public Health. This diverse team of staff, students, postdocs, and faculty are tackling pressing challenges in America today, from the nation’s overdose crisis, to the COVID-19 pandemic, to the synergistic effects of overlapping infectious disease and substance use epidemics. The Philippine Health Initiative for Research, Service & Training is an effort by students and faculty in the Brown School of Public Health to improve the health of people in the Philippines and Filipino Americans. While the PHIRST is primarily focused on the development of knowledge through scholarship, it is committed to developing this knowledge alongside community partners and to contributing to research and advocacy infrastructure. PHIRST is a collective effort focused on building a critical mass of scholar-advocates with a collaborative, team-based approach to improving Filipino and Filipino American health. Brown's Population and Studies and Training Center builds and supports collaborative teams that span disciplines and geographies and integrate research with training. The PSTC brings together economists, sociologists, anthropologists, and epidemiologists to research topics such as climate change, abortion, health disparities, and innovative research methodologies. The Center's scholars contribute to the resolution of human population issues in the 21st century through interdisciplinary collaborations with a global perspective. The PSTC is committed to a population science that recognizes that people and places are connected, and that health and well-being are intertwined with our social, economic, and political systems. The Rhode Island Public Health Institute’s mission is to promote community health and to eliminate health disparities in Rhode Island and beyond. We partner with Brown University and the Rhode Island Department of Health to develop innovative public health programs, conduct translational and policy research, and train students and public health practitioners. The Rhode Island Community-Academic Partnership for Behavioral Health (RICAP) is a partnership between the Substance Use and Mental Health Leadership Council of Rhode Island, and the Brown University School of Public Health. Its long-term goal is to create a self-sustaining academic-community partnership for stakeholder engaged comparative effectiveness research and dissemination of best practices in behavioral health. The Survey Research Center is dedicated to conducting high-quality survey research in partnerships with universities, hospitals, government agencies, and non-profit organizations. Investigators can benefit from their trained staff, available facilities, and high-quality, cost-effective services. From proposal to analysis, they are available to advise and assist investigators during every step of the survey process. The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs partners with the School of Public Health to offer a dual MPH/MPA degree for highly-qualified applicants to gain training in public health and public policy to prepare them to address the critical health policy issues in the United States and throughout the world. 643 Peer Reviewed Publications $96 Million Research Grants 213 New Grants Awarded 2018 Funding Opportunities Faculty Research at Brown Research Clusters School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top