AGAP S Adrienne & Beth's Wild And Crazy Adventures on the Bottom of the Earth! Adventure Home Meet Adrienne & Beth Follow the Overland Traverse Subglacial Lakes The East Antarctic Ice Sheet Mysterious Mountains AGAP Project Home 'Travel to the Bottom of the Earth' ADRIENNE BETH Hi from us, Adrienne and Beth! We are looking forward to having you along on our adventures as we travel to the center of East Antarctica at the Bottom of the Earth. As scientists who study the Earth we go into the field to collect data and observations. How do you like our pictures? We are dressed in our researcher gear, the official parkas for Antarctic's 'extreme environment' provided by the National Science Foundation to keep workers safe (that bright coloring isn't because someone likes red!) and warm (yep our arms are stuffed like a Pillsbury doughboy!. Run your mouse over our pictures to see how scientists make these long winter trips fun! After all, we need a sense of humor to travel over 9,000 miles (15,000 km) to visit Antarctica, the coldest place on the planet, in November. That's right November, just when things are getting really cold outside! Wait, did we say things are getting really cold in November? Well that actually depends on where you are. You will learn more about that in "Whether/Weather". This is the cool patch that was designed for our project, AGAP, which stands for Antarctic Gamburtsev Province. On this trip we are teaming up with 6 other countries to travel to East Antarctica and locate and map a hidden mountain range called the Gamburtsev Mountains. The Mountains are expected to be about the same size as the European Alps, which are about 15,750 feet (or 4,800 meters) tall. But no one has ever seen the Gamburtsevs since they have been hidden for over 14 million years! I know it sounds crazy but don't worry you will learn more about this in "Mysterious Mountains". So come join us on this wild and crazy adventure...but first check out how the two of us got excited about science in "Meet Adrienne and Beth". This project funded through NSF Antarctic Research Grants #ANT 0632292; ANT 0619457| contact us | web master Untitled Document