Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Cornell Research Homepage Toggle Cornell Research Menu News & Features Recently Funded Research Innovation in Action Life in the Lab Video Features Laboratory of Atomic and Solid State Physics Main Menu Toggle Search Form Research Services Center for Technology Licensing Home About Us News Administration Community Alumni Work With Us People Research Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Biological Physics Experimental Condensed-Matter Physics Theoretical Condensed-Matter Physics Physics Education Research Kavli Institute at Cornell Services LASSP Professional Machine Shop LASSP Student Machine Shop Low Temperature Cryogenic Liquids Distribution Facility Stockroom and Purchasing Support Events Past Events Welcome to LASSP Welcome to the Lab of Atomic and Solid State Physics! Since 1954, our faculty have been leading the way in the fields of condensed matter, biological physics, and optics. Together with a dynamic group of graduate students and researchers, we are evolving new methods and deepening our fundamental understanding of the world. LASSP's faculty are leaders in the fields of atomic, molecular, and optical physics, biological physics, physics education research, and condensed matter physics. Areas of Research LASSP Professional Machine Shop In the News Full listing Artificial cilia could someday power diagnostic devices May 25, 2022 Researchers have now designed a micro-sized artificial cilial system using platinum-based components that can control the movement of fluids at such a scale. The technology could someday enable low-cost, portable diagnostic devices for testing blood samples, manipulating cells or assisting in microfabrication processes. Student Spotlight: Vaibhav Sharma May 23, 2022 Vaibhav Sharma is a doctoral candidate in physics from Delhi, India. He attended Delhi Technological University for his bachelor’s degree and the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay for his master’s degree and now studies the quantum mechanical behavior of ultracold atoms. Dragonflies use vision, subtle wing control to straighten up and fly right May 13, 2022 Cornell researchers have untangled the intricate physics and neural controls that enable dragonflies to right themselves while they’re falling. See more news LASSP is one of the more than 30 multidisciplinary research centers + support offices supported by the Research Division. 515 Clark Hall, 142 Sciences Drive Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2501 Follow us on: Listserv Opportunities The Department of Physics is the academic home for all faculty and students affiliated with LASSP. Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance