Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Events Calendar > Events Calendar > Harvard Chan School Convocation: Class of 2022 This event has passed. Harvard Chan School Convocation: Class of 2022 May 25 @ 11:00 am - 1:00 pm The in-person program will feature remarks from Dean Michelle Williams; keynote speaker Mamphela Ramphele , student speaker Sumantra Monty Ghosh, and Trishan Panch, president of the Harvard Chan School Alumni Association. Graduates from the Class of 2022 will be presented individually. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Ceremony 11 am-1 pm Location: Reggie Lewis Center, Roxbury Crossing, MA 02120 After the ceremony students, guests, faculty, and staff are invited to a reception in the gymnasium. Learn more about Harvard Chan School graduation events Ceremony order Processional Acknowledgement of Native Land and Peoples Elizabeth Solomon Director of Administration Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Member of the Massachusett Tribe at Ponkapoag Welcome Michelle A. Williams Dean of the Faculty Student Speech Sumantra Monty Ghosh  Master of Public Health  Convocation Address Mamphela Ramphele  Activist, medical doctor, academic, businesswoman and political thought leader  Alumni Greetings Trishan Panch  President, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Alumni Association  Announcement of Awards Jane Kim  Dean for Academic Affairs  Announcement of Degree Candidates Maritza Hernandez Associate Dean for Student Services Biological Sciences in Public Health  Flaminia Catteruccia  Biostatistics  John Quackenbush  Environmental Health  Douglas Dockery  Epidemiology  Albert Hofman  Global Health and Population  Marcia Castro  Health Policy and Management  Arnold Epstein  Immunology and Infectious Diseases  Sarah Fortune  Molecular Metabolism  Brendan Manning Nutrition  Frank Hu  Population Health Sciences  Eric Rimm  Social and Behavioral Sciences  David Williams  Doctor of Public Health Richard Siegrist  Presentation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Michelle A. Williams Dean of the Faculty Closing Remarks Michelle A. Williams Dean of the Faculty Recessional + Add to Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 25 Time: 11:00 am - 1:00 pm Calendar(s): Academic Calendar, Public Events, School-wide Events, University-wide Events Website: http://hsph.harvard.edu/graduation Related Events June Session Courses Begin June 6 Exec. Ed Online: Leading in Health Systems Activating Transformational Change June 6 @ 8:45 am - 12:00 pm Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Featured Events Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health July 24 - July 30 More events Other calendars Office of Faculty Affairs Department of Biostatistics Department of Environmental Health Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Department of Molecular Metabolism Submit an event Have an event you would like to appear on this calendar? How to submit an event We want to hear from you The Department of Information Technology and the Office of Communications look forward to hearing your feedback on how we can improve the calendar experience for both visitors to our site and administrators who plan events. Provide feedback About the Events Calendar (beta) project Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College