Erickson, Ansley T. (ate11) Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC WWW View All Faculty Profiles Home Vitae Related Articles Documents Ansley Erickson Associate Professor of History and Education Policy 212-678-6623 Office Location: 511 Thmps Office Hours: Current students by appointment Make an Appointment TC Affiliations: Arts & Humanities History and Education Education Policy and Social Analysis Education Policy Politics and Education Faculty Expertise: Curriculum Politics and Education Race and Ethnicity Urban Schools Home Vitae Related Articles Documents Educational Background PhD, Columbia University BA, Brown University Affiliated faculty member, Columbia University Department of History Affiliated faculty member, Institute for Urban and Minority Education Ansley T. Erickson is a historian who focuses on educational inequality and urban and metropolitan history. Her first book, Making the Unequal Metropolis: School Desegregation and Its Limits (University of Chicago Press, 2016) tells the story of persistent inequality in Nashville, Tennesee's metropolitan school district during periods of segregation and desegregation. Her writing has appeared in the American Journal of Education, History of Education Quarterly, Journal of Urban History, and Teachers College Record, as well as in Dissent and Chalkbeat. In fall 2017, she was a Scholar in Residence at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture of the New York Public Library. With Professor Ernest Morrell of Notre Dame, Erickson leads the Harlem Education History Project, a collaborative investigation into the history of education in 20th century Harlem. The project published Educating Harlem: A Century of Schooling and Resistance in a Black Community with Columbia University Press and in an online open-access digital edition in 2019. The project also includes a digital history project, and an ongoing youth participatory history program working in local classrooms. Erickson was a National Academy of Education/Spencer Postdoctoral Fellow in 2011-2013, and has held research fellowships from the Spencer Foundation and the Eisenhower Institute among others. She currently serves as an Associate Editor of the American Educational Research Journal and on the editorial board of theTheory and Research in Education. She has served on the editorial board of the History of Education Quarterly, was chair of the History of Education Society Outstanding Book Prize committee in 2015-16, and secretary of the American Educational Research Association's Division F - History and Historiography from 2018-20. Earlier in her career, Erickson taught history and conducted ethnographic research in New York City schools and worked at two national education organizations. She also has experience in historical documentary film and public history consulting. Prizes: Outstanding Book Award, History of Education Society, 2017; History of Education Society Prize, 2016 (with co-author Andrew Highsmith); Columbia University Bancroft Dissertation Prize, 2010; History of Education Society Claude A. Eggertsen Dissertation Prize, 2011. Follow on Twitter @ATErickson Ansley Erickson C.V. Scholarly Interests History of Education in the United States Educational Policy Educational Inequality Urban and Metropolitan History Selected Publications Books Erickson, A. Making the Unequal Metropolis: School Desegregation and Its Limits (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2016). Articles & Book Chapters Erickson, A. "Schools in U.S. Cities." Oxford Research Encyclopedia of American History, October 2018. Erickson, A. and Highsmith, A. "The Neighborhood Unit: Schools, Segregation, and the Shaping of the Modern Metropolis," Teachers College Record, March 2018. Erickson, A. "Fairness, Commitment, and Civic Capacity: The Varied Desegregation Trajectories of Metropolitan Districts," in The Shifting Landscape of the American School District, David Gamson and Emily Hodge, eds. (New York: Peter Lang, 2018), 107-126. Erickson, A. “Desegregation’s Architects: Education Parks and the Spatial Ideology of Schooling,” History of Education Quarterly, November 2016. Erickson, A. "Case Study as Common Text: Collaborating in and Broadening the Reach of History of Education," History of Education Quarterly, February, 2016. Highsmith, A. and Erickson, A. "Segregation as Splitting and Joining: Schools, Housing, and the Many Modes of Jim Crow," American Journal of Education, August, 2015. Erickson, A. "Historical Research and the Problem of Categories: Reflections on 10,000 Digital Notecards, in Jack Dougherty and Kristen Nawrotzki, eds. Writing History: How Historians Research, Write, and Publish in the Digital Age. (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 2013) and www.digitalculturebooks.org Erickson, A. "Building Inequality: The Spatial Organization of Schooling in Nashville, TN, after Brown." Journal of Urban History, Vol. 38, No. 2 (March 2012), 247-270. Commentary & Public Communications Erickson, A. "As historians and New York City educators, here’s what we hope teachers hear in the city’s new anti-bias training." Chalkbeat NY, May 17, 2018. Erickson, A. "Affordable Housing, Public Transit, A Mayoral Runoff, Racially Separated Schools. Welcome to Nashville - In 1971." Nashville Scene, August 13, 2015. Erickson, A. "Slavery and American Colleges: Historical Entanglements that Matter for Inequality Today," Teachers College Record, May 31, 2014. Erickson, A. "The Rhetoric of Choice: Segregation, Desegregation, and Charter Schools." Dissent. (Fall 2011) and reprinted in Michael Katz and Mike Rose, eds. Public Education Under Siege. (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2013) Reviews Erickson, A. Review of Richard Rothstein, The Color of Law: The Forgotten Story of How Our Government Segregated America. History of Education Quarterly, 2018 Erickson, A. Review of Campbell Scribner, The Fight for Local Control: Schools, Suburbs, and American Democracy. Journal of American History, March 2018 "Schools in Cities," Oxford Research Encyclopedia of American History Grants Research Support Provost's Investment Fund, Teachers College, Columbia, 2012-13 NAE/Spencer Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2011-13 Clifford Roberts/Eisenhower Institute Dissertation Fellowship, 2009-10 Mrs. Giles A. Whiting Fellowship, 2009-10 (declined to accept Eisenhower) Mellon Interdisciplinary Graduate Fellowship, 2007-2009 Spencer Dissertation Fellowship, 2007-9 Archival and Oral History Research Support Buell Oral History Research Grant Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Library Moody Research Fellowship Tennessee Historical Society Wills Research Grant Other Support Maxine Greene Foundation and the Fund for Teachers, for "Crossing Town: Brown's Legacy in Nashville." Related Articles The Rhetoric of Choice: Segregation, Desegregation, and Charter Schools Writing in the fall 2011 issue of Dissent Magazine, TC's Ansley Erickson argues that a common thread links the current rhetoric of "school choice"and opposition to court-ordered busing for desegregation 40 years ago. New Faculty Member Wins Bancroft Dissertation Prize Ansley Erickson has received the prestigious Bancroft Dissertation Award, given by Columbia University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for outstanding Columbia dissertations in American History (including biography), diplomacy, or international affairs for outstanding Columbia dissertations in American History (including biography), diplomacy, or international affairs. A Group of TC Faculty Condemns the Release of Teacher Evaluations Based on Student Test Scores Group of TC Faculty Condemn the Release of Teacher Evaluations Based on Student Test Scores Documents Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links