Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Evening MBA Admissions Home » Programs » MBA » Evening MBA » Admissions » Admissions Menu Evening MBA Admissions Tuition & Financing International MBA Applicants Class Profile Evening MBA Test-Optional FAQs Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Evening MBA Admissions It's time to make an investment in yourself. The Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA program enrolls twice per year and begins in the spring (January) and fall (August). The admission process for our part-time MBA has two main parts: A complete program application and an admission interview. Admission is a competitive process, and we carefully review all facets of your application. The information you include in your application assists our admissions committee in evaluating your potential for success in graduate studies and as a business leader. Evening MBA Prerequisites Work Experience While it's not required, we recommend at least two years of professional work experience before starting the program. Students currently enrolled in the Evening MBA have an average of seven years of work experience. In addition to more advanced contributions to the classroom, we believe that students who have professional work experience find the MBA more enriching professionally and personally. Academic Credentials We welcome applicants with four-year accredited bachelor's degrees from all academic backgrounds. While the MBA core courses move at a fast pace, they do not assume previous business coursework. Transcripts from your undergraduate and any additional graduate enrollment must be provided. You may upload unofficial copies for initial review, but an official admission invitation will not be extended until official transcripts have been received and processed by Graduate Studies. We define an unofficial transcript as either an official electronic transcript or an official paper transcript that you (the applicant) have scanned, uploaded, or emailed to us. Evening MBA Admissions Process A complete Evening MBA application includes the online application (including an application fee and three required essays), resume demonstrating post-graduate work experience, an unofficial transcript from each college/university attended, two letters of recommendation, and GMAT, GRE, or EA scores from within the past five years. You also have the option of applying without a test score. Start your application Essays There are three required essays and one optional essay. Why an MBA and why Georgia Tech? (Required) Describe how your experiences, both professional and personal, have led you to the decision to pursue an MBA at Georgia Tech. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Short- and long-term career goals (Required) Discuss your short- and long-term career goals and how Georgia Tech is best suited to help you achieve your goals. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Ten facts (Required) List 10 facts about yourself that will help your future classmates get to know you. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Optional essay The admissions committee believes that the required essays address issues that help us learn about you and understand your candidacy for the MBA program; however, you may provide us with any additional information pertinent to your admission that has not been previously covered in the rest of the application. Feel free to discuss any unique aspects of your candidacy or any perceived weaknesses. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). GMAT, GRE, or EA Scores Any applicant may submit a valid GMAT or GRE score to be considered for admission. Applicants with a minimum of five years of full-time professional work experience may submit an Executive Assessment (EA) score to be considered. Scores are valid for five years, and we accept your highest overall score. Refer to the chart above for admission deadlines and use the following codes to submit scores directly to Georgia Tech: GMAT: Institute code for the evening MBA program is HWK-54-44 GRE: Institute code is 5248 EA: Select Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Evening MBA We typically receive your official scores in about a week. Visit the official GMAT, GRE, and Executive Assessment websites for more information on scheduling and preparing for your exam. You can also apply without a standardized test score. Learn more about the test-optional admissions policy. Applying Without a Test Score The Evening MBA program has implemented a test-optional admissions policy. Any applicant who can demonstrate strong quantitative skills through their academic and professional work experience is welcome to apply without a test score. Prospective students do not have to meet certain criteria in order to pursue this option. Letters of Recommendation Two professional letters of recommendation are required with the application. The Evening MBA online application includes the option to add up to three recommenders, however, only two recommendations are expected for the MBA application. The admissions committee requests one of your recommendations come from your current manager. As soon as you send a recommendation request within the online application, an email will be sent directly to the recommender. The email will include instructions on how to complete the online letter of recommendation. To ensure receipt of the email, please inform each recommender prior to submitting the recommendation requests. The Evening MBA program also accepts the Common Letter of Recommendation (LOR) posted on the GMAC website. When your recommenders receive the email asking for their recommendation, they can upload the Common LOR as part of the recommendation. Application Fee An application fee of $75 is required to complete your application. After you submit your application, you will be directed to a secured page that will request your credit card information for this payment. Admissions Interview An interview is required for admission to the Evening MBA program. Interviews give you a chance to discuss your potential contributions to the classroom and emphasize your interest in the MBA program. They also provide an opportunity for you to get a better feel for the MBA program and how it may help you achieve your goals. Interviews are scheduled on an invitation-only basis. Once a preliminary review of your application has been completed, if you are selected for an interview, we will contact you to schedule. Have plans to visit in person before you apply? If you have not submitted your application but believe you have competitive test scores and work experience, you can send your resume and a copy of your test scores to and request a pre-assessment consultation. Deadlines Fall 2022 Enrollment: Round Application Deadline Interviews* Notification Enrollment Fee Due 1 February 21, 2022 March 7 - 15, 2022 March 25, 2022 April 15, 2022 2 April 18, 2022 May 2 - 13, 2022 May 20, 2022 June 3, 2022 3 May 19, 2022 May 31 - June 10, 2022 June 17, 2022 June 27, 2022 4 June 24, 2022 Rolling Rolling One week after notification *Interviews are by invitation only. Spring 2023 Enrollment: Round Application Deadline Interviews* Notification Enrollment Fee Due 1 August 29, 2022 September 12 - 26, 2022 September 30, 2022 October 21, 2022 2 October 3, 2022 October 17 - 24, 2022 October 28, 2022 November 11, 2022 3 October 31, 2022 November 7 - 15, 2022 November 18, 2022 December 2, 2022 *Interviews are by invitation only. Orientation Fall 2022 Evening MBA orientation will be held Friday, August 12 - Saturday, August 13, 2022. All incoming students are required to attend. Start your application Class Profile Gain multiple viewpoints and start to think more strategically about the global economy through diversity in the classroom. Learn more Financing Your Degree Graduate school is an investment towards your future. When making any important financial decision, you should weigh your total cost against the expected return on investment. Learn more Student Organizations Learn about extracurricular opportunities available to Evening MBA students. Learn more Meet Us Connect with Evening MBA admissions staff and ambassadors. Learn more Request More Information Thank you for requesting more information about our programs. In the meantime, access our online brochures filled with helpful information about our MBA programs. Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures