Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Missions & Public Life Menu Explore About Us Our Guiding Principles Our Team Missions & Public Life + Illuminate Global Missions + Global Baylor Global Engagement Certificate Join Our E-mail List FAQs Connect With Us Go Global Global Missions Teams Due March 18: Zambia Business Consulting (August 2022) BearsAbroad Login Support Raising Letter Writing Donor Forms Make a Payment 23FY Mission Trip Payments Team Leaders 2021-2022 Proposal Process BearQuest Tutorials Team Leader Covenant Team Leader Manual Final Itinerary Help Partnership Exploration Request Global Safety & Security Spring Break Disaster Relief Teams Love Local Service Hurricane Ida Relief First Step Baylor Buddies MLK Day of Service Santa's Workshop Steppin' Out Freerice Find if on Fifth Love Local Teams Better Together Better Together Learning Community Civic Interfaith Studies News Events Signature Events Missions Week Give About Us Baylor>Missions & Public Life>Explore>About Us About Us Missions and Public Life strives to shape Baylor's faithful engagement with Waco and the world. Our hope is to make a better world together, by integrating faith, service, and learning. We provide opportunities for students to love their neighbors by deepening human connection, cultivating self-discovery, developing a healthy worldview, and equipping servant-leaders. The Good Neighbor Initiative The Good Neighbor Initiative is our guiding strategy that drives our efforts to connect people to work collaboratively to solve global issues, and become better leaders and citizens. The Good Neighbor Initiative is comprised of projects and programs that focus on our commitment to love God, and love our neighbor, while learning how to be a good neighbor. Good Neighbor Initiative programs seek to: Cultivate self-discovery and human connection Amplify hope, healing and wholeness for our global community Encourage love and compassion in our daily lives with others Global Missions Global Missions teams are faculty-led, team-based opportunities to grow, lead, and serve while immersing yourself in different cultures. These global experiences provide transformational opportunities to integrate your faith, service, and learning in more than 20 destinations across the U.S. and the world. Go Global Local Ministries Local Ministries partner with local churches and organizations, to engage, love, and serve the greater Waco community. Through Urban Missions and Youth Ministry Teams, students discover their calling, connect with their passion, whether that's youth ministry, teaching ESL classes, or caring for the elderly. Love Local Public Deliberation Initiative The Public Deliberation Initiative (PDI) at Baylor University is an initiative of critical deliberative democracy, activism, interdisciplinary collaboration, pedagogical research, student involvement, and training for ongoing community engagement. PDI seeks to engage students, staff, faculty, and community members in constructive dialogue and deliberation that addresses important global and local issues and offers new perspectives for participants. Learn More Better Together BU Sponsored in collaboration with the Department of Multicultural Affairs and Missions and Public Life, #BetterTogetherBU is our on-campus interfaith group, one of many in the nation, that's an extension of the Interfaith Youth Core's national network of organizations passionate about interfaith dialogue, bridging differences to collaboratively address global issues, and developing civically-engaged leaders and citizens. Learn More Office of Spiritual Life As part of the Office of Spiritual Life at Baylor University, our mission is to advance the university mission by nurturing theological depth, spiritual wholeness, and missional living in students, staff, and faculty at Baylor University. Office of Spiritual Life Explore About Us Our Guiding Principles Our Team Missions & Public Life + Illuminate Global Missions + Global Baylor Global Engagement Certificate Join Our E-mail List FAQs Connect With Us Missions & Public Life Bobo Spiritual Life Center 500 Speight Ave. Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-3517 missions@baylor.edu bettertogether@baylor.edu Go GlobalLove LocalBe A Team LeaderBe a Good NeighborSupport a Team General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Explore About Us Our Guiding Principles Our Team Missions & Public Life + Illuminate Global Missions + Global Baylor Global Engagement Certificate Join Our E-mail List FAQs Connect With Us Go Global Global Missions Teams Due March 18: Zambia Business Consulting (August 2022) BearsAbroad Login Support Raising Letter Writing Donor Forms Make a Payment 23FY Mission Trip Payments Team Leaders 2021-2022 Proposal Process BearQuest Tutorials Team Leader Covenant Team Leader Manual Final Itinerary Help Partnership Exploration Request Global Safety & Security Spring Break Disaster Relief Teams Love Local Service Hurricane Ida Relief First Step Baylor Buddies MLK Day of Service Santa's Workshop Steppin' Out Freerice Find if on Fifth Love Local Teams Better Together Better Together Learning Community Civic Interfaith Studies News Events Signature Events Missions Week Give