<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Doctoral Programs Introduce Yourself Apply Students on the Job Market For Alumni Overview PHD Programs Research Community Admissions & Financial Support Placement …→ Harvard Business School→ Doctoral Programs→ Program for Research in Markets & Organizations Program for Research in Markets & Organizations Program Details Research Areas Key Dates Apply PRIMO Stories FAQs → Program for Research in Markets & Organizations Program for Research in Markets & Organizations Program Details Research Areas Key Dates Apply PRIMO Stories FAQs Undergraduate Research A 10-week program for undergraduates who wish to work closely with Harvard Business School faculty on research projects on topics ranging from business strategy to social media, and from innovation management to private equity. Program Details Research Areas Key Dates Apply PRIMO Stories FAQs 1ms PRIMO has been designed to bring together a select group of motivated undergraduates interested in getting exposure to business research on a variety of cutting-edge ideas. The primary goal of the program is to build and foster a strong community of scholars committed to excellence in research as part of the Harvard Summer Undergraduate Research Village. In the pursuit of its educational mission, Harvard Business School strongly encourages applications from under-represented groups. Next year, the program will be entering its twelfth year. PRIMO will tentatively run from Monday, June 6, 2022 through Thursday, August 11, 2022. (Program dates, along with the move-in and move-out schedule, will be confirmed.) PRIMO fellows will be offered Harvard campus housing, a partial board plan, and a modest research stipend. As part of the community of researchers, students will participate in enrichment activities such as faculty lectures, professional development workshops, presentation opportunities, and social events. PRIMO is open to continuing students (those who will be rising sophomores, juniors, or seniors at the time of the program) who are in good standing at a 4-year undergraduate institution in the United States. Students must commit to the full ten weeks of the program. Student applications for the 2022 program are now closed. For complete application instructions, see Apply. Marais Young Associate Director, PRIMO Send E-mail ǁ Doctoral Programs Harvard Business School Wyss House Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6101 Email: doctoralprograms+hbs.edu Registrar: docreg+hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College