Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>Registering for Classes>Returning Student Reactivation>Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Returning Student Reactivation 1. Do I need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? 2. Do I need to pay a fee to apply for reactivation? 3. Is a deposit required for enrollment following reactivation? 4. When one begins an application reactivation, which type of application should be initiated? 5. Where do undergraduate students applying for reactivation send transcripts? 6. Are high school transcripts required if I have been previously enrolled as a student at Baylor University? 7. Do students that have been suspended (academic or disciplinary) need to initiate an application through the reactivation process in order to return to the University? 8. As a "Returning User" what does one need to do if they do not remember their BearID and/or Password? 9. What is a Banner ID? 10. How long does the reactivation process take? 11. Once I am reactivated, what do I do next? 12. Who do I contact if I have questions about submitting the reactivation form? 13. If I am pursuing reactivation at Baylor and want to change my major, is there a way to do that through the reactivation process? 14. Do Graduate, Seminary, or Law students need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? 15. What is the last day to submit the reactivation application for an upcoming term? 16. I just graduated in May/December but wish to take undergraduate classes in the succeeding semester. Do I need to complete the reactivation process? 17. I wish to return to Baylor in order to take additional undergraduate classes after graduating a few semesters ago. Do I need to complete the returning student reactivation process? 18. I graduated from Baylor University and wish to return as a Post-Bacc and retake some classes in which I did not do well. Will I be able to use Academic Forgiveness for the classes I retake? Returning Student Reactivation 1. Do I need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? Did you withdraw from Baylor during the fall or spring semester immediately before your desired return term? Were you not enrolled at Baylor for the fall or spring semester immediately before your desired return term? If you are an Undergraduate student and answered yes to either question above, you must complete a Student Reactivation Application. 2. Do I need to pay a fee to apply for reactivation? No. 3. Is a deposit required for enrollment following reactivation? No. 4. When one begins an application reactivation, which type of application should be initiated? Please choose the option for a "Returning Student" along with your planned year of return. 5. Where do undergraduate students applying for reactivation send transcripts? Please direct those to the Baylor University, Office of the Registrar, One Bear Place #97068, Waco, TX 76798. 6. Are high school transcripts required if I have been previously enrolled as a student at Baylor University? No. 7. Do students that have been suspended (academic or disciplinary) need to initiate an application through the reactivation process in order to return to the University? Yes. They should also refer to any additional requirements that may have been communicated to them at the time of the suspension. 8. As a "Returning User" what does one need to do if they do not remember their BearID and/or Password? Visit or contact the Helpdesk at: 254/710-4357 or Email: Helpdesk@baylor.edu 9. What is a Banner ID? This is a nine-digit id number that typically begins with an "8" (not your SSN). 10. How long does the reactivation process take? The amount of time it takes to review a reactivation application varies based on the circumstances of each student. Depending on the items to be reviewed, it could take a day or it could take a matter of weeks. In order to facilitate a timely opportunity to register for the desired term, it is recommended that you submit the application as early as possible. 11. Once I am reactivated, what do I do next? Once activated, a student will be assigned a registration time-ticket for the term that they are reactivated for. An e-mail notification will be sent to their baylor.edu email address once the time-ticket has been assigned. 12. Who do I contact if I have questions about submitting the reactivation form? For questions about the reactivation process, please contact the Office of the Registrar at: registrar@baylor.edu. 13. If I am pursuing reactivation at Baylor and want to change my major, is there a way to do that through the reactivation process? Students that are inactive and want to change their major will need to be reactivated first. Once reactivated, then they can pursue a change of major. 14. Do Graduate, Seminary, or Law students need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? No. The Student Reactivation Application is currently only for Undergraduate Students. Graduate and Seminary Students should contact Graduate Admissions or Seminary, while Law students should contact the Law School. 15. What is the last day to submit the reactivation application for an upcoming term? We have provided specific deadline information on the reactivation webpage www.baylor.edu/registrar/studentreactivation. 16. I just graduated in May/December but wish to take undergraduate classes in the succeeding semester. Do I need to complete the reactivation process? No. The reactivation process is for former Baylor students who have been away for at least one Fall or Spring semester. If you graduated and plan to return to Baylor the next semester, your record will need to be reopened as a Post-Baccalaureate student. Please contact the Office of the Registrar at 254-710-1181 to open a Post-Baccalaureate record. 17. I wish to return to Baylor in order to take additional undergraduate classes after graduating a few semesters ago. Do I need to complete the returning student reactivation process? Yes. If you graduated from Baylor and have been away for at least one Fall or Spring semester, you will need to complete the reactivation process. 18. I graduated from Baylor University and wish to return as a Post-Bacc and retake some classes in which I did not do well. Will I be able to use Academic Forgiveness for the classes I retake? No. The Academic Forgiveness option ends once a degree has been awarded. BACK TO TOP Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site