Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About About the Department Students & Career Enriched Learning Message from the Chair Ranked Programs Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Department of Anthropology About Enriched Learning Enriched Learning Students conducting surveys on a Shelby Farms Greenline Project "The community engaged projects are an incredible opportunity to tie coursework into real experiences. Participating in these projects provided great insight into class material that otherwise would not have been possible." Erica, undergraduate Anthropology Major What is enriched learning? Service Learning Classroom instruction paired with meaningful community service to promote a sense of outreach and civic engagement. Engaged Scholarship Academic projects that engage faculty and students in a collaborative and sustained manner with community groups to connect university outreach with organizational goals. Internships Training and experience in governmental agencies, non-profit organizations, businesses, museums, hospitals and more. Directed Readings and Research Intensive student-faculty guided study or research of original data. Study Abroad See the Study Abroad website for details. Enriched learning courses American Communities Anthropological Methods Anthropology of Tourism, Sustainability and the Environment Applied Anthropology and Development Applied Archaeology and Museums Biocultural Epidemiology Culture and Consumerism Culture, Sex and Childbirth Directed Anthropological Internship Food, Culture and Power Health, Culture and Environmental Justice Medical Anthropology Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice Museum Practices Museums and Communities Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship Race and Health Disparities Recent projects Check out some of the exciting work our students have been doing! Each semester course offerings and enriched learning opportunities vary. Talk with your instructors to find out what new projects they are planning. Community Development and Social Justice Students conducting research on community gardens Students in Culture and Consumerism; Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship, and; Health, Culture and Environmental Justice have collaborated with GrowMemphis and the South Memphis Farmers Market to support the implementation of the community-led South Memphis Revitalization Action Plan, and to conduct research with community garden leaders and market vendors and customers. Similarly, in Food, Culture and Power, students worked with the Food Advisory Council to conduct research on school lunches and community gardening at a local elementary school. Students in Health, Culture and Environmental Justice and Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship helped develop and conduct an ethnographic evaluation of the joint Sierra Club, University of Memphis grassroots environmental justice conference in the fall of 2014. Finally, faculty have offered or collaborated on study abroad classes including Dr. Brondo's Anthropology of Tourism, Sustainability and the Environment in Costa Rica. Medical Anthropology Student conducting research on medicinal plants in Ecuador Students in Medical Anthropology and other courses have researched condom access for a Shelby County Health Department evaluation and supported a county-wide Teen Pregnancy and Parenting evaluation. A number of graduate students traveled to Saraguro Ecuador with Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman to conduct research on medicinal plants. Students in Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice researched the local availability and awareness of medications to prevent HIV, and developed training materials for an online course in health equity. Finally, students in Health, Culture and Environmental Justice and Race and Health Disparities have investigated environmental inequality and associated health implications in Memphis. Museums Students sorting through artifacts at the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa In museum based cultural heritage classes, all students propose, create, and install real-time projects in a Memphis area museum. Projects are based in museum best practices and include curation, exhibits, marketing plans, community outreach, and educational programs. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/13/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.