Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Clinical Psychology About People Undergraduate Admissions Major in Psychology Minor in Psychology Distance Education Advising Appointments Scholarships Announcements Graduate Department of Psychology Graduate Scholarships Admissions Handbooks and Bulletins Clinical Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience Industrial Organizational Social Psychological Science Research Clinics Directions Giving What to Support What to Support Types of Donations Contact Us News INSIGHTS Newsletter Archive UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of Psychology Clinical Psychology Research Center for Couples Therapy Clinical Psychology About Major Areas of Study Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data People Research Anxiety and Health Research Lab / Substance Use Treatment Clinic Child Temperament, Thoughts and Emotions Laboratory Center for Couples Therapy The Couples Check-Up Relationship Counseling Map & Directions About Us Center for Forensic Psychology Cognitive Neuropsychology of Daily Life (CNDL) Laboratory Collaborative on Aging Research and Multicultural Assessment (CARMA) Culture, Risk, and Resilience Lab Developmental Neuropsychology Lab Developmental Psychopathology Lab Laboratory of Early Experience and Development (LEED) Sleep and Anxiety Center of Houston Trauma and Stress Studies Center Measurement and Intervention for Neuropsychological Disorders (MIND) Lab Youth & Family Studies Lab Diversity Clinical Psychology Program Diversity Committee News Giving The Center for Couples Therapy Department of Psychology 1017 Psychology Research and Services Center in the Clinical Research Services Bldg. 4505 Cullen Blvd. The University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-6021 Phone: 713-743-8600 Center for Couples Therapy Couples Check-up Our Couples Check-up involves a comprehensive assessment of a couple’s strength and weaknesses in communication and conflict. This profile is based on an extensive body of research on those facets of couples’ interaction that are related to long-term relationship success. The Couples Check-up involves completion of questionnaires designed to tap the key relationship dimensions, actual observations of couple’s communication around issues of conflict, and measures of psychophysiological functioning that reflect patterns of emotional arousal. Information is obtained from husbands and wives separately, and summarized to provide an individualized profile for relationship success for each couple. Once completed, a comprehensive report summarizing these results is prepared and discussed with the couple in an individualized feedback session with a licensed psychologist (for $450) or with a graduate student ($300). For more information, call The Center for Couples Therapy at 713-743-8600, or e-mail couples@uh.edu. Helping couples help themselves. Starting soon! New couples group starting one evening per week 6:00pm - 8:00pm. This 12-week long Gottman Method group meets in room 1100 Health 2 building. Cost is $30 per couple per session. Email couples@uh.edu for more information. Low-fee couples therapy Low-fee couples therapy on campus is now available in the new Health 2 building. Cost starts at $50 per couple per session, based on a sliding scale considering income and number of dependents. Email couples@uh.edu for more information. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies