Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Transportation Ready to roll The University of Washington is located in a vibrant metropolitan region with access to a wide range of transportation options. The U-PASS makes getting around a breeze — no car required. Your student’s quarterly U-PASS fees let them access public transit with their Husky Card, including unlimited rides on Metro and regional buses, as well as Link Light Rail. The U-PASS also provides discounts on vanpools, carpools and transportation-related items, such as bicycles. Talk with your Husky How to use public transportation Safety while biking or walking Places to explore in Seattle and beyond Explore more conversation topics Bus and light rail The Link Light Rail station at Husky Stadium and the U District Light Rail station provide convenient access to downtown Seattle, Sea-Tac Airport and other regional transportation networks. Dozens of bus routes operated by Sound Transit and King County Metro serve the University District, connecting students to neighborhoods and cities throughout the Puget Sound region. UW Transportation Services Bicycling routes and safety The UW is a national leader in campus bicycle facilities. Thousands of Huskies cycle to school and work each day, many using the Burke-Gilman trail, which runs through campus. You can help your student plan their route, figure out where to keep their bike, and learn about rules and safety. Bicycling resources More to explore Walking and accessibility Walking is by far the most popular way to get around the UW campus. Help your student plan their route and learn more about campus accessibility. Pedestrian resources at UW Nighttime safety The UW offers several resources to help students get around safely at night, including Husky NightWalk and the NightRide Shuttle. Safety escort services A place for commuters The Commuter & Transfer Commons has day-use lockers, phone chargers, a kitchenette, changing and lactation rooms, a study area and other resources — just for students who live off campus. Commuter & Transfer Commons Campus contacts Transportation Services Transit, parking & nighttime services 206-221-3701 ucommute@uw.edu U-PASS Public transportation pass 206-221-3701 Commuter & Transfer Commons Love Your Stuff Bike Registration University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA