Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Blog Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Interested in Biological Sciences? Take a short tour of the department and learn how you can be a part Ecological Genetics Graduate Course Working in groups to quantify genetic effects in a wild population of butterflies. Find out more about the Graduate Program. Graduate Student Attends Ridge to Reef Climate and Life Summer Institute Learn more about the Institute and other news on the Department of Biological Sciences blog. Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience (CURE) Giving Students Hands-on Lab Experience in developing technical skills, learning to trouble-shoot experimental designs, problem-solving and more... PreviousNext Take Action DEI Resources Seminar Schedule Research and Program Facilities Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Nationally Ranked # 190 U.S. News and World Report Biology - Graduate View All Rankings Home Biological Sciences Creating Leaders in Research, Education and Service Welcome to the Department of Biological Sciences! Take a short video tour of the department Our department comprises undergraduate and graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty and staff with broad interests and a fascination for biology and the natural world. From stem cells to systematics and molecules to whole environments, we research and teach a diverse and integrative set of disciplines. We strive to create leaders in research, education, and service and feature facilities well-equipped for contemporary research in the laboratory, field, and computational biology. The Department of Biological Sciences focuses on programs that unite five major areas: Biology Education Research; Cellular & Molecular Biology; Ecology, Evolution, & Conservation Biology; Genetics, Genomics, & Bioinformatics; and Physiology & Behavior. Faculty research programs reflect the interdisciplinary strength of our department while providing a firm foundation in theoretical focal areas; see our Research Areas page. Nationally and internationally recognized research is conducted in numerous centers within the department: The Center for Biodiversity Research, The Ecological Research Center, The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station, The Integrated Microscopy Center, and The University of Memphis Herbarium; see our Centers Page. The diversity of the natural world reminds us to strive for a diverse community in our department and we welcome, celebrate, value, and support diversity in many different forms: diversity of race and ethnicity, of religions and cultures, of world views, of gender identity/expression and sexual orientation, of socioeconomic status, of immigration status, of abilities, of lived experiences and future ambitions, and of intellectual perspectives and scientific approaches. The Department of Biological Sciences promotes diversity and inclusion as part of our core values and we strive to maintain a forum where all voices are heard. Our goal is to include all that would like to participate in the life of the Department of Biological Sciences, and our departmental Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion committee includes faculty, staff, and student members. Equity is another core departmental value, which involves the recognition that not all faculty, staff, and students began their journey to the University of Memphis from the same starting point. For many people, there are barriers that lead to an imbalance in access to advantages that are not available to all. Underrepresented groups have often had unequal access to resources that help prepare them for successful careers in the biological sciences. As a department, we strive to provide equal access to these resources at all levels (undergraduate, graduate, postdoctoral, staff, and faculty) and in all aspects of our departmental work including courses, seminars, research, advising scholarships, and professional development. Biology@memphis Blog Did you know the department has a blog? Check it out! #PADisBAD: What is plant awareness disparity and why is it a problem? Dr. Puckett attends International Sun Bear Symposium History of Meeman Biological Station – Latvian Refugees at Meeman Farm Course-based Undergraduate Research Experience (CURE) Daisies and Dinosaurs Field experience at an Urban University?! Streamed Live Seminars and Events Grants, Fellowships and Awards Publications, and more Read it! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.