Skip to site alert. Skip to content Student Health on Haven After-Hours Care Emergencies Student Health Portal Search About Us About Us Our Team Appointments and Services Advanced Access Scheduling Confidentiality Emergencies After-Hours Care News and Announcements Events Contact Us Advanced Directive Patient Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Counseling Services Insurance and Administration Medical Services Well-Being and Health Promotion Our Services Our Services Acupuncture Acute and Chronic Illness Treatment Laboratory Services Men's Health Nutrition Services Occupational Exposures PrEP - Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Preventive Services Travel Medicine Transgender Health Vaccinations Women's Health Groups and Gathering Spaces Individual Counseling Psychiatric Evaluation Well-Being Strategy Sessions AIMS Appointment for Substance Use We provide a full range of primary care medical services, counseling services, and health promotion programming to support your well-being. Outreach and Programs Outreach and Programs Addiction Information and Management Strategies (AIMS) AIMS Mini-Grants Campus Connect Training Mental Health Rounds Motivational Interviewing Training Naloxone Training Queer and Ally Partnership Social Host (SoHo) Alcohol Training Well-Being Curriculum Infusion Well-Being and Health Promotion Programs Student Health provides programs and training opportunities to support and extend your health sciences education and training at CUIMC. Insurance and Administration Insurance and Administration Pre-Registration Requirements Health Insurance Waiving Coverage Enrollment and Fees Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students Dental Benefits Vision Benefits Insurance FAQ Contact the Team Medical Records Request We are here to provide help with insurance information, reimbursements or billing concerns, and other administrative needs. Resources and Support Resources and Support COVID-19 Resources CUIMC My SSP - 24/7 Support via Chat & Phone Black Well-Being and Ally Resources Asian and AAPI Students Disability Services Helping a Friend or Student in Distress International Students LGBTQ+ Students Sexual and Reproductive Health Students with Children Support for Survivors of Sexual Violence Veterans COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students COVID-19 Testing for CUIMC Students How to Isolate or Quarantine Coping During a Pandemic COVID-19 Student Service Corps (CSSC) Student Health on Haven is committed to connecting you to resources to support all dimensions of graduate student well-being. You are here Home > Our Services > Individual Counseling Acupuncture Acute and Chronic Illness Treatment Laboratory Services Men's Health Nutrition Services Occupational Exposures PrEP - Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Preventive Services Travel Medicine Transgender Health Vaccinations Women's Health Groups and Gathering Spaces Individual Counseling Psychiatric Evaluation Well-Being Strategy Sessions AIMS Appointment for Substance Use Individual Counseling Counseling Services offers short-term treatment, as is clinically indicated, and provides consultation and referral for ongoing treatment in the community. Support Sessions Just looking for a one-off opportunity to connect with a clinician? These single-sessions meetings provide space for reflection, grounding, and support. They may be used to address experiences of racial trauma, process reactions to current events, and/or just see what it feels like to connect with a clinician if you're not sure about starting therapy. Visit the Student Health portal or call 212-305-3400 to schedule a Support Session. If you are already engaged in treatment with a clinician, we ask that you contact them directly. Individual Psychotherapy Interested in starting therapy? Discuss your needs with one of our clinicians and figure out what treatment might best serve you. Our providers are generalists comfortable treating a wide range of issues: anxiety, depression, trauma, concerns with eating and body, family and relationship issues, experiences of bias and discrimination, and adjustment and life transitions. We offer psychodynamic psychotherapy, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), and mindfulness-based therapy. Visit the Student Health portal or call 212-305-3400 to schedule an Initial Telephone Appointment. Confidentiality All services provided at Student Health on Haven are confidential, except in those rare instances of imminent risk of harm to self or others, or where otherwise required by law. Read more about Confidentiality at Student Health on Haven. Cost There are no out-of-pocket costs as services are covered under your Health and Related Services Fee (HRSF). Emergencies For life-threatening emergencies, call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room. If you have an immediate concern about suicide, either personally or for someone else, call Student Health at 212-305-3400. You may also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) or go to the nearest Emergency Room. After-Hours Care If you have an urgent mental health concern, we can help you determine what care you need and how best to get it. Call Student Health 24/7 at 212-305-3400. During business hours, your call will be answered by Student Health staff and directed appropriately. When we are closed, your call will be answered by our after-hours service. Select Option 7. Your call will be answered by our affiliate, CUIMC My SSP, and you will be able to speak with a mental health clinician. Our Team Meet the Counseling Services Team Make an Appointment To make an appointment, view our Appointments and Services page for details about scheduling. Visit the Student Health Portal to complete any required forms online prior to your visit. 212-305-3400 Request an Appointment Online Columbia University Irving Medical Center About Us Insurance and Administration Our Services Outreach and Programs Resources and Support Student Health Portal Columbia University Irving Medical Center Student Health on Haven Tower 2, 100 Haven Avenue 2nd Floor, Suite 230 New York, NY 10032 United States 212-305-3400 Follow Us Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top