Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Your Next Personal Assistant Could Be a Drone In an Experimental Flights course, a drone delivery network is being developed to allow students on Georgia Tech's Atlanta campus to place orders through a mobile app and have a drone deliver those items to a secure locker station close to their dorm. Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Launches New Online Business Analytics Graduate Certificate Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business is launching a new online Business Analytics Graduate Certificate with classes starting in Spring 2023. The program represents the first credit-earning online credential offered by the College. Maverick's Return Sparks Another Adrenaline Rush The Georgia Tech community gives insight into the real world of the film, its cultural significance, and the role of adrenaline in flight. Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Georgia Tech Majors and Degrees Georgia Tech offers a wide variety of technologically focused degrees. Explore the more than 130 majors and minors available. Prospective Students Choosing the right college can be complex. Learn more about Georgia Tech's academics, admissions, campus life, costs, and aid. Admissions Our holistic admission process considers your academic background as well as your pursuits and interests outside the classroom. Alumni Association Connecting our global network of alumni through events, volunteer opportunities, and career help. Government Relations Working with government partners to advance the Institute and our surrounding communities. Research Breaking down barriers and collaborating on research at the intersection of disciplines. Upcoming Events Tuesday May 31 Virtual Talk: The endless versatility of Washi Virtual 7:30pm to 8:30pm Discover the history of Japanese paper Wednesday Jun 1 Future U. Live Podcast Event Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design 4:00pm to 5:00pm On the third stop of its nationwide campus tour, the Future U. podcast will visit Atlanta to meet with the presidents and communities of both Georgia Tech and Emory University. Upcoming Events | View Calendar Recent News Celebrating National Bike Month May 19, 2022 With May designated as National Bike Month, and this week Bike to Work Week, it’s a good time to explore options for cycling on and near Georgia Tech’s campus. Winnefeld Appointed Chair of Key White House Intelligence Board May 19, 2022 Sandy Winnefeld, distinguished professor of the practice in the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, will lead advise President Biden on intelligence matters. Recent News | View News Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login