Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To About Awards Leadership Institutional Research Governance Honor Diversity and Inclusion Mission & Vision History Frequently Asked Questions Traditions Board of Visitors Interactive Map SERVICE. EXCELLENCE. INTEGRITY. ACADEMY LEADERSHIP Cadets aren’t the only members of the U.S. Air Force Academy family who are committed to Integrity First, Service Before Self, and Excellence in All We Do. The military officers and civilians who oversee each Mission Element of the Academy also exemplify these values. From the Superintendent to the Director of Athletics to the 306th Flying Training Group commander, each leader is dedicated to the mission of developing air, space and cyber-minded leaders in service to the United States. Learn more about these leaders. Lieutenant General Richard M. Clark Superintendent Profile Colonel Otis C. Jones Vice Superintendent (719) 333-7731 Profile Brigadier General Paul D. Moga Commandant of Cadets (719) 333-4290 Profile Brigadier General Linell A. Letendre Dean of Faculty (719) 333-4270 Profile Chief Master Sergeant Sarah Balian Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Dean of Faculty Profile Ms. Gail Colvin Director of Staff (719) 333-4510 Profile Colonel Scott E. Williams Vice Dean of Faculty (719) 333-8538 Profile Colonel Christopher J. Leonard Installation Commander (719) 333-1010 Profile Colonel Michael R. Stolley 306th Flying Training Group Commander (719) 333-3330 Profile Mr. Nathan Pine Director of Athletics (719) 333-4000 Profile Ms. Jennifer Block Executive Director of Athletics (719) 333-4008 Profile Colonel Melissa Youderian Commander of the Preparatory School (719) 333-2583 Profile Colonel Kurt A. Wendt Director of the Center for Character and Leadership Development (719) 333-4904 Profile Chief Master Sergeant Sarah A. Sparks Command Chief Master Sergeant (719) 333-7693 Profile Chief Master Sergeant Jerome S. Wright Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Commandant (719) 333-3485 Profile Chief Master Sergeant Mathew King Installation Command Chief (719) 333-1010 Profile ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.