Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater Education Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater Education Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Theater Education Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Theater Education Undergraduate Certificate Pursue a combination of education and theater studies with the Theater Education Undergraduate Certificate in Temple's School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Open to all undergraduates enrolled at Temple, this certificate program enhances students' self-confidence and presentation skills, improving their classroom presence and marketability. This five-course, 15-credit certificate program is taught on Temple's Main Campus and equips students with a foundational understanding of theater and the tools needed to share that knowledge, whether in a traditional classroom setting or as a teaching artist in a professional theater company. The Theater Education Undergraduate Certificate is an opportunity for students interested in teaching to improve their presence in front of a class. It also prepares them to add theater and drama to the range of subjects they can teach. The certificate includes the four courses that comprise the Pennsylvania Department of Education-approved Theater Endorsement. For students pursuing areas of study outside of theater, this certificate provides a chance to develop an interest in arts education; gain theater experience; and further valuable professional skills such as collaboration, confidence in public speaking and creativity. Students must be concurrently enrolled in a baccalaureate degree to earn this certificate. Classes & Curriculum Required courses include Acting 1, Methods of Teaching, Stage Management, Welcome Backstage and World of the Play. Learn more about Theater Education Undergraduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Design MFA Theater-Directing MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Musical Theater Studies MA Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate certificate in Theater Education. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Matthew Miller is the head of Theater Education & Stage Management and the program contact for the Theater Education Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-THED-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater Education Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info