Harvard Law School Jump to navigation HLS home > programs The John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics, and Business Welcome Welcome to the John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics, and Business at Harvard Law School. The purpose of the Center, which is supported by a grant from the John M. Olin Foundation, is to further student understanding of law and economics, promote faculty research in the area, and help make the bar and the public better aware of the economic approach. The Center supports a variety of activities, including student fellowships, research assistantships, prizes for the best student papers in law and economics, a seminar series in which invited speakers present works in progress to students and interested faculty, curriculum development, conferences, empirical and theoretical research, and the Harvard Law School Discussion Paper Series in Law and Economics. The Center also includes a special-purpose program, the Program on Corporate Governance. Altogether, the Center helps to provide a stimulating environment for students and faculty interested in law and economics. This web site is designed to provide information about the Center's major activities. For further information, contact Irina Goldina, Program Administrator. Olin Center Programs Additional information about the Center's activities can be found in the web site of another program operating within the Center, The Program on Corporate Governance. Program on Corporate Governance John M. Olin Prizes Prizes supported by a grant from the John M. Olin Foundation are awarded annually for the best papers written in the area of law and economics. The amount of a prize is $2,000. A professor must submit the paper on behalf of the student with a statement describing why the professor believes the paper is meritorious. Submission should be made before the end of classes in the Spring semester by email to Irina Goldina, Program Administrator. John M. Olin Fellowships in Law and Economics and Social Sciences To foster research and study in the area of law and economics, a number of students will be selected as Fellows in Law and Economics and will receive a stipend under a grant from the John M. Olin Foundation. The fellows will be expected to make significant commitments to writing in law and economics and to attend a seminar series in the area. To be eligible, an individual must be a JD or SJD student at Harvard Law School or a student in a Harvard PhD program with a strong and developed interest in law and economics. Further information may be found here. John M. Olin Fellowships in Empirical Law and Finance These fellowships are jointly administered and supported by the Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics, and Business and the Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance. Empirical research on issues at the intersection of law and finance (including in areas such as corporate governance, executive compensation, and financial regulation) is now undertaken by researchers in law, economics, finance, and accounting. These fellowships are accordingly open to students at Harvard Law School, Harvard Business School, and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Further information may be found here. Important notice: Additions to the Center’s Discussion Paper Series are announced by e-mail. For instructions on how to subscribe to the Discussion Paper Series distribution list, please see our Mailing List Subscription Page. Page last updated: Thu, Mar 25, 2021, 18:24:37 UTC. HLS Contact Information | Privacy Policy Section Links: Olin Center Home Courses Faculty Fellowships Faculty Discussion Paper Series Fellows Discussion Paper Series Law and Economics Seminar Olin Prizes Main site navigation: Admissions and Financial Aid Courses and Academic Programs Student Services HLS Home Faculty Administration Alumni Library Public Service Research Programs and Centers International Legal Studies News and Events HLS website The John M. Olin Center