Sign In Search Cart Search for: 0 Items for $0.00 Explore Subjects Books Browse By Subject By Title By Series Award Winning Titles Authors and Editors Current Authors Prospective Authors Journals Browse By Title By Subject Mathematics at DUP Journals fulfilled by DUP Journal Services Authors and Editors Submission Guidelines Ethics Statement for Journals Rights and Permissions Share Your Article Support for Journal Editors Author Resources from University Presses Journal Community Websites FAQ Conferences Prospective Journals DUP as a Publishing Partner Testimonials Start the Conversation Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Browse American Dialect Society American Society for Ethnohistory Association for Middle East Women's Studies GL/Q Caucus for the Modern Languages Labor and Working-Class History Association Population Association of America Society for French Historical Studies Society for Novel Studies Society Members and Officers How to Join a DUP-Affiliated Society About Your Account Support for Society Officers Conferences Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are Leadership Staff What We Do Blog News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Working at DUP Conferences Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Explore Subjects Books Browse Authors and Editors Journals Browse Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Societies Browse Society Members and Officers Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are What We Do News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Conferences Home / The Ruse of Repair The Ruse of Repair US Neoliberal Empire and the Turn from Critique Share Read the Introduction Book Pages: 328 Illustrations: 9 illustrations Published: September 2021 Author: Patricia Stuelke Subjects Gender and Sexuality, American Studies, Cultural Studies Since the 1990s, literary and queer studies scholars have eschewed Marxist and Foucauldian critique and hailed the reparative mode of criticism as a more humane and humble way of approaching literature and culture. The reparative turn has traveled far beyond the academy, influencing how people imagine justice, solidarity, and social change. In The Ruse of Repair, Patricia Stuelke locates the reparative turn's hidden history in the failed struggle against US empire and neoliberal capitalism in the 1970s and 1980s. She shows how feminist, antiracist, and anti-imperialist liberation movements' visions of connection across difference, practices of self care, and other reparative modes of artistic and cultural production have unintentionally reinforced forms of neoliberal governance. At the same time, the US government and military, universities, and other institutions have appropriated and depoliticized these same techniques to sidestep addressing structural racism and imperialism in more substantive ways. In tracing the reparative turn's complicated and fraught genealogy, Stuelke questions reparative criticism's efficacy in ways that will prompt critics to reevaluate their own reading practices. Praise “This brilliant study is a long-overdue critique of the flight from paranoid reading to reparative feeling in the humanities. Patricia Stuelke historicizes the turn to repair as symptom of, rather than as solution to, US violence, militarism, and counterinsurgency. Her examination of the rise of US neoliberal empire in the 1970s and 1980s from Southeast Asia to Latin America to the Middle East is sui generis and eye-opening.” — David L. Eng, Richard L. Fisher Professor of English, University of Pennsylvania “Patricia Stuelke offers an exciting interrogation of reparative modes of artistic, literary, and solidarity activism to establish how fantasies of repair serve US militaristic inventions and neoliberal financialization. Calling into question one of the foundations of liberal investments in political economy—that repair is achievable outside the circuits of capitalism and governance---Stuelke makes an important intervention into arguments about reparative justice in American studies, critical ethnic studies, literary studies, and critical theory.” — Jodi Byrd, author of The Transit of Empire: Indigenous Critiques of Colonialism “The Ruse of Repair will require its readers to reevaluate some of the beliefs they hold most dear, transforming American studies, ethnic and critical race studies, feminist studies, and beyond in the process.” — María Josefina Saldaña-Portillo, author of Indian Given: Racial Geographies across Mexico and the United States Buy Paperback Cloth Availability: In stock Please read our FAQ's to learn more about Pre-Orders Price: $27.95 Add to cart Buy the e-book: Amazon Kindle Apple iBooks Barnes & Noble nook Google Play Kobo Open Access Request a desk or exam copy Information Author/Editor Bios Table of Contents Rights Awards Additional Information Author/Editor Bios Back to Top Patricia Stuelke is Assistant Professor of English at Dartmouth College. Table of Contents Back to Top Acknowledgments vii Introduction: "After That, Baby . . ." 1 1. Freedom to Want 31 2. "Debt Work" 71 3. Solidarity as Settler Absolution 107 4. Veteran Diversity, Veteran Asynchrony 149 5. Invasion Love Plots and Antiblack Acoustics 189 Conclusion: Against Repair 215 Notes 219 Bibliography 265 Index 301 RightsBack to Top Sales/Territorial Rights: World Rights and licensing Awards Back to Top Additional InformationBack to Top Paper ISBN: 978-1-4780-1426-3 / Cloth ISBN: 978-1-4780-1335-8 Publicity material Front Cover Image High Resolution Cover Related Items Also Viewed Also Purchased Also Viewed Confidence Culture Sex Scandal In the Wake Cruel Optimism Staying with the Trouble The Revolution Will Not Be Funded Desi Land The Queer Art of Failure Vibrant Matter Complaint! Also Purchased Atmospheres of Violence Advances in LGBTQ rights in the recent past—marriage equality, the repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell, and the expansion of hate crimes... Complaint! In Complaint! Sara Ahmed examines what we can learn about power from those who complain about abuses of power. Drawing on oral and written testimonies from... Pollution Is Colonialism In Pollution Is Colonialism Max Liboiron presents a framework for understanding scientific research methods as practices that can align with or against... Reckoning with Slavery In Reckoning with Slavery Jennifer L. Morgan draws on the lived experiences of enslaved African women in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries to reveal... Duke University Press 905 W. Main St. Ste 18-B Durham, NC 27701 USA Phone (888) 651-0122 International +1 (919) 688-5134 Email orders@dukeupress.edu Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Careers View Open Positions Working at Duke University Press Join Our Mailing List Recent Catalogs Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Pintrest Instagram © 2022 Duke University Press. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility Legal Privacy Top