Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Take a Tour of Student Housing! Starting on Monday, November 1, 2021, we're happy to say that we'll once again be offering in-person tours of our facilities here at Student Housing. Our tours are scheduled for 12 p.m. on weekdays only. In an effort to keep our guests safe, we're limiting capacity for our tours by requiring appointments, and all guests are required to wear face coverings for the duration of the tour, regardless of vaccination status. After you sign up for a tour using the signup page below, please plan to arrive 5-10 minutes before the scheduled start time of your tour, and plan for about 45 minutes to an hour for your tour, depending on the number of questions your tour guide receives. Tour Schedule Days Time Monday – Friday 12 p.m. by appointment only. Saturday and Sunday No tours available. Student Housing Tour Signup » Virtual Tours We're also happy to offer virtual, self-guided tours of all of our spaces for our guests who aren't able to come to campus for an in-person tour. Our virtual tour below can be accessed on your computer, tablet, or mobile device; and our staff are available during our business hours to answer any questions you might have. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.