Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Partnerships & Exchanges Graduate School Skip to Navigation Partnerships & Exchanges One of the Brown's strengths is its ability to create and sustain meaningful partnerships and exchange programs with external institutions. By creating programs through which faculty and students can join forces with scientists, scholars, and artists in the region and far beyond, Brown has created a whole series of new and innovative research opportunities and degree and exchange programs. Partners range from the Rhode Island School of Design and Trinity Repertory Theatre to National University of Singapore, University of Capetown, and University of Porto. Partnerships & Exchanges Links Exchange Scholar Program Brown participates in an Exchange Scholar Program that enables advanced graduate students to study for one or two semesters in the graduate school of participating institutions. CUHK Teaching and Research Opportunities A PhD Student Exchange Program between Brown University and The Chinese University of Hong Kong offers advanced doctoral students opportunities for short-term research visits at the partner university. Neuroscience-NIH Program An opportunity for collaborative research in neuroscience with scientists at the National Institutes of Health. Mathematics-TFA Partnership The Department of Mathematics offers a special deferment option for Teach for America applicants. International Partnerships Brown has various international partnerships in a number of different countries. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants