Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy The Constitution is a source of both stability and conflict in American society. Understanding the myriad ways it is interpreted, debated, and implemented is essential for lawyers, who are entrusted to safeguard democratic institutions, civil rights, and the application of justice. How does the U.S. Constitution evolve to respond to the realities of modern society while respecting legal precedents and honoring the framers’ intent? Columbia Law School is home to an ideologically diverse group of influential constitutional scholars. They lead national conversations about the role and legitimacy of the administrative state; the overlapping and conflicting authority among federal, state, and local governments; and public policy solutions for issues such as antitrust violations, privacy and cybersecurity, religious freedom, and LGBTQ+ rights. Under the guidance of these faculty members, students develop a thorough understanding of constitutional history and theory, the development and implementation of legislation and regulation, the role of the judiciary as the guardian of rights under the Constitution and civil rights acts, and comparative perspectives on international constitutional frameworks. Why Columbia? Study the legislative process, statutory interpretation, and the structure and constitutional position of administrative agencies. Learn from some two dozen professors who have clerked on the U.S. Supreme Court. Gain hands-on experience in clinics and externships with federal judges and prosecutors. Collaborate with professors and research centers on legal scholarship, advocacy efforts, and amicus briefs that influence the opinions of appeals court judges, including Supreme Court justices. Engage in discussions and debates convened by the Law School’s Center for Constitutional Governance. Participate in programs at Columbia University’s Knight First Amendment Institute whose mission is to defend the freedoms of speech and the press in the digital age through strategic litigation, research, and public education. Law Facts: Columbia Law alumni who have defended and interpreted the Constitution as public servants in the upper echelons of government include Ruth Bader Ginsburg ’59, U.S. Supreme Court justice; Eric H. Holder Jr. ’76, attorney general of the United States; Donald B. Verrilli Jr. ’83, solicitor general of the United States; and Jeh Johnson ’82, secretary of Homeland Security. Related Links Explore Courses Find Judicial Clerkships Related Faculty All Faculty Kate Andrias Professor of Law Mark Barenberg Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Vincent Blasi Corliss Lamont Professor of Civil Liberties Philip C. Bobbitt Herbert Wechsler Professor of Federal Jurisprudence Lee C. Bollinger President, Columbia University; Seth Low Professor of the University Richard Briffault Joseph P. Chamberlain Professor of Legislation Jessica Bulman-Pozen Betts Professor of Law Michael W. Doyle University Professor Harold S. Edgar Julius Silver Professor Emeritus of Law, Science and Technology Elizabeth F. Emens Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Jeffrey A. Fagan Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Kellen R. Funk Associate Professor of Law Maeve Glass Associate Professor of Law Suzanne Goldberg Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law Jeffrey N. Gordon Richard Paul Richman Professor of Law Michael Graetz Columbia Alumni Professor Emeritus of Tax Law Kent Greenawalt University Professor Jamal Greene Dwight Professor of Law Philip Hamburger Maurice & Hilda Friedman Professor of Law Olatunde C. Johnson Jerome B. Sherman Professor of Law Kathryn Judge Harvey J. Goldschmid Professor of Law Jeremy Kessler Professor of Law Lina Khan Associate Professor of Law James S. Liebman Simon H. Rifkind Professor of Law Thomas W. Merrill Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law Gillian Metzger Harlan Fiske Stone Professor of Constitutional Law Henry P. Monaghan Professor of Law Kerrel Murray Associate Professor of Law Lynnise E. Pantin Pritzker Pucker Family Clinical Professor of Transactional Law Christina D. Ponsa-Kraus George Welwood Murray Professor of Legal History David Pozen Vice Dean for Intellectual Life and Charles Keller Beekman Professor of Law Jedediah S. Purdy William S. Beinecke Professor of Law Charles F. Sabel Maurice T. Moore Professor of Law Carol Sanger Barbara Aronstein Black Professor of Law Colleen F. Shanahan Clinical Professor of Law William H. Simon Arthur Levitt Professor of Law Emeritus Peter L. Strauss Betts Professor Emeritus of Law Matthew C. Waxman Liviu Librescu Professor of Law Kendall Thomas Nash Professor of Law Timothy Wu Julius Silver Professor of Law, Science and Technology All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Center for Constitutional Governance The Center for Constitutional Governance (CCG) is a nonpartisan legal and policy organization devoted to the study of constitutional structure and authority. CCG invites academics, students, government officials, practitioners, and community members to engage with major constitutional and governance issues of the day, from health care to civil rights, immigration, financial regulation, and national security. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity The Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity (CAPI) improves the capacity of public offices and practitioners to deter, identify, and combat corruption at the municipal level of government. CAPI supports a vibrant community of leaders in the public integrity field, develops tools and resources to help governments and practitioners fight corruption, and promotes research and scholarship on important public integrity issues. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Center for Public Research and Leadership The Center for Public Research and Leadership (CPRL) aims to revitalize public education while filling substantial gaps in professional education. CPRL’s rigorous coursework, skills training, and research and consulting projects prepare graduate students in law, business, and public policy for careers in the education sector. With an eye toward improving outcomes for all children, CPRL utilizes the latest techniques in education, such as organizational design, democratic accountability, team-based problem-solving skills, and socio-emotional learning. Students can also participate in a semster-long intensive around transformational change in public education by enrolling in the Public Education Policy Lab-Seminar and Skills courses. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights All Centers and Programs Related Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Clinic Community Advocacy Lab Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Criminal Justice Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Constitutional and Affirmative Litigation Externships Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Externship Externship on the Federal Government: Semester in Washington, D.C. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Externship Judicial Externships Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals American Civil Liberties Union American Constitution Society Columbia Health Law Association Columbia Law School Democrats Columbia Law Students for Disability Rights Education Law and Policy Society The Federalist Society National Lawyers Guild National Security Law Society Public Interest Law Foundation Student Public Interest Network Columbia Law Review Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Law School News News Columbia Law Goes to Washington Alumni, faculty, and scholars take on pivotal positions in the Biden administration. In The Press Breaking Down the Historical Context of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson’s Supreme Court Nomination Olatunde C. Johnson | NBC News In The Press Recapping the Start of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson’s Confirmation Hearing Olatunde C. Johnson | Events Video Rep. Ro Khanna of California Addresses, ‘How Can We Repair Our Democracy?’ Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.