By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories A Model Student A Model Student Graduating senior attributes her success to professors who ‘go the extra mile.’ Senior Ifetayo Dudley ’22 is a communication and rhetorical studies major in the College of Visual and Performing Arts who also is enrolled in the Fashion and Beauty Communications Milestone program. “All of us are consumers or creators. Sometimes we’re both,” says Syracuse University senior Ifetayo Dudley ’22, regarding the growing influence of social media. “Thanks to platforms like TikTok, Instagram and YouTube, almost anyone can control their own brand while communicating directly with their audiences. This creates potential for collaboration with traditional media, like TV, radio and print.” An aspiring journalist and creative strategist, Dudley hopes to ply her skills at a large ad agency or in a marketing department, like Disney’s or Paramount’s. She also has her eyes on Refinery29, a leading feminist media and entertainment company. “I’m committed to celebrating the beauty, strength and power of Black people,” continues the Harlem-born journalist and fashion model, who majors in communication and rhetorical studies (CRS) in the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA). “I think we’re going to see more mainstream media outlets embrace community-generated content, with stars and celebrities playing bigger roles as ‘influencers.’” A keen interest in haute couture inspired Dudley to enroll in the Fashion and Beauty Communications Milestone, a sequence of courses for students in VPA and the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications. The program complements her various roles at Renegade, Syracuse’s first-and-only student-run, Black general interest magazine. In addition to the campus Fashion and Design Society and WAER radio, she has worked for The Daily Orange, Femme Noir Magazine and the Women’s Empowerment Project. The CRS department is highly interdisciplinary, teaching communication skills that are useful across a range of industries, including the media, public relations and marketing. —Ifetayo Dudley ’22 “I’ve grown a lot in the past four years because I’ve opened myself up to new people and experiences,” says Dudley, a Harlem-born journalist and fashion model. We recently caught up with Dudley to talk about Syracuse’s impact on her academic and professional development. What led you to Syracuse University? I went to Promise Academy I, a high school created in partnership with the Harlem Children’s Zone. Although I did well in STEM, I was really into journalism, and my interest in it grew stronger through various college programs in New York City and Washington, D.C. I eventually had to choose between Syracuse and a historically Black university in Virginia. Since I used to run track and had brothers who played basketball, I knew all about Syracuse Athletics. But I was more interested in our academic reputation, especially in journalism and marketing. Syracuse made me an offer I couldn’t refuse. When did VPA come into the picture? My passion for writing and fashion led me to VPA my sophomore year. The CRS department is highly interdisciplinary, teaching communication skills that are useful across a range of industries, including the media, public relations and marketing. CRS also deals with various modes of persuasion in speech and writing. I now have multiple career options instead of just one. A friend tipped me off about Newhouse’s milestone program, which I started the second semester of my first year. It’s been incredible. Who are some of your favorite professors? I have several, but at the top of the list is Newhouse professor Harriet Brown, who co-directs the milestone program. One of her courses looks at recurring themes in the fashion industry—racism, tokenism, underrepresentation. She’s pushed me to think more broadly about these issues as well as my own standards of beauty and self-worth. I’ve also taken classes with Erin Reimel ’16, an editor at ELLE magazine who teaches fashion and beauty journalism, and Joanna Nikas, a fashion and style editor at The New York Times who is skilled in the art of story pitching. They’ve taught me that writing and pitching are personal experiences, that I’m ultimately selling myself. An aspiring journalist and creative strategist, Dudley hopes to work for a media and entertainment company. What’s an important lesson you’ve learned? If you want to fix something, you need to understand it. That’s why I’m grateful to Syracuse for teaching me about the fashion industry firsthand. I’ve done everything from writing for student-run magazines like Renegade and Femme Noire—Syracuse’s only publication by and for women of color—to participating in various runway shows. Racism has been at the heart of the fashion industry since the beginning. It’s systemic, affecting people who make clothes as well as those who model them. I’m using my education to help make a difference. How do we foster a culture of change? If we’re going to combat inequality and discrimination, we need to talk to, inspire and educate one another. Change doesn’t happen in a vacuum. Role models are also part of the process. I’m inspired by people like VH1’s Gia Peppers; track star Allyson Felix; and Oladotun Idowu ’14, a Newhouse grad who has founded Sisters in Media, which supports minority women in the media and entertainment. They’re the kind of people I want to surround myself with. What will you miss most about Syracuse? I’ve made a lot of friends and memories here, but I’ll never forget participating in my first African Student Union fashion show. Although “Ifetayo” is Yoruba for “love conquers all,” I’m part-Bahamian and part-Trinidadian. That’s why organizations like ASU appeal to me. What lesson would you share with incoming students? Grades are important, but they’re not everything. I’ve grown a lot in the past four years because I’ve opened myself up to new people and experiences. If there’s one thing that my professors have in common, it’s their willingness to go the extra mile for me. I know that they have my back and are invested in my success. —Ifetayo Dudley ’22 Teachable moments aren’t limited to the classroom. They happen anywhere, anytime—in the hallway, over coffee, at an internship. If there’s one thing that my professors have in common, it’s their willingness to go the extra mile for me. I know that they have my back and are invested in my success. Rob Enslin This story was published on May 4, 2022. Also of Interest Link College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) Link Home to the visual and performing arts at Syracuse, VPA supports the creative process and professional development. The College is divided into seven areas: the School of Art; the Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies; the School of Design; the Department of Drama; the Rose, Jules R. and Stanford S. Setnor School of Music; the Department of Film and Media Arts; and the Department of Creative Arts Therapy. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Link Long recognized as one of the elite schools of mass communication, Newhouse embraces virtually every known form of information dissemination. Programs are rooted in the liberal arts while you learn how to manage and produce for the mass media and other areas of public communications. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy