Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Corporate and Foundation Relations Partnerships Initiatives Resources News About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Completion Scholarships Scholarships make a profound impact on a student’s life, and often can be the difference in a student being able to complete their studies. African American Male Academy Through the African American Male Academy, the UofM will foster a culture of inclusive excellence for African American male students, with an end goal of college completion. Economic Impact The UofM contributes more than $1 billion in economic activity to our city, state and regional economies. STEM Building The new STEM Research and Classroom Building will enable our students to collaborate to produce ground-breaking research and innovations while building tomorrow’s STEM workforce. PreviousNext Take Action Give Now Contact Us Learn About Join Us Follow Us LinkedIn Home Corporate and Foundation Relations Let’s do great things TOGETHER! The future of the University of Memphis is tied to the future of the Mid-South. What’s good for one is equally beneficial to the other. It’s a natural co-existence that goes well beyond civic pride and institutional stability. At the core of this interdependence are people — our students, bursting with untapped potential and you, the leaders of business and industry, looking to capitalize on the momentum that’s sweeping through our region. That’s why your involvement in the University of Memphis is so important. A healthy, thriving university not only feeds the engine of the local economy, but it also creates an opportunity for those willing to invest in themselves with effort and determination. Get to know our students and programs and you’ll uncover your own set of opportunities. Partnerships Partnerships Imagine what we can do together Learn More Initiatives Initiatives Design educational experiences for YOUR workforce. Learn More Resources Resources Campus community Fund and Toolkit Learn More News News Read about the latest news about the UofM Learn More Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.