COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Types of applied learning Section Menu Applied Learning Home Types of Applied Learning Opportunities for Employers Success Stories Career Development Center Employment at WSU Workforce, Professional and Community Education When it comes to bridging the gap between classroom learning and real-world experience, nobody offers more opportunities than Wichita State. Thanks to our location in Kansas' largest city, Shockers in every major can gain the skills, connections and confidence needed for career success—before graduation—with employers in virtually every industry. Student employment Shockers have access to more applied learning opportunities than you'll ever find in the typical college town. Applied Learning Placements are paid, WSU-facilitiated jobs with local industry partners that build skills that go beyond classroom learning. Co-ops are paid, multi-semester jobs, related to your major, where you earn academic credit. Internships are paid or unpaid work experience in professional settings, with academic credit and zero-credit options, completed full time or part time. Other types of applied learning Apply Now Practicum and clinical placements Practical experience in professional settings that is tied to specific degree programs (such as nursing or social work) and required for graduation. Service learning and volunteering Classroom learning combined with public service that benefits your educational goals while also meeting community needs. Create your own project or work with local public agencies and nonprofits. Student research Investigation and experimentation within your academic area. Student research at WSU may be conducted on or off campus, independently or in collaboration with faculty, peers and industry professionals. Mentorships Connecting with a professional in your future area of employment. Mentors provide expertise, guidance and industry contacts—helping you discover and achieve your dream career. Student outcomes Where can a Wichita State education take you? Just ask our current students and recent grads who've taken advantage of our unmatched opportunities to discover their dream careers, conduct groundbreaking research and, ultimately, make a positive impact on their futures—and the world. Read more Ready to get started? Apply Now Request Info Visit us Applied learning impact More Applied Learning Fast Facts 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©