Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students "Among the many things that make graduate study at SEAS uniquely rewarding, two stand out: our world-class faculty; and the fact that SEAS is part of the larger Harvard community. Our students have limitless opportunities for fruitful collaboration with colleagues from preeminent programs in the sciences, and world-class schools of medicine, business, law, government, design, and public health." -Dean Frank Doyle John A. Paulson Dean, Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences; John A. & Elizabeth S. Armstrong Professor of Engineering & Applied Sciences We provide the raw materials to foster future leaders who connect ideas in unexpected ways, integrate technical innovations into everyday life, and apply knowledge and discoveries to improve society and further our understanding of the world. Want to learn more? Check out our information sessions here. Our programs How to apply to our graduate programs Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy