COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Physician Assistant, Master's Master'sPhysician Assistant All Programs College of Health Professions Physician Assistant Wichita State’s fully accredited Master of Physician Assistant (MPA) program prepares you to practice medicine in collaboration with a licensed physician in just 26 months. The program is the only one of its kind in Kansas and offers unmatched opportunities for applied learning in the state’s health care hub—while opening doors to high-demand, high-paying careers in a variety of medical settings. Learn how Physician Assistant is the right fit for you. Request Info How to Apply to the Program Apply to WSU Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the program, students must meet the following requirements: Hold a bachelor’s degree, or demonstrate intent to complete a bachelor’s degree, from a regionally accredited institution by the spring semester prior to entering the PA program Have a minimum overall GPA and science GPA of 3.00 Complete all prerequisite science courses by the time of application For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program PA students participate in Medical Mission at Home Each year, Physician Assistant students get hands-on experience providing a day of free health care to patients with little or no health insurance. It's all part of the Medical Mission at Home community event. Students help community members in need by donating their time to provide medical services. They also provide much-needed connections for continued follow-up care. Curriculum This seven semester program lasts 26 months and is divided in two parts: 53 semester hours of coursework and 40 semester hours of research and clinical rotations in a variety of settings including rural, urban and underserved communities. Graduates are eligible to take the National Commission on the Certification of Physician Assistants exam, which is required for a physician assistant to practice in all states. View the curriculum Careers A physician assistant degree from Wichita State will help you gain the knowledge and practical experience needed to build your dream career in this fast-growing, high-paying medical field. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Pre-Medicine 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©