Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Maps and directions About SMU / Maps and directions / Parking at SMU Parking at SMU For the latest parking maps, rules, and resources, please visit SMU's Parking & ID Card Services website. General Parking Information Use the Moody Parking Center at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. The garage is located at 3063 SMU Blvd., less than half a mile from U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway). All-day parking is $10, payable by credit card. Visitors may also use the Binkley Parking Center at the corner of Binkley Avenue and Airline Road. The visitor entrance is on Binkley Avenue, and visitors may park anywhere on Level 2 or above. Payment is made before exiting the garage; the all-day parking is $10, payable by credit card. Metered parking is available as indicated on the campus map. Meters allow for a maximum of three hours at 1.50 an hour coin or 1.85 an hour using ParkMobile. For Football Games Season ticket holders have assigned parking in color-coded areas that can be accessed best from the SMU Boulevard campus entrance. Other ticket holders should use the DART Mockingbird Station, just east of U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway), or its adjoining parking lots east of Central Expressway, and take the shuttle to the stadium. For Athletic Events Other Than Football Use the Moody Parking Center at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. The garage is located at 3063 SMU Blvd., less than half a mile from U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway). For Events at Meadows Museum, Meadows School of the Arts or Perkins School of Theology Use the Meadows Parking Center, located at 5900 Bishop Boulevard. From the Bishop Boulevard campus entrance off Mockingbird Lane, proceed north 300 feet to Schlegel Street. Turn right to access the parking garage. Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"