Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Partners Frank A. Burtner award winner goes above and beyond for students Every Clemson University student who wins a major fellowship or award, such as a Fulbright, Goldwater or even the Rhodes, has worked with – and learned from – Robyn Curtis. Curtis, the director of the Office of Major Fellowships on […] The post Frank A. Burtner award winner goes above and beyond for students appeared first on Clemson News. Read More » Land-Grant Press publications provide vital knowledge from Clemson Cooperative Extension program areas Written by Clemson Cooperative Extension agents and specialists and University scientists primarily from the CAFLS, Land-Grant Press publications are research-based, peer-reviewed scholarly work. The post Land-Grant Press publications provide vital knowledge from Clemson Cooperative Extension program areas appeared first on Clemson News. Read More » $2 million gift endows Clemson University Wood Utilization + Design Institute directorship Micky and Amy Scott have gifted $2 million to the Clemson University Wood Utilization + Design Institute to endow the institute’s directorship. The Patricia “Pat” Layton Endowed Directorship is named in honor of founding director Patricia Layton and comes as […] The post $2 million gift endows Clemson University Wood Utilization + Design Institute directorship appeared first on Clemson News. Read More » Roots of native grasses may hold key to growing crops in drier climates Drought can cause issues for grain crops and three scientists are working to get to the root of the problem. The scientists believe crops have a lesson or two to learn from their weedy relatives when it comes to growing in drier soils. The trick is to harbor beneficial microorganisms on and around the roots to enhance the ability of plants to withstand harsher environments. The post Roots of native grasses may hold key to growing crops in drier climates appeared first on Clemson News. Read More » In the News Clemson News Resources General Information Centers and Institutes CU Annual Report CU Foundations Quick Facts About Clemson University Experts Visitor's Information Strategic Partners Cooperative Education Program Office of Governmental Affairs CURF — Clemson University Research Foundation Athletics Alumni Association Corporate and Foundation Relations Office of Sponsored Programs Executive Education Clemson University's Center for Corporate Learning Master of Business Administration Master of Engineering Historic Preservation Energy Programs Capital Project Management International Family and Community Studies Youth Development Leadership Leadership Certificate Program Construction Science Management Seminars, Lectures and Other Events Innovation Campuses Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research Automotive Engineering Clemson University Restoration Institute Clemson University Advanced Materials Center Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Center Educate Workforce Explore Public/Private Partnerships Invest in Academic Programs License Technology Recruit Students Sponsor Research more resources Contact Us Office of Corporate Partnerships & Strategic Initiatives 1201 Main Street, Suite 1950 Columbia, South Carolina 29201 803-737-0696 ellenbe@clemson.edu Corporate and Foundation Relations 110 Daniel Drive Clemson, South Carolina 29631 864-918-2930 eabarr@clemson.edu Office of Governmental Affairs 1201 Main Street, Suite 1950 Columbia, South Carolina 29201 803-737-0696 mscothr@clemson.edu Technology Transfer 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, South Carolina 29631 864-656-0797 curf@clemson.edu Office of Sponsored Programs 864-656-1661 slischw@clemson.edu Innovation Campuses The Clemson innovation campuses are underpinned by coordinated programs and provide an environment where Clemson's faculty, staff and graduate students can interact with researchers from our private-industry partners. Partner Spotlight Clemson University and Greenwood Genetic Center scientists are collaborating on autism and cancer research as part of their new partnership. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram