Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Inaugural director of Jones Center says philanthropy paved the... May 2, 2022 In July 2020, University of Cincinnati alumnus Bill Morelli, A&S ’74, JD ’78, gave $200,000 to support a center at the law school focused on race, gender, and social justice. The Toast celebrates Business Fellows graduates, award winners April 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Carl H. Lindner College of Business and its supporters recognized the impressive accomplishments of the Business Fellows during The Toast last week at the Graduate Cincinnati. Young, gifted and Black April 4, 2022 A Seat at the Table content series looks to explore the experiences and identities of diverse student populations at UC while shedding light on support, resources and opportunities available at the university. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Inaugural director of Jones Center says philanthropy paved the... May 2, 2022 In July 2020, University of Cincinnati alumnus Bill Morelli, A&S ’74, JD ’78, gave $200,000 to support a center at the law school focused on race, gender, and social justice. The Toast celebrates Business Fellows graduates, award winners April 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Carl H. Lindner College of Business and its supporters recognized the impressive accomplishments of the Business Fellows during The Toast last week at the Graduate Cincinnati. Young, gifted and Black April 4, 2022 A Seat at the Table content series looks to explore the experiences and identities of diverse student populations at UC while shedding light on support, resources and opportunities available at the university. UC employee organization hosts daylong Black Male Summit March 14, 2022 Event: April 2, 2022 9:00 AM UC’s Black Male Staff Employee Resource Group hosts an immersive daylong Black Male Summit set for Saturday, April 2, 2022. Empowerment Day ignites courage, embraces vulnerability March 14, 2022 Hosted by Lindner Women in Business, Empowerment Day is an annual leadership conference that brings more than 20 speakers to campus to advise, mentor and interact with hundreds of attendees made up of UC students — whether they are majoring in business or a different discipline — and high school seniors who have either committed to UC or are considering attending UC. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Camryn Morrow January 28, 2022 Camryn Morrow is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country Celebrating greatness, resilience amid adversity January 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati celebrates Black History Month 2022 with music, film and historical discussions that pay homage to Black Americans who have shown "uthabiti" — resilience in Swahili — and those who continue to conquer their dreams during a global pandemic. UC takes center stage in Amazon Prime series January 19, 2022 Filmed in July 2021, UC’s episode is a crash-course in being a Bearcat, starring a few of the university’s best and brightest students and alumni. Some are lifelong Cincinnatians; others are from across the globe. But they’re all excited to show viewers why they've called UC home: From its beautiful spaces and state-of-the-art facilities to co-op and campus life. When will freedom ring? January 12, 2022 Event: January 13, 2022 11:00 AM UC's African American Cultural & Resource Center presents Martin Luther King Jr. Day virtual celebrations and thoughtful discussions on current issues, hope and future promise on Jan. 13 and 18. Virtual events includes panel discussions by Cincinnati Vice Mayor Jan-Michele Lemon Kearney, U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, UC students, staff and other local community activists. College of Nursing wins prestigious award for its diversity,... January 12, 2022 College of Nursing honored with 2021 Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) award from INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine President Pinto's 2021 year-in-review message December 17, 2021 University of Cincinnati President Neville G. Pinto looks back on a historic year that brought students, faculty, staff and the community back together like never before. UC, CPS partner for first Marian Spencer Scholarship awards November 23, 2021 The University of Cincinnati continues its dedicated partnership with Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) and commitment to underrepresented students with the launch of the Marian Spencer Scholars Program for high-achieving CPS students. Lindner College of Business hosts African American Chamber of... November 4, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Carl H. Lindner College of Business hosted the Greater Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky African American Chamber of Commerce (AACC) in the Kautz Attic in Lindner Hall for the chamber’s monthly Exchange event in late October. Retirement of UC Director of Public Safety James Whalen October 8, 2021 James Whalen will retire as University of Cincinnati's director of public safety and chief of police in early 2022. UC President Neville Pinto announces national search. Bearcat, Generation NOW founder uses professional credentials... October 5, 2021 The highlight of student success in professional development through the Office of Professional Development and Career Education. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top