Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News News May 26 2022 Baylor University Honors Professor Jeremy Counseller as Outstanding Faculty for 2021-2022 Baylor University has selected Professor of Law Jeremy Counseller to receive the 2021-2022 Outstanding Faculty Award for Teaching (Tenured). May 24 2022 3L Lizzie Allen Earns Highly Competitive Equal Justice Works Fellowship Baylor Law 3L Lizzie Allen was recently selected to receive a highly selective Equal Justice Works Fellowship. She will provide direct representation and advocacy for students with disabilities at risk of, and currently navigating, the juvenile justice system. May 19 2022 16 of the Nation's Best Student Advocates to Compete for the Title of 'Top Gun' in June Student advocates who will compete in Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition, the most challenging mock trial competition in the country, have been named. The invitation-only tournament pits the best advocates from 16 trial advocacy schools against one another in a head-to-head, winner-take-all contest June 1-5 at Baylor Law. May 3 2022 Baylor Law Announces Law Schools Participating in Top Gun XIII Law students from the best trial advocacy programs in the country will travel to Waco June 1-5 to take part in Baylor Law’s thirteenth annual National Top Gun Mock Trial Competition. The invitation-only, winner-takes-all contest is the nation's most prestigious and intense mock trial competition. May 2 2022 Baylor Law Celebrates Exceeding Its Campaign Goal Baylor Law celebrates its achievement of exceeding its $50M Give Light fundraising goal through the generosity of Baylor Law alumni and friends. Baylor Law’s Give Light priorities included opportunities which expand areas of existing excellence and pursue new areas of strategic importance with the support of growing endowment resources. Apr 26 2022 Baylor Law Offers Free Wills for First Responders For the fifth straight year, Baylor Law’s Legal Clinics will honor the hard work, dedication, and sacrifice of McLennan County’s law enforcement, firefighters, and emergency medical services. During May, Baylor Law’s Estate Planning Clinic will offer free wills and simple estate planning to police, firefighters, EMTs, and their spouses living or working in McLennan County. Apr 5 2022 Baylor Law Honors Outstanding Students at the 2022 John William and Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series On Thursday, March 31, 2022, Baylor Law held its annual awards ceremony to honor outstanding student accomplishments during the past year. The John William and Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series celebrates those Baylor Law students who excel both in and out of the classroom. Baylor Law honored students for excellence in academics, advocacy, work on the Baylor Law Review, and pro bono and public service at the ceremony. Mar 29 2022 Professor Josh Borderud (J.D. ‘09) honored by the American Inns of Court at the United States Supreme Court Baylor Law faculty member and Waco City Councilman Joshua G. Borderud (J.D.’ 09) received the 2020 American Inns of Court Sandra Day O’Connor Award for Professional Service at the Supreme Court of the United States in Washington, D.C. on Saturday, March 26th, 2022. The American Inns of Court presents the Sandra Day O’Connor Award to honor a member in the first ten years of practice for excellence in public interest or pro bono activities. Mar 22 2022 Lauren Leveno and Jamie Mills Win Baylor Law's 2022 Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Baylor Law’s annual Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition ended on Monday, March 21, with students Lauren Leveno and Jamie Mills taking the top spots. Eighty-four teams participated in this challenging competition, making it one of the largest tournaments ever held at Baylor Law. Mar 11 2022 Baylor Lawyer Ben Selman (JD ’73) To Be Honored by Texas Bar Foundation The Texas Bar Foundation has selected Baylor Lawyer and Adjunct Professor of Law Ben Selman (JD ’73) as the 2022 recipient of the Lola Wright Foundation Award for outstanding public service and the promotion of legal ethics in Texas. Mar 10 2022 Baylor Lawyer Hon. T. John Ward, JD ‘67 to be Honored by Texas Bar Foundation Judge T. John Ward, JD ‘67, the United States District Court Judge for the Eastern District of Texas who retired from the bench in 2011, will be honored as a recipient of the Texas Bar Foundation’s Outstanding 50 Year Lawyer Award. Mar 8 2022 Baylor Lawyer Shannon Sedgwick Davis (JD ’00) Honored As the 2022 International Citizen of the Year by the World Affairs Council of San Antonio Baylor Law congratulates Shannon Sedgwick Davis (JD ’00) on her selection as the 2022 International Citizen of the Year by the World Affairs Council of San Antonio. Sedgwick Davis was honored at a celebration on March 2 at the Red Berry Estate in San Antonio. Mar 2 2022 Andrew Boone Takes Top Spot in Sixth Annual Ultimate Writer Competition at Baylor Law Andrew Boone has won first place in Baylor Law’s annual The Ultimate Writer legal writing competition, drafting the best legal document out of several competitors. For his efforts, he was awarded an $8,000 cash prize thanks to the generous underwriting of the Charles and Lisa Frazier Endowed Fund for Excellence in Writing and the law firm of Durham, Pittard & Spalding LLP. Feb 28 2022 Baylor Lawyer, Lewis R. Sifford (JD ’72) Confirmed as National President of the American Board of Trial Advocates Baylor Law congratulates Lewis R. Sifford (JD ’72) on his selection as the 2022 President of the American Board of Trial Advocates (ABOTA). Sifford was unanimously confirmed at the organization’s National Committee Meeting on January 3. Feb 1 2022 Baylor Law Team Takes First Place at the 2022 Hunton Andrews Kurth Moot Court National Invitational Championship Students Lexie Ammons, Michael Tagliabue, and brief writer Sarah Megan Erb took top honors in the field of the top sixteen advocacy programs in the nation at the 2022 Hunton Andrews Kurth Moot Court National Invitational Championship hosted by the University of Houston Law Center. Jan 28 2022 First Wellness-Focused Program of 2022 A Success More than 100 Baylor Law students recently attended a special presentation by Adjunct Professor of Law Walt Shelton titled “Daily and Periodic Practices to Enhance your Life Quality: Staying Focused and Keeping Balanced.” The virtual session on mindfulness and balance, along with a signed copy of Professor Shelton’s latest book were made possible thanks to a recent grant to the law school from the Texas Bar Foundation to implement comprehensive mental health and wellness offerings at the Law School. Jan 18 2022 ABA Regional Client Counseling Competition - Volunteers Needed Baylor Law has been selected to host one of the 2022 ABA National Client Counseling Regional Competitions via Zoom and invites alumni and lawyers within the legal community to participate as virtual judges. Jan 17 2022 Top Prizes in The Closer, Baylor Law's Elite National Transactional Law Competition, Won by Bess Fisher, University of Mississippi School of Law, and Zachery Hunter, The Ohio State University Moritz College of Law Bess Fisher of University of Mississippi School of Law and Zachery Hunter of The Ohio State University Moritz College of Law are this year's winners of The Closer, the nation's most challenging transactional law competition. Runners up in this year's challenging competition were James Keegan of University of San Diego School of Law and Megan Sugrue of University of Denver Sturm College of Law. Jan 12 2022 Kristine Bridges to Lead Baylor Law’s Career Development Office Kristine Bridges (JD ’03), current Director of Development for Baylor Law, will transition to become Baylor Law’s Assistant Dean of Career Services. She will take over the role previously held by now-Senior Assistant Dean Angela Cruseturner on January 18, 2022. Jan 10 2022 Baylor Law Hosts National Transactional Law Competition, The Closer, This Week Baylor Law's sixth annual transactional law competition, The Closer, one the nation's preeminent law competitions, gets underway this week. In this innovative and invitation-only competition, students from participating schools vie to win a total of $10,000 in top prizes and bragging rights as a top closer. Jan 6 2022 Baylor Law Mourns Passing of Beloved Professor David Guinn, ‘The Godfather’ Baylor Law School mourns the loss of Master Teacher David Guinn, the retired Lyndon L. Olson and William A. Olson Professor of Local Government and Constitutional Law. Lovingly referred to as "the Godfather," Professor Guinn earned his nickname for his long tenure at the law school, but also for the wide influence he had on state policy and generations of Baylor Lawyers. Dec 9 2021 Matthew Maupin is Baylor Law's Fall 2021 'Mad Dog' Champion Baylor Law student Matthew Maupin has been named the most recent Baylor Law 'Mad Dog,' after winning the Fall 2021 Mad Dog Mock Trial Competition. Fellow student Kristopher Ruiz was the finalist. A long-running tradition at Baylor Law, every Practice Court class competes in the Bob and Karen Wortham "Mad Dog" Practice Court Competition, a week-long contest that occurs at the beginning of the second quarter of the famed Practice Court program. Dec 6 2021 Baylor Law Hosts 10th Successful Criminal Law Boot Camp The tenth Criminal Law Boot Camp, and third of 2021, offered an intense introduction to Texas state criminal practice taught by highly experienced prosecutors and defense lawyers. Over a period of three days students were exposed to real-world criminal case theories and preparation skills that are essential for successful criminal prosecution and defense. The final Boot Camp of 2021 began on Friday, December 3, and ran through Sunday, December 5. Dec 2 2021 Baylor Lawyer Brit Featherston Sworn in as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas On Tuesday, November 16, Baylor Lawyer Brit Featherston (JD ’92) was sworn in as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas. Featherston was appointed by U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland and took the oath of office from fellow Baylor Lawyer, Chief District Judge Rodney Gilstrap (JD ’81). Nov 29 2021 A New Beginning - Baylor Law Participates in ‘Moana’-Themed Adoption Day On Friday, November 19th, 14 new families were legally formed and 20 former foster children were finally adopted into their new families. For the fourteenth straight year, Baylor Law faculty, staff, and students joined with members of the McLennan County Department of Families and Child Protective Services and the judiciary to celebrate McLennan County’s Adoption Day. Are you looking for more News? Archives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School