Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Procurement Travel OURClemson - Travel and expense Update, 5/11/2022 Concur Travel and Expense Knowledge Transfer Website - For those in our Pilot (Finance & Operations and Development) beginning June 1, 2022 or those who want to take a look around before we go live in Fall 2022, check out our new site with training docs, guides and FAQs. Travel - Related Travel Guidance Employee Travel Policy and my.Clemson Travel Reimbursement Guidelines Effective 1/1/2015 (rev. 2/16/2022) Employees will be reimbursed for travel expenditures in compliance with the University travel guidelines as governed by State and Federal travel regulations. Adequate documentation must exist to allow for the verification of expenditures. This policy is applicable to all travel, regardless of the source of funds used for reimbursement. Reimbursement will take place after a trip has been completed. Employees are reminded to assess the risk of incurring any personal expenses based on the risk of travel potentially being canceled prior to incurring any personal costs. All travel vouchers submitted for reimbursement are required to have the signature of the traveler certifying the amounts are true and correct and conform to State, Federal, and University laws, rules, and regulations. All signatures must be original or in an approved electronic format (faxed or electronic mail). No stamped signatures will be accepted. An exception to the requirements above is that the submission of domestic travel expenses through the University's my.clemson Online Travel Reimbursement application shall constitute a true signature by the traveler and their supervisor or designee based on the authentication process of the application itself. The reimbursement must be approved by the employee's supervisor or supervisor's designee. The designee cannot be a direct subordinate of the traveler. The supervisor or designee's approval is asserting that they are aware of the employee's travel and the expenditures appear reasonable. Travel outside the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, or Puerto Rico meets the definition of International travel and requires approval prior to departure. International travel funded from sponsored program activities must be approved in advance by the Grants and Contracts Administration. The traveler must complete the International Travel Request Form, Export Control Form and obtain all required signatures before incurring any travel expenses or traveling. Due to export controls, the International Travel Request Form must be completed if traveling to Canada, even though Canada is considered Out of State Travel. Further, individuals are solely responsible for adhering to any University, federal, state or foreign government screening, quarantine, and related restrictions that may apply to their travel. Under Clemson's Human Resources Discipline Policy, any employee who falsifies records or documents or willfully violates written rules, regulations or policies can be suspended or terminated from their employment with Clemson University. All Policies and Procedures are in compliance with the State of South Carolina Appropriations Act, Section 117 General Provisions. This policy does not apply to reimbursement of travel for non-Clemson employees. Those payments are to be treated as procurement of services according to Procurement policies. Definitions Electronic Approval — approval of a voucher/reimbursement request or of other documentation may be done electronically with a fax/scanned copy of a signed document or via an email from the approver directly from their Clemson email address. Travel — as described in this policy, is travel more than 10 miles from an employee’s primary office at the University for the purpose of conducting the business of the University, attending professional meetings, special demonstration meetings, and other related meetings. Expenses related to the cost of relocating/moving are not classified as travel per this policy. Primary Office — the location of an employee’s office. In the case where an employee works out of more than one office on different campuses/University locations, the employee and their supervisor will agree in writing on a primary office from which travel reimbursement may be allowed if pre-approved by the supervisor. Based on the work schedule, the Primary Office may change day-to-day or week-to-week, again, as agreed upon in writing with the supervisor. Reasonable Expense — An expense that is ordinary and reflects a prudent decision to incur the expense on behalf of University business. Not extreme or excessive. Short-term rental or “home-sharing” — a residential property that is rented to a visitor for fewer than 30 days through a centralized online platform whereby the rental is advertised and rental payments are securely processed. Examples include but not limited to Airbnb, VRBO, Roomorama, HomeAway, et al Transportation network company or “ridesharing” — an organization, including but not limited to, a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, sole proprietor, or any other entity, operating in or out of the United States that provides prearranged transportation services for compensation using an online-enabled or mobile application or platform to connect passengers with drivers using a personal vehicle. Simply, Ridesharing is a service that arranges one-time shared rides on very short notice, usually arranged through a smartphone app. Examples include but not limited to Uber, Lyft, Sidecar, et al University Online Travel Reimbursement — mobile/online domestic travel expense submittal my.clemson application for approval and reimbursement. This tool acts as a secure online system for submitting, approving, and storing travel reimbursements. When utilizing this tool, no paper forms or receipts are necessary. Travel Guidelines my.Clemson Travel Reimbursement my.Clemson Travel Quick Reference Guide Employee travel expenditures must be paid by the traveler from personal funds and reimbursed using a Travel Voucher upon return. Travel vouchers/reimbursement requests are the documents used to account for reimbursable faculty and staff travel costs. Travelers are expected to exercise discretion when making travel arrangements and expenditures. As an agent of State and Federal funds and private grant funds, each employee should use the following guidance when traveling: Avoid excess costs, circuitous routes, delays, or luxury accommodations unnecessary or unjustified in the performance of an assignment. Travel by commercial airlines must be in coach or economy class. Automobile transportation may be used when air and ground transportation cannot be arranged satisfactorily, or to reduce expenses when two or more University employees are traveling together. Transportation to or from points of arrival and departure should be the most economical method. Travel Status Reimbursement versus Business Meal Reimbursement Business Meal reimbursement procedures will be followed when an employee is traveling within 10 miles of their headquarters or overnight travel is not required. An employee must be in travel status to be eligible for reimbursement of meals. Meals reimbursed while in travel status should not be confused with business meal reimbursements. Refer to the Business Meals section of disbursement guidelines for guidance for more information. If an employee on non-overnight travel receives reimbursements for meals, this amount could be considered income and be reported on their W-2 tax form. For instance, meals on day trips are subject to tax withholding except when a business purpose for the meal can be documented. If you are claiming reimbursement for such business meals, documentation should include the name and affiliation of the person sharing the meal and the general nature of the business discussed. The Travel Log Form should be used for non-overnight meal reimbursements. Local Travel or Travel to Other Clemson Locations Travel may be authorized and mileage reimbursement or a rental car expense may be allowed between an employee’s primary office location and another Clemson location (i.e. Clemson campus and CU-ICAR) when pre-approved or authorized by the employee’s supervisor, in a manner of approval determined by the supervisor. If not pre-approved, mileage or other travel expenses may not be reimbursed. (see Means of Travel for specifics on reimbursements/allowable expenses) Meals While on official travel within and outside the State of South Carolina, employees will be reimbursed for meals based on rates in the table below. Meal per diem is only reimbursable when travel includes an overnight stay. Out-of-State Travel is defined as travel outside of South Carolina but within the continental US, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, or Puerto Rico. (Rates effective 7/1/2019) If you depart before: If you return after: In-State Out-of-State Breakfast 6:30 a.m. 11:00 a.m. $8 $10 Lunch 11:00 a.m. 1:30 p.m. $10 $15 Dinner 5:15 p.m. 8:30 p.m. $17 $25 Total $35 $50 When the daily limit for meals is exceeded due to the cost of an official banquet, the excess will be allowed provided a receipt and proper explanation for the banquet charge accompanies the travel voucher. If an employee on non-overnight travel receives reimbursements for meals, this amount could be considered income and be reported on their W-2 tax form. For instance, meals on day trips are subject to tax withholding except when a business purpose for the meal can be documented. If you are claiming reimbursement for such business meals, documentation should include the name and affiliation of the person sharing the meal and the general nature of the business discussed. The Travel Log Form should be used for non-overnight meal reimbursements. An employee must be in travel status as defined by State regulations (more than 10 miles from their official headquarters) to be eligible for reimbursement of meals. Meals reimbursed while in travel status should not be confused with business meal reimbursements. Refer to the Business Meals section of disbursement guidelines for guidance for business meal reimbursements. When an employee is in International travel status, they will adhere to the federal per diem rates or provide receipts of actual meal costs. Lodging Lodging arrangements and deposits are the responsibility of the traveler and will be reimbursed as part of the lodging expenses upon completion of the trip. Actual lodging expenses as reflected on the receipt will be reimbursed, however moderately priced accommodations should be selected when a choice is available. No reimbursement will be made for overnight lodging within 50 miles of the employee's official headquarters or residence. Expenses for shared lodging will only be reimbursed to one employee. If the room is shared with someone other than a University employee, only the single room rate will be reimbursable. All necessary and reasonable tips for baggage handling are reimbursable. Parking Fees related to parking at a hotel, NOT valet parking, are reimbursable with receipt. Other parking fees for parking meters and non-hotel related are reimbursable per Reimbursement Procedures and Receipt sections below. State Appropriations, which are primarily spent in Funds 10 and 18, when used for lodging, are subject to State Proviso limitations for lodging. Please consult your Business Officer with questions. Home Sharing Travelers may use such services, but a detailed receipt is still required for reimbursement, so travelers are encouraged to check that such receipts are available before booking through these services. Means of Travel Rental Cars Charges for automobile rental are allowed when it is more economical than alternative methods of transportation or is the only practical means of transportation. While traveling on University business originating from South Carolina, employees are required to use the University contract vendor for vehicle rentals unless the contract vendor is not available at the location where the employee desires to rent a vehicle. Documentation stating that neither of the contract vendors was available should be attached as supporting documentation to justify the use of another vendor. Refer to the Procurement Services How to Buy/Pay page for information on the rental car contract. University employees should be aware that the State contract provides for unlimited mileage, liability, and comprehensive and collision protection. If it is necessary to rent an automobile while in travel status outside the United States, it is recommended the collision damage waiver insurance be obtained. The charge and the applicable tax will be included on the automobile rental statement submitted with the request for reimbursement. Mileage between an employee's home and his/her place of employment is not subject to reimbursement. However, when an employee leaves on a business trip directly from his/her home and does not go by the employee's headquarters, the employee shall be eligible for reimbursement for actual mileage beginning at his/her residence. Personal Cars University employees may use their own automobile for official travel provided the University will not incur added expenses above that of other forms of transportation available (or if determined to be a reasonable alternative for other reasons by the travel approver for travel reimbursement). Reimbursement for personal automobiles is $.585 per mile. No reimbursement will be made for fines related to moving or non-moving violations. Air and Ground Transportation Transportation for individuals traveling alone should be by (air, rail, bus) whenever practical. The advantage of reduced round-trip rates must be taken when available. Travel must be by the most direct route possible. Individuals traveling by an indirect route must bear any additional expenses. EXCEPTION: When discount fares are available which result in savings to the University by extending a trip using personal time, the reimbursement will be limited to the lesser of the actual expenses incurred (subject to the limitations contained herein, such as meal allowances, mileage rates, etc.) or the amount that would be incurred for the business portion only. The calculations for the business portion of the trip must be made using the least expensive rates available. Travel by Airplane This is recommended when the cost of the employee's time is an important factor or where the travel time by other methods would increase the subsistence expense. Accommodations must be limited to tourist or economy class. Travelers are strongly encouraged to book well in advance of travel to secure the lowest fares. In addition, travelers are encouraged to select special or promotional flights that may require significant advance booking, use alternative airports, entail a connection, or feature departure and/or arrival times slightly different than originally specified by the traveler. Employees are encouraged to use the University preferred Travel Management Company (travel agency) for booking any travel where air travel is involved. When NOT using the Travel Management Company to book this travel, traveler is required to send a detailed trip itinerary to clemsontravel@clemson.edu prior to departure to allow Clemson to meet limited Duty of Care requirements in tracking where employees are in case of emergency. Fly America Act Travelers using Federal grant funds are required to fly on U.S. flag air carriers as stated in the Fly America Act. Contact your principal investigator or Grants & Contracts Administration for detailed Federal regulations. https://www.tvlon.com/resources/FlyAct.html Reasonable and actual add-on airline fees, within the fare class for which the traveler is authorized (coach or business class), are reimbursable. Such add-on fees include checked baggage fees and advance seat selection fees. Add-on airline fees should be paid by the traveler and submitted for reimbursement with an original detailed receipt. The use of upgraded/preferred coach seating options is generally a traveler's personal choice and therefore is a traveler's personal expense. If travel is on a sponsored program, accommodations must be limited to tourist or economy class. Direct Payment by the University Air transportation tickets may be purchased in advance from a travel agency or an air carrier directly by the University. The departmental purchasing card should be used for the prepayment of airline tickets. Initial Payment by the Individual Employees who choose to purchase their tickets must secure reimbursement through a travel voucher after travel is completed. No reimbursement for reduced-fare advance purchase tickets will be made to employees prior to completion of travel since direct payment by the University is available. Frequent Flyer Program State employees while in official travel status shall select air carriers based on the cost and time criteria, not on whether frequent flyer premiums are given. State employees earning frequent flyer premiums while on state business must use them to reduce the cost of subsequent Clemson University business travel whenever possible. Adequate Documentation In order for the traveler to receive reimbursement, adequate documentation reflecting the ticket cost, dates and destination must accompany the travel voucher. This may be accomplished via one or several of the following: boarding pass, copy of a printed ticket, or print-out from an internet purchase. Airport Shuttle The use of the airport shuttle to transport employees to the airport from Clemson and return them after their trip can be considered a part of the employee's travel expense and will be reimbursed as such. The departmental purchasing card may not be used for this expense. Ridesharing Travelers may utilize such services, but receipts are still required to be reimbursed per the Receipts section below. Surcharges and fees may be reimbursable if the total cost is comparable to other ground transportation options. Travelers need to be aware that there is no guarantee of safety when using such a service. International Travel International travel, for reimbursement purposes, is defined by State of South Carolina law as travel outside the continental US, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, or Puerto Rico. For approval purposes, travel to Canada is considered International travel and requires approval prior to departure using the International Travel Approval Form. International travel funded from Sponsor Approvals must be approved in advance by the Grants and Contracts Administration Office. Refer to the Grants and Contracts Administration Website for details. Fly America Act - Travelers using Federal grant funds are required to fly on U.S. flag air carriers as stated in the Fly America Act. Contact your principal investigator or Grants & Contracts Administration for detailed Federal regulations. https://www.tvlon.com/resources/FlyAct.html While on International travel actual lodging expenses will be reimbursed. Fees for the purchase of traveler's checks, passports, and visas will be reimbursed provided a receipt is furnished. All expenses claimed must be converted to U.S. dollars and the conversion rate is properly documented. If receipts are not provided, only the maximum daily rate established by the Federal Government for meals and incidentals can be claimed. When claiming reimbursement for actual expenses of meals that exceeds the daily rate, receipts are required. Click here for International Per Diem Rates, including a breakdown of meals and incidental expenses. If it is necessary to rent an automobile while in travel status outside the United States, it is recommended the collision damage waiver insurance be obtained. The charge and the applicable tax will be included on the automobile rental statement submitted with the request for reimbursement. If you are traveling Internationally with students, check with Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad (abroad@clemson.edu or 864-656-2457) to ensure that your group is following all the University guidelines pertaining to student travel. University Purchasing Card Usage Allowable charges made on a University Purchasing Card are NOT reimbursable to the individual. All employee travel expenditures must be paid by the traveler from personal funds and reimbursed on a Travel Voucher upon return with the exception of: Allowable P-Card Charges for Travel airline and train tickets (including baggage fees IF purchased with ticket) baggage fees when purchased with the ticket conference/registration fees (not including hotels) student travel (includes hotels, ground transportation, airline/flights) food expenses incurred during travel (for students only) rental cars Employees utilizing a P-Card for travel expenses related to a trip that is canceled, where the expense can not be refunded to the card, and where a travel credit may be given instead, are required to use that travel credit on their next possible University travel. The credits paid for by a P-Card are NOT allowed to be used for personal use. For additional information, see the Policies and Procedures on the Purchasing Card Program Website. Reimbursement Procedure When individuals file for reimbursement of travel expenses they are certifying: they have followed the University's travel policies, they have not nor will not receive reimbursement for these expenses from any other entity outside the University, all expenses are business-related and, that all supporting documentation is on file with their department/business office or been submitted via the my.ClemsonOnline Travel Reimbursement application. There are three main classifications for travel reimbursements: in-state, out-of-state, and International. Each method has unique features based on the type of travel and policies thereof. Know Before You Go checklists exist for each classification of travel. Travel reimbursement requests should be filed: as soon as the trip is completed (which adheres to good business practice) within the same fiscal year in which the trip occurred Reimbursement will be made upon completion of the travel. Any reimbursements not filed within the same fiscal year require additional explanation and approval by the appropriate Dean or VP or designee thereof. Employee reimbursements will be posted in CUBS once processed. Click here for a travel quick reference guide. Employees, through my.Clemson, may review the status of their reimbursement. Receipts You must submit receipts for expenditure categories of $25 or more (e.g. 2 taxi charges of $15 and $20 require receipts to be reimbursed). All receipts and paid bills must be submitted with your reimbursement form. On rare occasions, a receipt may not have been provided to the traveler or the traveler may misplace the receipt. In which case, a detailed explanation signed by the traveler may be substituted and included with acceptable proof of payment such as a canceled check or a scanned copy of a credit card statement. Registration Fees Registration fees in the amount necessary to qualify individuals to attend conventions, meetings, conferences, etc. are allowed. These fees can be prepaid using the Departmental Purchasing Card or on a Direct Purchase Voucher. If the registration is prepaid by the traveler or paid at the time of registration of the meeting, reimbursement will be made after the trip is completed. Miscellaneous Expenses Receipts are required if each expense (or a total of expenses in reasonable categories, such as parking, taxis, etc) is $25 or greater. Allowable: Expense must be required for a University business trip. Baggage charges: Transportation charges for authorized excess baggage when carrying equipment necessary to complete official business Necessary charges for storage when such are a result of official business - including tips Charges for checking baggage Charges or tips at transportation terminals or lodging for handling luggage and items necessary to complete the business mission Tips for handling luggage, such as taxi, shuttle, or courtesy transportation drivers or hotel staff Sending baggage, samples, display materials, and/or supplies to the official business location and back to the official station Services of guides, interpreters, or drivers Services of typists, data processors, or stenographers Use of computers, printers, fax machines, and scanners when necessary to complete the official business mission Fees for conference/meeting rooms and equipment when necessary to complete the official business mission Official telephone calls/services, such as faxes, internet access, etc. Emergency purchases of materials or services (i.e., film, batteries, photocopying, etc.) when necessary to complete the official business mission Airport shuttles, taxis, ground transportation Other reasonable expenses if justified and approved by the supervisor as required for travel Non-Allowable: Movies, bar bills, laundry, room service, health or spa fees, etc. will not be subject to reimbursement on the travel expense report. These are considered personal in nature and should be paid by the traveler. Employees will be responsible for unauthorized costs and any additional expenses incurred for personal preference or convenience. If certain non-allowable expenses are deemed business essential and justified as such, they may be reimbursed with the approved written consent of the supervisor . Account Codes TRAVEL IN STATE Expenditures related to travel within the State of South Carolina 6001 Meals Business Related Meal at a location within the State of SC, while attending a conference, seminar, etc in an overnight status or a business meal that meets the IRS criteria. Reimbursed on the travel voucher. 6002 Meals Non-Bus Non-Overnight Non-overnight meal at a location within the State of SC, that is taxable to the employee based on IRS criteria. Reimbursed through the Payroll System. 6003 Lodging Hotel, motel bills within the State of SC 6004 Mileage Personal Reimbursement Mileage reimbursed for use of a personal car if the trip destination is within SC 6005 Contract Rental Car Contract Rental Car charge for a travel destination within the State of SC 6006 Commercial Air Fare Airline ticket cost for a travel destination within the State of SC 6007 University Aircraft Fees for use of the University plane for a travel destination within the State of SC 6008 Other Expenditures Expenditures such as taxis, airport transportation, tolls, portage, telephone calls, etc. for a trip within the State of SC 6009 Registration Fees Fees for a conference or seminar held in the State of SC 6031 Private Aircraft Expenditures related to the use of personal aircraft to travel within the State of SC 6033 Charter Flights Expenditures related to the cost of a charter flight to travel within the State of SC TRAVEL OUT OF STATE Expenditures related to travel outside of South Carolina but within the continental US, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada or Puerto Rico 6010 Meals Business Related Meal at a location outside the State of SC, while attending a conference, seminar, etc in an overnight status or a business meal that meets the IRS criteria. Reimbursed on the travel voucher. 6011 Meals Non-Bus Non-Overnight Non-overnight meal at a location outside the State of SC, that is taxable to the employee based on IRS criteria. Reimbursed through the Payroll System. 6012 Lodging Hotel, motel bills outside the State of SC 6013 Mileage Personal Reimbursement Mileage reimbursed for use of a personal car if the trip destination is outside of SC. Mileage to the airport if the trip destination is outside of the State of SC. 6014 Contract Rental Car Contract Rental Car charge for a travel destination outside the State of SC. 6015 Commercial Air Fare Airline ticket cost for a travel destination outside the State of SC 6016 University Aircraft Fees for use of the University plane for a travel destination outside the State of SC 6017 Other Expenditures Expenditures such as taxis, airport transportation, tolls, portage, telephone calls, etc. for a trip outside the State of SC 6018 Registration Fees Fees for a conference or seminar held outside the State of SC 6032 Private Aircraft Expenditures related to the use of personal aircraft to travel outside the State of SC 6034 Charter Flights Expenditures related to the cost of a charter flight to travel outside the State of SC TRAVEL INTERNATIONAL Expenditures related to travel outside of the continental US, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, or Puerto Rico 6019 Meals Business Related Meal while attending a conference, seminar, etc in an overnight status or a business meal that meets the IRS criteria. Reimbursed on the travel voucher. 6020 Lodging Hotel, motel bills outside the continental US , Alaska , Hawaii , Canada, or Puerto Rico 6021 Mileage Personal Reimbursement Mileage reimbursed for use of a personal car if the trip destination is outside the continental US , Alaska , Hawaii , Canada, or Puerto Rico. Mileage to the airport if the trip destination is international. 6022 Commercial Air Fare Airline ticket cost for a travel destination outside the continental US , Alaska , Hawaii , Canada, or Puerto Rico 6023 University Aircraft Fees for use of the University plane for a travel destination outside the continental US , Alaska , Hawaii , Canada, or Puerto Rico 6024 Other Expenditures Expenditures such as taxis, airport transportation, tolls, portage, telephone calls, etc. for a trip outside the continental US, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, or Puerto Rico 6025 Registration Fees Fees for a conference or seminar held outside the continental US , Alaska , Hawaii , Canada, or Puerto Rico STUDENT TRAVEL Expenditures related to travel where the primary purpose of the travel is to benefit students. 6030 Student Travel Expenditures for student travel TRAVEL ATHLETIC Expenditures related to travel for the Athletic Department 6026 Recruiting General 6027 Recruiting Off-Campus 6028 Officials 6029 Post Game Meals 6035 6043 In-State - Prospect Meals Out-of-State- Prospect Meals 6036 6044 In-State - Prospect Lodging Out-of-State- Prospect Lodging 6037 6045 In-State - Prospect MileReimb Out-of-State - Prospect MileReimb 6038 6046 In-State - Prospect Motor Pool Vehicle Out-of-State - Prospect Motor Pool Vehicle 6039 6047 In-State - Prospect Com Air Fare Out-of-State - Prospect Com Air Fare 6040 6048 In-State - Prospect Univ Aircraft Out-of-State - Prospect Univ Aircraft 6041 6049 In-State - Prospect Other Travel Out-of-State- Prospect Other Travel 6042 6050 In-State - Prospect Regist Fee Out-of-State - Prospect Regist Fee 6051 6052 In-State - Prospect Charter Flight Out-of-State - Prospect Charter Flight 6053 6054 In-State - Official Party Out-of-State - Official Party 6055 6056 In-State - Charter Bus Travel Out-of-State - Charter Bus Travel University High-Risk Travel Policy University High-Risk Travel Policy - 3/1/2020 Travel Booking Process PLEASE READ Starting Friday, May 13, 2022 at midnight EST, Concur Travel will be shut down and Christopherson Business Travel (CBT) will no longer be taking new reservations. Clemson is transitioning to a new travel agency starting May 16, 2022. If you have an existing or previous trip with CBT, you can continue to contact them for assistance at 1-800-285-3603 or university.travel@cbtravel.com. For new travel requests between May 13 - May 30, 2022, please make your own arrangements and email clemsontravel@clemson.edu for further clarity. How to Submit a Travel Reimbursement Concur Travel and Expense - coming September 2022 Concur Travel and Expense Solution - take a look around Knowledge Transfer Website - training guides, FAQs for the new Concur Travel and Expense system going live in the Fall 2022. All current travel processes and several expense processes will soon be replaced by SAP Concur Travel and Expense, a service that will integrate all your travel requests, booking and expense reporting into a single system. By combining these functions, you will be able to book travel and submit expense reports using the same tool. SAP Concur will also manage several non-travel processes, including all P-Card functionality, guest/visitor setup and reimbursement and personal reimbursement. Pilot Group - Finance & Operations and Development will be in our Pilot group that will go-live June 1, 2022. Even though the rest of campus won't be going live until the fall, feel free to check out our Knowledge Transfer Website with training guides, FAQs and updates before the go-live date. We will have many training opportunities and additional tailored training documents as we near the go live date. More details coming soon! Travel FAQs, Forms, Guidelines and Checklists Travel-Related FAQs Travel-Related Frequently Asked Questions (updated 5/13/22) OURClemson - Travel and expense Update, 5/11/2022 Who is our Contracted Travel Management Company? Beginning June 1, 2022, Anthony Travel is Clemson’s travel management company. Anthony is dedicated to assisting the University’s travelers from 7 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. After-hours assistance is available after 5:30 p.m. and on weekends. Beginning June 1st, Anthony Travel can be used for business and leisure travel needs, as well as guests and groups—both online and via an agent. What is Clemson’s Duty of Care requirement? Institutions like Clemson assume a duty of care for their employees. While employees travel worldwide, Clemson needs to remain positioned to quickly and successfully support traveling employees should a situation warrant such care. For this purpose, Clemson will maintain a centralized awareness by having faculty and staff report their itineraries. Even travelers utilizing an exception to the travel rule are required to email their final itinerary to clemsontravel@clemson.edu prior to travel to qualify for reimbursement. I’m traveling within South Carolina, do I need to use the travel management company to book my hotel? While you are not required to use Anthony for in-state travel, they are available if you would like to use them to book. I’m traveling within South Carolina, do I need to use Christopherson to book my rental car? If simply renting a campus Enterprise rental for a day trip, continue to utilize the Clemson Enterprise or National rental website. I need to make departmental travel arrangements for job candidates. How should I accomplish this task? Candidates are not employees, but rather guests. You have two options: Option #1: Have the candidate make their own travel arrangements, submit all receipts and file for reimbursement with your department after the travel is completed. Option #2: Request GUEST travel arranger role permissions with Anthony by emailing clemsontravel@clemson.edu. Role permission is routinely approved within 1-2 business days. Are there health-related reentry restrictions to the U.S.? Currently, there are travel restrictions for certain countries, including the U.S. For travel inquiries and up-to-date information on travel restrictions, visit the US Department of State's COVID-19 Country Specific Information page. For travel health guidance, visit CDC's COVID-19 Travel Recommendations by Country page. See the CDC's Requirements for Air Passengers Arriving in the United States for additional information. My department’s administrator arranges my travel. How can I add an assistant or travel arranger to my traveler profile so they can facilitate booking, change or view my trip itineraries? After logging into the travel system, click on your name in the upper right-hand corner, select VIEW TRAVEL PROFILE from the dropdown. Scroll down to the following section, click on and make your updates: Will I be able to book personal travel through the travel management company? Yes, the online booking tool is available for leisure travel and to coordinate additional travelers using the tool, if needed (such as when traveling with a spouse/child or adding additional vacation days on to the beginning or end of the trip). Are students required to use Christopherson Business Travel for travel? While departmental Guest travel arrangers (after the requested role is activated) can make reservations for students, students do not have to utilize Anthony at this time. What is the Concur Timeline? Travelers will be able to use the online booking tool beginning June 1, 2022. Until the Concur Expense module is made available this Fall 2022 to campus, travelers should continue to use the existing processes for all travel needs. Travel Forms Forms effective for travel ON or AFTER January 1, 2022 Domestic Travel Reimbursement In-State Form - Paperless Filing In-State Form - Excel Document Out-of-State Form - Paperless Filing Out-of-State Form - Excel Document International Travel Expense Form International Travel Request Form Non-overnight Travel Log Form Rental Car vs. Mileage Reimbursement Calculator 2022 — use this tool to help decide the more cost-effective way of traveling by automobile. Forms effective for travel BEFORE January 1, 2022 Domestic Travel Reimbursement In-State Form - Paperless Filing In-State Form - Excel Document Out-of-State Form - Paperless Filing Out-of-State Form - Excel Document International Travel Expense Form International Travel Request Form Non-overnight Travel Log Form Rental Car vs. Mileage Reimbursement Calculator 2021 — use this tool to help decide the more cost-effective way of traveling by automobile. Student Travel Guidelines Definition Trips for which the primary purpose is to benefit students would be considered student travel. Student travel may consist of students: attending a conference or seminar (possibly as a participant). taking a field trip in relation to their course work. traveling as a recognized club event. Travel costs related to an employee traveling as an advisor/chaperone may be treated as student group travel costs. All expenses may be submitted on one travel voucher. Travel costs for chaperones who are not University employees (i.e. volunteers) should be treated as student group travel costs. Job-related travel for a student employee (i.e. grad research assistant), is to be treated as student travel. All international student travel by, whether solo or group, must be registered in the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad and may be subject to high-risk travel review. Planning With adequate planning, any of the following methods may be used to fund the trip. Student travel is allowable on the procurement card. May need to have a limit on card increased. (cards limited to $2500) The faculty members may fill out the cash advance for student travel form from Cash and Treasury in accordance with per diem guidelines. Faculty members and/or students may pay expenditures out of their own funds and request reimbursement upon return. For groups of 10 or greater, complete the Group Travel Reservation Form and contact Christopherson Business Travel company. (new as of 4/1/16) Obtain advance invoices and prepay expenditures. For international travel, it is recommended that the procurement card be used or that funds be wired to an international bank. Also for International travel, check with the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad ( Abroad-L@clemson.edu or 864-656-2457) to ensure that your group is following all the University guidelines pertaining to student travel. Funding Options State funds Sponsored Projects (grant) funds Discretionary or Foundation funds Fees paid by participants Required Documentation List of all participants. (Name and ID #) Paid hotel receipts (number of rooms must be in line with the number of participants) Meals: Refer to meals section. Lodging If each student is paying his/her own expenses, actual lodging expenses may be reimbursed. A University purchase order is not required. Reimbursement should be claimed through a PeopleSoft Financial Voucher. Meals Meals will be reimbursed at actual costs not to exceed per diem, except when applicable. Faculty member pays for meals for the entire group: Must have receipts to get reimbursed for actual cost, not to exceed per diem. Faculty member gives per diem money to each participant: Each participant must sign indicating receipt of the funds. Recommended documentation would include participants' name, ID number, and signature, and the amount received. No receipts required. Student traveling and paying his/her own costs: Student may claim actual expense up to per diem. No receipts required. Fee for conference event related to trip (i.e. banquet) where the amount exceeds meal per diem: With receipts, can be reimbursed for actual costs. Transportation Transportation may be provided in several different manners: Rental car through University Contract Vendor, Enterprise/National. Contracted University Travel Manager, Christopherson Business Travel. See your department contact for help with the travel arrangements. Travel on Commercial Airlines. Contracted transportation (i.e. charter bus). Purchase Order required if greater than $2,500, unless being paid for with participant fees. Mileage reimbursement at the University approved rate. Reimbursement must be claimed on separate vouchers for each vehicle owner. Other Incidental Costs Comply with University employee travel guidelines. Travel Insurance Coverage It is MANDATORY to contact the University Office of Risk Management to obtain information on the purchase of the travel insurance. When Procurement Rules Apply For group travel where a trip is packaged (i.e. hotel and airfare, etc…), use Christopherson Business Travel. For contracted transportation such as a charter bus, State and University Procurement rules must be followed and bids/prices must be obtained. A purchase order must be issued PRIOR to the travel in order to prevent the purchase from being an unauthorized procurement. For dollar limits and the number of bids required, refer to Procurement Services Policies and Procedures Contact Procurement Services for further assistance. In-State Travel Checklist Know Before You Go Obtain authorization to travel from your Department Chair, Budget Officer, Supervisor or Principal Investigator. A good contact for travel-related questions starts with your Business Officer. Registration fees in the amount necessary to qualify individuals to attend conventions, meetings, conferences, etc. are allowed. These fees can be prepaid using the Departmental Purchasing Card or on a buyWays Payment Request Form. If the registration is prepaid by the traveler or paid at the time of registration of the meeting, reimbursement will be made after the trip is completed. Determine method of travel (personal car, rental car, University aircraft, etc.). Review Rental vs. Personal Vehicle Calculator to aid with your decision. Rental car reservations may now be also charged to your departmental P-Card. Consider joining the Enterprise Plus program, to make your reservation process simpler. Step 1: Click Click here to join. Step 2: Complete the form and click on "submit". Step 3: Print the Welcome page that displays the temporary Enterprise Plus for Business card and unique member number. We will mail you a permanent member card within 4 to 6 weeks. Reserve an Enterprise Rental On-campus location: Old Motor Pool Building, 200 Service Drive, behind Facilities on Klugh Avenue 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Location contact: 864-654-0904. Seneca location: 204 By-Pass 123 Seneca, SC 29678, 864-888-1115 Sunday Closed Monday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Tuesday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Wednesday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Thursday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Friday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Saturday 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM Clemson University has a rental contract with Enterprise to provide vehicles while they are being used for Clemson University's business. The contract includes liability insurance and a collision deductible waiver. Therefore, the employee does not need to purchase any additional insurance from Enterprise. Enterprise does not offer its "pickup service" at this location. Click here to see all their SC and No GA rental locations or for more info on the Enterprise contract. Schedule lodging reservations (if applicable). Clemson University now had preferred lodging in the areas below: Charleston Direct Bill Columbia Direct Bill Greenville, SC and the Clemson Area Charleston, SC Columbia, SC Meals If you depart before If you return after In State Breakfast 6:30 a.m. 11:00 a.m. $8 Lunch 11:00 a.m. 1:30 p.m. $10 Dinner 5:15 p.m. 8:30 p.m. $17 TOTAL $35 Receipts Obtain all original receipts while traveling. You must submit receipts for expenditures of $25 or more. All receipts and paid bills should be originals. On rare occasions, a receipt may not have been provided to the traveler or the traveler may misplace the receipt. If originals are not available or documentation is inadequate, a detailed explanation signed by the authorized signer may be substituted. my.Clemson Travel Reimbursement How you will receive your reimbursement payment — Note: Your reimbursement will not accompany your regular semi-monthly payroll deposits but rather, if signed up for Direct Deposit, your travel reimbursement is processed twice weekly on Tuesday and Thursday. Out-of-State Travel Checklist Know Before You Go Obtain authorization per your organization's requirements, to travel from your Department Chair, Budget Officer, Supervisor, or Principal Investigator. A good contact for travel-related questions starts with your Business Officer. Registration fees in the amount necessary to qualify individuals to attend conventions, meetings, conferences, etc. are allowed. These fees can be prepaid using the Departmental Purchasing Card. If the registration is prepaid by the traveler or paid at the time of registration of the meeting, reimbursement will be made after the trip is completed. Traveler Tools a resource for travel-related, free/discounted services. Airline Sites Airport 3-letter Codes Airline Seat Guru identifies the good from the bad on specific aircraft. If you’re traveling by vehicle, from South Carolina to an out-of-state location, please review the Rental vs. Personal Vehicle Calculator to aid with your decision. Rental car reservations may now be also charged to your departmental P-Card. Consider joining the Enterprise Plus program, to make your reservation process simpler: Step 1: Click here to join Step 2: Complete the form and click on "submit". Step 3: Print the Welcome page that displays the temporary Enterprise Plus for Business card and unique member number. We will mail you a permanent member card within 4 to 6 weeks . Reserve an Enterprise Rental On-campus location: Old Motor Pool Building, 200 Service Drive, behind Facilities on Klugh Avenue 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Location contact: 864-654-0904. Seneca location: 204 By Pass 123 Seneca, SC 29678, 864-888-1115 Sunday Closed Monday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Tuesday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Wednesday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Thursday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Friday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Saturday 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM Enterprise does not offer its "pickup service" at this location. Click here to see all their SC and No GA rental locations or for more info on the Enterprise contract. Airport Shuttle (Clemson Area to GSP, ATL, and CLT airports) Reminder: Use of P-Card is prohibited for shuttle charges. Departing Airport Information: Greenville-Spartanburg (GSP), Atlanta/Hartsfield-Jackson (ATL), Charlotte-Douglas (CLT), Asheville (AVL), Columbia (CAE), Charleston (CHS) Flight Tracker provides live data on airlines’ departures & arrivals. Amtrak Greenlink Bus Routes and Fares (Clemson to/from Greenville) Transportation Security Agency (TSA) Traveler Information Meals If you depart before If you return after Out of State Breakfast 6:30 a.m. 11:00 a.m. $10 Lunch 11:00 a.m. 1:30 p.m. $15 Dinner 5:15 p.m. 8:30 p.m. $25 TOTAL $50 Receipts Obtain all original receipts while traveling. You must submit receipts for expenditures of $25 or more. All receipts and paid bills should be originals. On rare occasions, a receipt may not have been provided to the traveler or the traveler may misplace the receipt. If originals are not available or documentation is inadequate, a detailed explanation signed by the authorized signer may be substituted. my.Clemson Travel Reimbursement Note: Don’t include airfare, conference registration or other charges for reimbursement if you used a P-Card or direct billing to your organization. How you will receive your reimbursement payment - Note: Your reimbursement will not accompany your regular semi-monthly payroll deposits but rather, if signed up for Direct Deposit, your travel reimbursement is processed twice weekly on Tuesday and Thursday. International Travel Checklist Know Before You Go Obtain authorization to travel through the Authorization for Official International Travel Form along with the Export Control Form. Note: includes a declaration of shipped/carried equipment subject to export control review Enroll in the free US State Department’s Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP)providing enrollees with their destination’s travel advisories. Also, In addition to Christopherson’s Business Travel’s alerts, there are a number of ways to receive updates from other safety and security information. Choose the right ones for your situation. Traveler’s Insurance If utilizing your P-Card while traveling abroad, the cardholder needs to call the Bank of America (866-500-8262) and notify them of their itinerary to the most accurate degree as possible. The cardholder will need their 16-digit card number and the name of our P-Card Administrator (Lynn Crawford). Registration fees in the amount necessary to qualify individuals to attend conventions, meetings, conferences, etc. are allowed. These fees can be prepaid using the Departmental Purchasing Card (P-Card). If the registration is prepaid by the traveler or paid at the time of registration of the meeting, reimbursement will be made after the trip is completed. Sponsored Program International Travel Policy Note: If International travel is not specified in the approved proposal, the PI must obtain written approval from the sponsor before submitting the Authorization for Official International Travel form If you are traveling internationally with students, check with Clemson Abroad (abroad@clemson.edu or 864-656-2457) to ensure that your group is following all the University guidelines pertaining to student travel. Transportation Security Agency (TSA) Traveler Information Travel Advisories (U.S. State Dept) Traveler’s Health Traveler’s Safety Airline Seat Guru identify the good from the bad on specific aircraft Traveler Resources a resource for travel-related, free / discounted services International Per Diem Rates Expedited Passports and Visa Services Lodging Abroad Reminder: Use of P-Card is prohibited for lodging charges. Airport Shuttle (Clemson Area to GSP, ATL, and CLT airports) Reminder: Use of P-Card is prohibited for shuttle charges. Departing Airport Information Greenville-Spartanburg (GSP), Hartsfield-Jackson (Atlanta) (ATL) , Charlotte-Douglas (CLT) , Asheville (AVL) , Columbia (CAE) & Charleston (CHS) (to include off-airport parking, where applicable) & Airport 3-letter Codes Flight Tracker provides live data on airlines' departures & arrivals International Rail Services Currency Converter Receipts Obtain all original receipts while traveling. You must submit receipts for expenditures of $25 or more. All receipts and paid bills should be originals. On rare occasions, a receipt may not have been provided to the traveler or the traveler may misplace the receipt. If originals are not available or documentation is inadequate, a detailed explanation signed by the authorized signer may be substituted. International Travel Reimbursement Form Note: Don't include airfare, conference registration, or other charges for reimbursement if you used a P-Card or direct billing to your organization. How you will receive your reimbursement payment Note: Your reimbursement will not accompany your regular semi-monthly payroll deposits but rather, if signed up for Direct Deposit, your travel reimbursement is processed twice weekly on Tuesday and Thursday. About Travel Management Services The mission of Travel Services is to provide an efficient, cost-wise travel management program to assist University faculty and staff with their travel needs. We will work to negotiate smart rates from travel vendors, consult with departments on how to better manage their travel costs, respond timely to customer feedback and present training opportunities to University clientele while assuring South Carolina Procurement Code and Regulations, University policy and applicable federal guidelines / regulations are followed. Travel Services - Clemson Centre, 390 College Ave, Suite 203, Clemson, SC 29634-5365, 864-656-2390 ext. 6, clemsontravel@clemson.edu Travel - Archived Information COVID-19 Information - Archived - See Above for Latest Resources Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Travel Information Clemson University General Information University-Affiliated Travel All University-related travel Is suspended until further notice, even if previously approved. Any exception to this policy will require the following review: Faculty and staff travel within the United States must be deemed essential per college criteria and reviewed by the employee’s chair/director and approved by the dean/vice president. Faculty and staff travel outside of the United States, including the US territories of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, US Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands must be deemed essential and requires review by the Office of Global Engagement pursuant to the University’s High-Risk Travel Policy. Once resumed, departmental evaluation of all future university-affiliated travel is required. The university encourages students, faculty, and staff to find alternate means of conducting their studies and business associated with non-essential travel. Any travel booked after 3/6 which is not booked through a University-contracted travel agent below is not eligible for reimbursement. Online Travel Booking Tool Link How to update your Travel Profile (Update Profile First**) Online Travel Booking Tool Cost and FAQs Determining Essential Travel 3/6/2020 Student Travel For any questions related to specific study abroad students travel, we suggest you contact the Office of Global Engagement at (864) 656-2457 or abroad@clemson.edu Travel Reimbursement Instructions - 5/11/2020 Student Travel Advisory - 3/4/2020 Employee Travel University High-Risk Travel Policy - 3/1/2020 Faculty and Staff Travel Advisory (Inside Clemson) - 3/3/2020 Guidelines for Travel booked prior to March 3rd but not taken due to COVID-19 guidelines Guidelines for Business Officers to account for COVID-19 related travel expenses Guest / Visitor Travel All individuals must comply with the testing requirement listed on the University’s COVID-19 website. In addition, individuals who have been outside of the United States within 14 days prior to seeking access to Clemson facilities are required to be tested for COVID-19 as soon as possible upon arrival or return from abroad. Self-isolation is required upon entry into the United States until such time that a negative test result is received. If the test result is negative, individuals can resume normal activities. This requirement for COVID-19 testing applies to anyone who may travel outside of the United States at any time during the semester. See here for more info High-Risk Travel Directives and Procedures (DISCONTINUE AS OF 4/4/22) Health and Safety Directive - High-Risk Travel (PDF) HEALTH AND SAFETY DIRECTIVE: HIGH-RISK TRAVEL PROCEDURES Pursuant to the University High-Risk Travel Policy dated March 1, 2020, and the associated High-Risk Travel directive, the following are procedures to be followed for booking travel: All University travel must be approved as essential travel as required by the Policy and Directive noted above prior to booking any travel. Employees booking new travel that includes airline tickets and takes place prior to May 1, 2022 must use the University-approved travel agent, Christopherson Business Travel (CBT) to book these plans. This is required because: should there be another spike in COVID-19 and/or unexpected travel restrictions occur, and it is necessary to cancel plans, CBT can efficiently apply ticket credits to the University for future travel, not requiring the University to pay for flights that never take place but remain as credits to a specific individual (note, State regulations normally require employees only to get reimbursed AFTER travel takes place, but this booking thru CBT, this helps alleviate risk to employees of being stuck with tickets that they can’t be reimbursed for if trips are canceled or changed). this allows Clemson to easily react to a Duty of Care requirement to easily and centrally know where our employees are at any specific time should a situation arise that requires that information. Employees may book travel online with CBT or may call and use an agent to assist and make a booking. See the Travel Booking Process link below for more details. All other travel policies and procedures remain in effect for any travel taking place at this time Exceptions to Using Booking Tool EXCEPTION: Employees that canceled travel plans in Spring 2020 and have airline credits that the University already paid for (through reimbursement or via P-Card) may book travel directly with the airline on their own using these credits. Domestic travel – employees may choose to book domestic airfare on their own, but by not using CBT, employees MUST pay on their own (no P-Card) and be reimbursed AFTER travel is complete. In addition, employee accepts all risk and costs associated with change and cancellation fees To meet our Duty of Care requirement, travelers utilizing this exception rule either of these exceptions are required to email their final itinerary to clemsontravel@clemson.edu prior to travel in order to qualify for reimbursement. Home Faculty / Staff How to Buy/Pay Travel FAQ Contact Us Related Links Office of the VP for Finance and Operations CUBS Disbursements Taxes Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram