Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News At the Intersection of Hudson River Microbiology and Environmental Justice With Elise Myers Ecology At the Intersection of Hudson River Microbiology and Environmental Justice With Elise Myers She’s trying predict fecal bacteria contamination of the river, and researching how environmental degradation disproportionately harms disadvantaged communities. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn February 11, 2021 This Q&A is part of a short series highlighting some of the Earth Institute’s women scientists as part of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science on February 11. Read more about the day and our related blog posts here. Doctoral candidate Elise Myers is trying predict fecal bacteria contamination of the Hudson river. She also studies how environmental degradation disproportionately harms disadvantaged communities. Photo: Greta Moran Elise McKenna Myers is drawn to the interdisciplinary nature of things. From the second grade, growing up in Baltimore County, Maryland, she knew she wanted to be a marine biologist, and yet, she chose to study at the art and technology high school. She thought that finding beauty and purpose in art and focusing on creative writing and journalism would help her to communicate her science. She was right. Today her research goes to the core of both cutting-edge discovery and environmental justice issues. As a biological oceanographer and doctoral candidate at Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Myers is studying the microbial life of the Hudson River, combining fieldwork, experimentation, and modeling to gain a better understanding of how fecal bacteria contaminates, lives, and dies in the estuary. Her work can ultimately help answer the question, how safe is it to swim in the Hudson? Myers is also committed to surfacing the inherent injustice that environmental degradation creates for underserved communities. To this end, she is a devoted mentor and a dynamic public speaker. We spoke to Myers on the eve of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science, a day in which she hopes women scientists will think about ways to take action to support and encourage girls to explore geosciences.* Your current work involves exploring how microbial models can be linked to fluid dynamics to predict the mortality and transport of fecal indicator bacteria in the Hudson River. What does that mean to the layperson who lives near and wants to swim, boat, or fish in the Hudson? If I wanted to tell you if you could, biologically speaking, swim in the Hudson today, I can only take a sample of water, grow the bacteria, and tomorrow I can tell you if the water was safe, which is super unsatisfying. That seemed dangerous for people who potentially could be swimming and not know about the risk and not even understand the bounds of the risk they’re dealing with. Myers and colleague Carol Knudson collect water from the Hudson at Piermont Pier. Photo: Greta Moran We do know that when there are rainstorms, it’s more likely that we’re going to have sewage pollution in the river because wastewater treatment plants get overwhelmed and combined sewer overflows occur, which allows raw or untreated sewage to flow into the waterway. That happens after a quarter-inch of rain, so it doesn’t take much. I want to be able to tell people when they should or shouldn’t swim, and the way you can do that is to develop models. I did several experiments and then used the experiments to parameterize the models. Using this data together helped us get a better sense of what’s happening in the field and what kind of predictions we can make. You don’t want to get a mouthful of water that has a [high concentration] of fecal bacteria in it. You could get sick. It’s also not a fun thing to think about for sure. What drew you to research the Hudson? Myers teaching kids about oceanography at the Lamont-Doherty Open House. Photo: Liz Moscalenko Growing up in Baltimore, the Inner Harbor is right there and the Chesapeake Bay Estuary is also there, and I was obsessed with it—fascinated by how all these complex networks work together in more remote areas and also within the harbor itself. [In the Inner Harbor], there’s this urban area and yet there’s this complex ecosystem right there, coexisting. As I learned more, I wanted to study an area where I could have an impact on the stakeholders. In an urban area, that’s where we—unfortunately—see environmental degradation coinciding with economic status being lower and with more underrepresented minorities. So, I was very interested in finding an urban system that was also a critical water body in an urbanized area. In the U.S., what better highly urbanized water system could you go to right inside of the New York/New Jersey Metropolitan area? You also research inequality in human health and environmental exposure among racial and/or ethnic minorities and low socioeconomic status individuals. What compels you about this complex dynamic? Environmental inequality is to me viscerally so unfair and unjust, because it impacts people where they live, people who may or may not have the ability to choose where they’re living. Companies can choose where they put a factory. [Governmental regulators] can choose what we’re regulating or not regulating. It’s such a disservice to allow more pollution in areas where people cannot afford to get out. The lack of fairness strikes me and is very frustrating. It’s true in so many ecosystems and community groups. This is something we need to deal with. One of the best things we can do right now is to address these wrongs, stop them, and also try to make the system more equal. That means minimizing pollution and really understanding where there is more exposure. * Myers wanted to share that people can sign up to be mentors or to get involved as a mentee at the GAINS Network. “I really have enjoyed being involved with them and I think it’s a great low-key way to encourage some action on International Day of Women and Girls in Science,” she says. Tags environmental justice featured story Hudson River Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory student faculty spotlights Women in Science News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close