Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Degrees Undergraduate 4 + 1 Programs Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Master of Public Health Master of Science Master of Health Administration Doctoral Programs Dual Degrees Degree Requirements Executive and Professional Education Undergraduate 4 + 1 Programs Master of Public Health Master of Science Master of Health Administration Doctoral Programs Dual Degrees Degree Requirements Executive and Professional Education Undergraduate 4 + 1 Programs Undergraduate 4 + 1 Programs Columbia Public Health offers dual degree 4+1 programs in which a student earns a Bachelor’s degree from their undergraduate college then continues on to an accelerated Masters of Public Health (MPH) program at Columbia Public Health. Accepted students spend the fall semester of their senior year at Columbia Public Health and take the multidisciplinary Core Curriculum. Students then return to their college for the spring semester of their senior year. Once the student graduates from their undergraduate college, they enter the Columbia Public Health program that includes a year of coursework, thesis work and a practicum. The practicum will occur in the summer following the Columbia Public Health MPH year. Participating Colleges Columbia Public Health participates in dual-degree "4+1" BA/MPH programs with the following colleges: Barnard College Columbia College Columbia School of General Studies Dickinson College Vassar College Requirements All students are expected to have at least one semester of calculus, statistics or other appropriate quantitative course. A minimum GPA of 3.5 is required. Additional prerequisites for particulary MPH disciplines include: Biostatistics requires a total of one year of calculus. Environmental Health Sciences requires one year of both chemistry and biology. Application Process Before you apply you will need to identify a Department of Interest. Browse the Department pages to identify the area of study that's right for you. Some departments have different admission requirements for their programs. Applications components include: Personal Statement/Statement of Purpose Please submit a personal statement/statement of purpose of no more than 500 words. Your statement should address: Why are you applying to the Mailman School of Public Health? What interests you about the department and degree you are applying to at the Mailman School of Public Health? How do you hope to use your education from the Mailman School of Public Health to achieve your long-term career goals? CV or Resume Please send an up-to-date CV/resume that includes: Educational degrees Employment Experiences (especially those related to public health) Professional skills and accomplishments Volunteer activities Awards Transcripts Applicants will not need to provide transcripts as they will be shared by the school on the applicant’s behalf. MSPH is confirming our ability to pull these transcripts and if not, could you provide them or should we amend this language? Apply Here Barnard College Columbia College Columbia School of General Studies Vassar College Dickinson College applicants please contact kilkol [at] dickinson.edu (subject: Dickinson%20College%204%2B1%20Application) (Laura Kilko). Additonal Undergraduate Programming Columbia Public Health also provides programming that serves undergradautes by introducing them to public health and environmental health studies. These include: BEST: Biostatistics Enrichment Summer Training Diversity Program PRIMER: Program to Inspire Minority Undergraduates in Environmental Health Research More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers