Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Accessibility Statement Accessibility Statement The University of Nebraska–Lincoln (UNL) is committed to diversity and inclusion across all of our physical and digital campuses. Available Accommodations For Students Services for Students with Disabilities provides a full range of accommodations and other support. For Faculty & Staff Faculty/Staff Disability Services in the Institutional Equity and Compliance office can assist with developing your accommodation plan. Accessibility Help Help with Course Accessibility Assistance and training for faculty seeking to improve the accessibility of their courses is available through the Center for Transformative Teaching. UNL faculty and instructors may also wish to take the Canvas-based workshop “Designing Accessible Online Courses.” Help with Web and Digital Accessibility For quick help with the accessibility of web and other screen-based technologies, the UNL Web Developer Network has an always-on chatroom; if you need direct, personalized help, email the UNL Digital Experience Group. All university web pages include a quality assurance (QA) Test link in the footer from which you can run a multiple-factor quality test which includes an accessibility test. You may contact the owner of any UNL web page through the ‘Email Us/Let’s Chat’ widget (located at lower right in desktop and mobile interfaces). Help with General IT Accessibility and Procurement If you are seeking help with developing, purchasing, or evaluating the accessibility of a piece of technology, please contact the University of Nebraska’s IT Accessibility Lead via email at: it-accessibility@nebraska.edu. More information on systemwide accessibility compliance efforts, including the draft policy and accessibility framework, is available at University of Nebraska IT Accessibility. Report a Concern The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is committed to providing an accessible campus environment. UNL relies on you to speak up if you believe you have observed barriers. You may choose to use existing channels, such as contacting your advisor or supervisor, or seek assistance through the Accommodation Resource Center (students) or Faculty/Staff Disability Services. If you prefer, you may submit a report to TIPS, our anonymous incident reporting service; a link is available in the footer of all UNL web pages. We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.