Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give About Berkeley The University of California was founded in 1868, born out of a vision in the State Constitution of a university that would "contribute even more than California's gold to the glory and happiness of advancing generations." By the numbers From faculty awards to the number of books in our libraries, see Berkeley through its facts and figures. History and contributions The Free Speech Movement, wetsuits, a treatment for malaria and earthquake science. You might be surprised to learn what Berkeley has contributed to the world. Experience Berkeley Right here, right now. Get a sense for what's happening on the ground at Berkeley. Traditions Explore the rites, rituals and rallies that become a part of every Berkeley student's campus experience. Visit Ready to see Berkeley for yourself? Find out about daily campus tours, parking and public transportation. Book a tour Campus map Leadership See a complete list of campus administrators and deans, and find unit-by-unit organizational charts. What happens at UC Berkeley isn't magic. It just feels that way. What happens at UC Berkeley isn't magic. It just feels that way. (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × What happens at UC Berkeley isn't magic. It just feels that way. [ Text Transcript ] Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: What happens at UC Berkeley isn't magic.  It just feels that way. Close Academic Departments and Programs 184 Student-to-faculty ratio 17.8 to 1 Nobel Prizes held by current faculty 9 Freshmen who are first generation college students 23% More numbers “Berkeley is a glorious place. Everywhere you turn you find this commitment to excellence.” Oliver Williamson, 2009 Nobelist, economics Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved