Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Admissions Apply - Undergraduate Students Apply - Graduate Students Non-degree and Visiting Students Request to Re-enroll Cost, Aid and Scholarships Ambler Campus Scholarships Fox School of Business and Management Scholarships Scholarships and Awards for All Majors Scholarships and Awards for Current and Incoming Freshmen Next Steps for Admitted Students Request Information Visit Campus Tours Information Sessions Transfer Thursdays Schedule an Appointment Academics Academic Programs Continuing Education Law Enforcement Training Center Science and Mathematics Scholars Program Campus Resources Advising and Student Success Diamond General Café Disability Resources and Service Diversity and Inclusion Essential Information for Returning to Campus Greenhouse ID Cards (OWLcard) Library Off-Campus Housing Recreation and Wellness Recreation Recreation Events Red Barn Recreation Center Reservations Student Life Student Research, Innovation and Success Sustainability and Safety Technology Town Life Transportation Inter-Campus Bus For the Community Calendar of Events EarthFest Corpse Flower Central Meeting, Training and Recreation Spaces Facility Rentals Non-Credit Programs Non-Credit Registration Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Small Business Development Center Summer Education Camps Institutional Research and Assessment Testing Center Volunteer Opportunities Meet Our Recent Graduates Arboretum Field Station About News Contact Faculty Course Grant Giving Maps and Directions Directions Parking Public Transportation Sustainability at Ambler Tornado Recovery at Temple University Ambler Visitor Policies Meet the Director Temple University Ambler Campus Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Local Campus. Global Perspective. Local Campus. Global Perspective. Campus Tours Campus Tours Temple University offers the option to tour Ambler Campus in person. Available on weekdays, our campus tours feature a walking tour with an Owl Ambassador or staff member. Campus Tours Transfer Thursday Transfer Thursday Schedule a 1-on-1 appointment with an admissions representative to learn about the transfer process. Transfer Thursday Campus Recovery Campus Recovery After the tornado strike, recovery efforts continue steadily at Temple Ambler. Learn how you can be a part of those efforts! Campus Recovery Campus Tours Campus Tours Temple University offers the option to tour Ambler Campus in person. Available on weekdays, our campus tours feature a walking tour with an Owl Ambassador or staff member. Campus Tours Transfer Thursday Transfer Thursday Schedule a 1-on-1 appointment with an admissions representative to learn about the transfer process. Transfer Thursday Campus Recovery Campus Recovery After the tornado strike, recovery efforts continue steadily at Temple Ambler. Learn how you can be a part of those efforts! Campus Recovery apply to temple Apply to Temple Apply for admission to Temple University. Select Ambler Campus to experience the best of both worlds. apply to temple Apply to Temple Schedule A Visit Schedule a Visit Discover for yourself all we have to offer. Talk with an admissions representative and current students. Explore our campus facilities and our 187-acre Ambler Arboretum. Schedule A Visit Schedule a Visit Latest Stories See All Stories Sam Emory: Designing a Sustainable Future Sam Emory: Designing a Sustainable Future Sam Emory: Designing a Sustainable Future Temple University Ambler Campus Sam Emory: Designing a Sustainable Future by James Duffy May 12 There is something about the Ambler Arboretum of Temple University that recent graduate Sam Emory loves that other people might not readily think about. "I love labels on tree... Gabrielle Widjaja: Getting Hand-on with Biochemistry in the Temple Ambler Field Station Gabrielle Widjaja: Getting Hand-on with Biochemistry in the Temple Ambler Field Station Gabrielle Widjaja: Getting Hand-on with Biochemistry in the Temple Ambler Field Station College of Science and Technology Gabrielle Widjaja: Getting Hand-on with Biochemistry in the Temple Ambler Field Station by James Duffy May 10 Temple University recent graduate Gabrielle Widjaja never expected to be involved in the type of research she has undertaken with the Temple Ambler Field Station. "Certainly, ... Leona Edmund: Embracing the Challenge to Achieve a Lifelong Goal Leona Edmund: Embracing the Challenge to Achieve a Lifelong Goal Leona Edmund: Embracing the Challenge to Achieve a Lifelong Goal Temple University Ambler Campus Leona Edmund: Embracing the Challenge to Achieve a Lifelong Goal by James Duffy May 05 Leona Edmund never had to look very far to find the endless well of inspiration that she needed to return to the classroom to complete her Temple degree in the Bachelor of Gen... Bachelor of General Studies: Crossing the Finish Line Bachelor of General Studies: Crossing the Finish Line Bachelor of General Studies: Crossing the Finish Line Temple University Ambler Campus Bachelor of General Studies: Crossing the Finish Line by James Duffy May 02 In March 2021, Temple's new Bachelor of General Studies degree was still nearly half a year away from its official launch during the fall 2021 semester. Fast forward to May 20... Antywane Robinson: A Champion on the Court and in the Classroom Antywane Robinson: A Champion on the Court and in the Classroom Antywane Robinson: A Champion on the Court and in the Classroom Temple University Ambler Campus Antywane Robinson: A Champion on the Court and in the Classroom by James Duffy May 02 Antywane Robinson — soon to be one of the first graduates of Temple University's Bachelor of General Studies program — knows a little something about the dedication an... Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Ambler Campus 580 Meetinghouse Road Ambler, PA 19002 USA Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.