Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Digital Marketing MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Digital Marketing MS Apply Request More Info Digital Marketing MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Digital Marketing Advance your marketing knowledge and skills to grow your career in a rapidly evolving digital media environment with the Master of Science in Digital Marketing in Temple’s Fox School of Business. In this master’s program, you’ll use market research to inform strategic decision-making while applying design thinking within an omnichannel world. Through hands-on learning and real-world practice, you’ll learn persuasive communication techniques, the ins and outs of an organization’s digital infrastructure, and how to fuse digital marketing and traditional advertising strategies to maximize profitability and efficiency. Upon completion of the Digital Marketing program, you’ll be equipped with cutting-edge skills to develop and manage modern brands through authentic communication with customers and prospects. You’ll be empowered to enter the workforce and produce strategic, effective media plans that shape how brands, their employees and society at large interact with your organization. This 30-credit, part-time master’s program is expected to be completed in five semesters. It provides industry-level expertise through a completely online platform and is delivered one night per week—making it ideal for working professionals. The Master of Science in Digital Marketing is best suited for digital marketing professionals looking to advance their skills and expand their perspective. It is also beneficial for recent business graduates seeking to enhance their understanding of communications, marketing and technology to competitively position themselves in the marketplace. Program Format & Curriculum The Master of Science in Digital Marketing program’s curriculum includes a combination of core digital marketing courses, cross-functional electives and a capstone course. Students can earn several digital marketing certificates through some of the core courses, such as HubSpot and Hootsuite certifications. Core courses in the program include Consumer and Buyer Behavior, Digital Innovation in Product Management and Branding, Information Technology Management, Marketing Management/Strategy, and Social Media Innovation. Learn more about courses available in the Master of Science in Digital Marketing. Related Graduate Degrees Business Analytics MS Business Management MBA Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Innovation Strategy Organizational Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Chris Lind, senior associate director, is the point of contact for this program. Email: christopher.lind@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Analytics Student Association promotes analytics-related experiences that aid in the professional development of graduate students. These experiences are intended to hone students’ professional, technical and communication skills, as well as maintain a sense of community among students, faculty, alumni and industry leaders. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Fox Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, leadership and presentation skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to encourage, inspire and support students in pursuing their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations at Fox. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-DMKG-MS Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Digital Marketing MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info