COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Doctorate DoctorateElectrical Engineering and Computer Science All Programs College of Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in electrical engineering and computer science from Wichita State prepares students for research-oriented careers in several specialization areas. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how electrical engineering and computer science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission into the Ph.D. EECS program requires: A bachelor's or master’s degree, with a minimum GPA of 3.25 in electrical engineering, computer science or related field Official GRE General test scores Evidence of ability to carry out independent research and present it in written English is highly desirable Two letters of recommendation and a statement of purpose are encouraged For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program From music to patents, alum finds his career path A month after graduating with an electrical engineering degree, Geoff Winningham took a job in patent research and consulting. He never imagined his major in electrical engineering would lead him to a job working with patents, but an internship at WSU Ventures helped guide his career path. Curriculum Curriculum includes courses that cover all aspects of the field as well as in-depth study and research in chosen specialization areas. To earn the Ph.D., students must pass a comprehensive exam, a dissertation approval exam, final oral presentation and dissertation defense. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©