Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Education MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Education MM Apply Request More Info Music Education MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Music Education Develop your teaching skills, delve into research or further your music education in preparation for doctoral studies with a Master of Music in Music Education degree in Temple’s Boyer College of Music of Dance. The comprehensive graduate program—offered both online and in-person—is structured to help students gain a deeper understanding of advanced educational and music learning theories, key music education principles and effective practices, and research methodologies. Fully accredited by National Association of Schools of Music, National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education and the Pennsylvania Department of Education, this 30-credit degree provides opportunities for studies in music education practice and music education research. Through a rigorous course of study, students are prepared to seek permanent teaching certification in Pennsylvania, advance existing teaching careers, or apply to music education doctoral programs. Coursework hones knowledge of effective practices in music education throughout the lifespan; appropriate and effective measurement tools for use in music instructional programs and research; artistry in music and music teaching; contemporary theories in education and culturally responsive music teaching; and modern investigative techniques in music and music education. You may take up to six years to earn your master’s degree, and you can enroll on a part-time or full-time basis. Online Program Option You have the option to earn the Music Education MM entirely online. This flexible option allows you to study from home thanks to fully online coursework, earning your degree in a format that meets your personal and professional schedule. Students in the online Music Education MM work with internationally recognized Boyer faculty in all areas of music education. The online Music Education MM is open to all practicing music educators. The program may be completed in two years. Masters Plus Certification Option This program option is ideal for students who have an undergraduate degree in music and want to gain a Pennsylvania teaching licensure alongside a master's degree. Interested students can enroll in the Music Education MM and simultaneously complete an array of courses to prepare for teaching licensure. Designed for flexibility, certification coursework is customized based on the background and experience of each student, and constructed in consultation with the chair of the department. Coursework is delivered through a blend of in-person and online sessions. Applicants must have an undergraduate degree in music and at least a 3.0 GPA to be admitted. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music education faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music education degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Music Education MM program comprises core required courses, electives and a capstone experience. Required courses include Learning Theory in Music, Measurement and Evaluation in Music, Psychology of Music Learning & Behavior, Research in Music Education, and Thesis or Final Project. Learn more about requirements for the Music Education MM program. Related Graduate Degrees Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Theory MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2020–2021 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Online program option: $784 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Alison Reynolds is the chair of the Department of Music Education and Therapy. Phone: 215-204-1660 Email: alison.reynolds@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUED-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Education MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info