COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Blackboard-ready Freedom of Expression curriculum packet available The Office of Instructional Resources has partnered with other university offices to create freedom of expression curriculum packet available for use in any Blackboard course. The curriculum is entirely customizable and can be fit to different class needs. Learn More Add a Freedom of Expression unit to your class Section Menu Free Expression Home Our History 2021 Free Expression Resolution Free Expression Working Group Policies and Resources Free Speech FAQs Upcoming Events and Lectures Add a Freedom of Expression unit to your class KBOR Statement on Freedom of Expression Tools for Instructors The Office of Instructional Resources has partnered with other university offices to create freedom of expression curriculum packet available for use in any Blackboard course. The curriculum is entirely customizable and can be fit to different class needs. Wichita State University instructors can request that OIR upload this content directly into Blackboard course areas, and interested instructors from WSU Tech and other colleges and universities that use Blackboard will receive the Blackboard-ready curriculum as a .zip file via email. The freedom of expression curriculum packet has the following components: A suggested task list for students. Instructors can edit this for their own students to suit the needs of the particular course. An embedded, 4 minute animated video explaining the background of freedom of expression. A written lecture summary and attached PowerPoint lecture created by Wichita State University Associate General Counsel Kelly Herzik. A written lecture summary and a lecture outline created by Wichita State professor Dr. Abigail Devereaux. A short 8 question quiz covering the written lecture material and the animated video. An embedded version of the freedom of expression panel discussion that took place on March 31, 2021 at Wichita State. (Approximately 75 minutes) Suggested topics for classroom discussion. These are intended to be used in conjunction with the panel video. Suggested topics for classroom activities. These are intended to be "capstone" activities to be used in conjunction with both the readings and the panel discussion. Suggested readings provided by Associate General Counsel Herzik and by Dr. Devereaux, as well as a book recommendation that is ready for download directly from the University Libraries. Request this unit for your Blackboard Class OIR will install this content package into your class upon request. If you see this don't fill out this input box. Your Name* Your Email Address* Your Affiliation* Wichita State University WSU Tech Other College or University CoursesThe Office of Instructional Resources will upload this curriculum to your Wichita State University class(es). If you work for Wichita State University, please provide the course name and semester for each course you would like to have this curriculum added. If possible, please also provide CRN if available. If you do not work for Wichita State University, please leave this area blank. FeedbackIf you have feedback or questions about this process or the curriculum itself, please put those here.Form UUID Site Name Submit 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©