COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Summer Classes at WSU Section Menu Summer Classes Home Browse Summer Classes Summer Course Search Engine Summer Course Design Plans Current or Former WSU Student Enrollment Student Guest / Transfer Enrollment New Student Enrollment Summer Financial Aid Summer classes at Wichita State are a great option whether you are a WSU student or from another college. With four sessions in online and remote formats, you can reduce your fall workload without giving up your summer. Enrollment begins soon! Browse Summer Courses Enrollment Information Why take Summer Classes? Reduce your fall courseload while staying on track to graduate. Flexible two-, four- and eight-week sessions and hundreds of courses. Be better prepared to graduate in four years and start your career sooner. You can use financial aid* to pay for classes — plus parking is free! * Some exclusions apply; Go to the summer financial aid page for details. Featured Course Offerings For Summer 2022 we've expanded the number of course offerings to allow more students to benefit. Explore some of the options below. GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES Wichita State offers nearly 150 summer courses that satisfy WSU and Kansas Board of Regents Gen Ed requirements. Go to the summer course search engine and use the Attributes field to search for Gen Ed courses in your area of study. Search for Gen Ed courses COLLEGE OF APPLIED STUDIES WSU's College of Applied Studies offers 130 courses for Summer 2020, including: Increasing Student Engagement through Esports (CI 750BF) June 6-July 2 Designed for educators from all subject areas who would like to know more about esports and how it leads to improved learning outcomes within cross-curricular educational settings. Using the Gaming Concepts Curriculum, educators can use the high-interest platform of esports while teaching college and career ready standards as well as social-emotional skills. Browse Applied Studies courses BARTON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS WSU's Barton School of Business offers 75 courses for Summer 2020, including: Exploring the World of Business (BADM 100 ) June 6-July 29 Exploring the World of Business develops an appreciation for key foundational business concepts, gains familiarity with the major business disciplines, and forms a professional development plan. Students first learn about business innovation, how markets operate, entrepreneurial activities and socially responsible business decisions. They then explore each of the major business disciplines, in the context of an organization. Additionally, students are provided with the resources to develop a professional development plan. This is a Kansas Systemwide Transfer Course. Students from any college can take the course. Browse Business courses COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING WSU's College of Engineering offers 120 courses for Summer 2020, including: Cybersecurity Awareness (AC 121) June 6-July 29 The ability to secure information and systems within a modern enterprise in this modern globalized environment is a growing challenge. Ever-present human threats are global, persistent and increasingly sophisticated. Natural threats are unpredictable but inevitable. Vulnerabilities continue to be discovered and exploited with devastating impact. This course is designed to familiarize users with information, cyberspace and security principles needed to understand these threats. It addresses a range of topics, including information infrastructures, social engineering, information system exploitation techniques, and countermeasures to the threats discussed. Browse Engineering courses FAIRMOUNT COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS AND SCIENCES WSU's Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences offers 249 courses for Summer 2020, including: Magic, Witchcraft and Religion (ANTH 327 or REL 327) June 6-July 29 Online class examines various concepts concerning the realm of the supernatural as held by various peoples around the world. Relates such religious beliefs and the resultant practices to the larger patterns of cultural beliefs and behaviors. Introduction to Film Studies (COMM 321) June 6-July 29 General education humanities course. Emphasizes the nature and function of film as a mode of communication with attention to film theory and technical criticism. Selected films are shown in class. Oceanography (GEO 310) June 6-July 2 General education math and natural sciences course. Geologic origin of ocean basins and sea water; dynamics of waves, tides and currents; physical and chemical properties of sea water, diversity of life in the oceans, economic potential, law of the sea, and the effect of people on the marine environment. Browse liberal arts and sciences courses COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS WSU's College of Fine Arts offers 55 courses for Summer 2020, including: Avant-Garde Art, Film, Rock Music and Subcultures (FA 321) June 6-July 2 or July 5-29 General education fine arts course. Exploration of 20th century avant-garde art and film movements and their influence on late 20th century popular music, visual culture, and countercultures and subcultures such as mod, glam, punk, hacker, goth, rave and others. Required attendance at art exhibitions, film screenings, lectures . Browse Fine Arts courses COLLEGE OF HEALTH PROFESSIONS WSU's College of Health Professions offers 109 courses for Summer 2020, including: Introduction to Public Health (HP 105) June 6-July 29 General education math and natural sciences introductory course. An undergraduate introduction intended to develop an informed appreciation for the immense impact of public health on society. Topics include basic public health principles, philosophical foundations, key terms and concepts, historical contributions from the field, ethical bases, system organization, and an overview of the social, behavioral, environmental and biological factors that contribute to community health outcomes. Focuses on applying concepts to understanding local, state, national and global health problems in the 21st century. Browse Health Professions courses COLLEGE OF INNOVATION AND DESIGN WSU's College of Innovation and Design offers 3 courses for Summer 2020, including: Leadership Development for Innovation (ID 506) June 6-July 29 Examines what makes or breaks a great leader, not just in companies, but in life. Studies the six “C’s” of leadership: character, charisma, commitment, competence, communication and courage, and how each one can enhance or take away from leadership ability. Intended for students with diverse interests and nontechnical backgrounds. Search for College of Innovation and Design courses Enrollment begins April 4! Learn how to get enrolled Current/Former WSU Students College Guest/Transfer Students New Students WSU Summer Classes Calendar Presession May 23 Four-Week Session June 6-July 1 Eight-Week Session June 6-July 29 Four-Week Session July 5-July 29 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©