Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Jason Cook Jason Cook Vice President for Marketing and Communications and Chief Marketing Officer Jason Cook Vice President for Marketing and Communications and Chief Marketing Officer Mr. Jason D. Cook was appointed vice president for marketing and communications and chief marketing officer for Baylor University in December 2016. He has served as a communications and marketing executive in corporate, public service, athletic, and academic settings for more than 20 years. He provides strategic communications counsel to the board, president, and president’s council, and he leads the Division of Marketing and Communications, which directs the marketing, media, and electronic communications of the University and works closely with Baylor’s schools and administrative areas to advance University priorities and increase awareness of Baylor’s mission. Prior to joining Baylor, Mr. Cook served from 2013 to 2016 as senior associate athletics director for external affairs at Texas A&M University. He previously served as Texas A&M’s vice president for marketing and communications from 2008 to 2013, during which time he played a key role in the transition to the SEC in 2012 and the establishment of Texas A&M’s “one brand” approach. For his efforts, he was named the International Brand Master of the Year by the Educational Marketing Group. In addition, he served six years as assistant vice president of media and communications for Birmingham, Alabama-based HealthSouth Corp., a Fortune 500 company at the time. Mr. Cook received a bachelor’s degree in communications summa cum laude from Mississippi State University. He earned an accreditation in public relations from the Public Relations Society of America in 2000. He and his wife, Leann, have two teenage sons, Brayden and Jace. More Information Marketing and Communications Division Office of External Affairs Media and Public Relations Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor