Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Educational Leadership (MEd) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Ed Ldrshp & Higher Education In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Education in Educational Leadership program is intended for those who wish to work in leadership positions and administrative careers in education. The MEd program provides a theoretical and conceptual knowledge base and practical application required for principalship and for Florida Level I Educational Leadership certification. Courses required in the program address the Florida Educational Leadership Standards and the Florida Educational Leadership Examination (FELE) competencies and indicators. The Educational Leadership MEd program requires a minimum of 36 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 30 credit hours of core courses and 6 credit hours of required administrative internship. Courses may be taken in any sequence with the exception of EDA 6946, which must be taken during the last two semesters. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This Educational Leadership MEd program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Educational-Leadership-MEd.pdf. Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Summer November 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Adult Basic Education Manager Childcare Center Administrator Childcare Center Director Continuing Education Director Early Head Start Director Elementary School Principal Graduate School Dean Graduate Studies Dean Head Start Director High School Principal Junior High School Principal K-12 School Principal K-8 School Principal Middle School Principal Prekindergarten Program Coordinator Preschool Director Provost Secondary School Principal University Administrator University Dean Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Masters Educational Leadership (MEd) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Educational Leadership (MEd) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Education in Educational Leadership program is intended for those who wish to work in leadership positions and administrative careers in education. The MEd program provides a theoretical and conceptual knowledge base and practical application required for principalship and for Florida Level I Educational Leadership certification. Courses required in the program address the Florida Educational Leadership Standards and the Florida Educational Leadership Examination (FELE) competencies and indicators. The Educational Leadership MEd program requires a minimum of 36 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree, including 30 credit hours of core courses and 6 credit hours of required administrative internship. Courses may be taken in any sequence with the exception of EDA 6946, which must be taken during the last two semesters. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree This Educational Leadership MEd program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Educational-Leadership-MEd.pdf. Program Prerequisites Degree Requirements Core (Recommended that students take these courses in the following sequence:) 30 Total Credits Complete the following: EDA6061 - Organization and Administration of Schools (3) EDA6232 - Legal Aspects of School Operation (3) EDA6240 - Educational Financial Affairs (3) EDA6260 - Educational Systems Planning and Management (3) EDA6931 - Contemporary Issues in Educational Leadership (3) EDA6423 - Data-Based Decision Making for School Educational Leaders (3) EDS6123 - Educational Supervisory Practices I (3) EDS6130 - Educational Supervisory Practices II (3) EDA6300 - Community School Administration (3) EDA6502 - Organization and Administration of Instructional Programs (3) Internship 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: EDA6946 - Internship (1 - 99) The internship should be completed during or after the last two semesters of coursework listed above. Grand Total Credits: 36 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. A letter of recommendation from a principal or other administrator addressing your potential lead and instructional expertise. Last 3 years of effective or highly effective teaching evaluations. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Education Leadership MEd *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida