Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Take an interdisciplinary approach to the study of identity, power and privilege with the 12- credit Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Explore the cultural, economic and political factors that form the daily experiences of women and queer communities. Through the curriculum, you’ll engage in critical studies of gender and sexuality and their intersection with ability, class, gender and race in the U.S. Deepen your critical and analytical thinking skills with rigorous reading and writing coursework, and study the central institutions of gender, including family, sexuality and love, the ideology of femininity, and more. Designed for students in majors outside of the College of Liberal Arts, the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate can enrich your studies and help you form a pathway toward careers in gender, sexuality and women’s studies. Classes & Curriculum Students pursuing the 12-credit undergraduate certificate choose one of two Introduction to Gender Studies courses, complete the Field Work course and select two electives from a broad range of interdisciplinary courses focused on sexuality, race and diversity. Examples of available electives include the following. Gender in the Cinema Gender, Race, Class and the City LGBTQ Novels of the 21st Century Men and Masculinities Politics of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Certificates are awarded with the bachelor's degree. This certificate cannot be earned as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. Learn more about the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Sociology MA Urban Education MED Fieldwork in Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Take your learning experiences beyond the classroom and gain professional knowledge with the Field Work course. In this course, you’ll collaborate with faculty to identify an internship within a social advocacy organization aligned to your field of interest. A minimum of 7.5 hours per week is required for completion of the course, along with a final paper or project. Careers Program graduates acquire meaningful hands-on experience during their social advocacy fieldwork and broaden their perspective through identity-based coursework. Contemporary institutions and organizations committed to diversity and inclusion often seek employees qualified to lead in these areas. Understanding the ways in which gender and sexuality impact our world can benefit professionals in a variety of fields including business, education, law, medicine, nonprofit organizations, social work and the arts. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Rujuta Chincholkar-Mandelia is the undergraduate advisor for the Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-6953 Email: rujuta@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Undergraduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies, contact the following staff member. Stephanie Morawski is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-8516 Email: morawski@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Department. Barbara Thornbury is the director of the Department of Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies. Email: bthor@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GSWS-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info