Skip to content FacebookTwitterInstagramYouTube REQUEST INFO APPLY NOW LOGIN GIVE TODAY Search for: Search for: PROGRAMS Undergraduate Programs Gap Year Programs High School Programs Collaborative Programs Professional Training Request Information ADMISSIONS & AID Undergraduate Admissions & Aid High School Admissions & Aid Gap Year Admissions & Aid Information for Accepted Students Costs and Payment Contact Admissions SHIPS & CREW SSV Corwith Cramer SSV Robert C Seamans RV Westward 360 Ship Tour Voyage Schedule & Past Voyages Crew Health & Safety at SEA ACADEMICS & RESEARCH Courses, Credits & Syllabi Research Academic Schedule Our Faculty Affiliated Institutions Info for Faculty & Advisors K-12 Lesson Plans ALUMNI Alumni News & Events Elsaesser Fellowship Refer Someone to SEA Stay Connected Transcript & Sea Service Request Get Involved SEA’s Navigational Stars Awards SUPPORT SEA Launching Leaders Campaign Why Give to SEA Ways to Give Anchor Watch Planned Giving Give Online SEA Online Store Donor Privacy Policy Get Involved with SEA INFO Request Information – Students Request Information – Faculty and Advisors Digital Publications Info for Parents Info for Accepted Students Health & Safety at SEA ABOUT SEA 50th Anniversary Mission & History SEA Campus & Land Acknowledgement Diversity Leadership Employment Financial Information Latest News & Press Info Health & Safety at SEA SEA Store Contact Us BLOG Blogs from Corwith Cramer Blogs from Robert C. Seamans Search for: PROGRAMS Undergraduate Programs Gap Year Programs High School Programs Collaborative Programs Professional Training Request Information ADMISSIONS & AID Undergraduate Admissions & Aid High School Admissions & Aid Gap Year Admissions & Aid Information for Accepted Students Costs and Payment Contact Admissions SHIPS & CREW SSV Corwith Cramer SSV Robert C Seamans RV Westward 360 Ship Tour Voyage Schedule & Past Voyages Crew Health & Safety at SEA ACADEMICS & RESEARCH Courses, Credits & Syllabi Research Academic Schedule Our Faculty Affiliated Institutions Info for Faculty & Advisors K-12 Lesson Plans ALUMNI Alumni News & Events Elsaesser Fellowship Refer Someone to SEA Stay Connected Transcript & Sea Service Request Get Involved SEA’s Navigational Stars Awards SUPPORT SEA Launching Leaders Campaign Why Give to SEA Ways to Give Anchor Watch Planned Giving Give Online SEA Online Store Donor Privacy Policy Get Involved with SEA INFO Request Information – Students Request Information – Faculty and Advisors Digital Publications Info for Parents Info for Accepted Students Health & Safety at SEA ABOUT SEA 50th Anniversary Mission & History SEA Campus & Land Acknowledgement Diversity Leadership Employment Financial Information Latest News & Press Info Health & Safety at SEA SEA Store Contact Us BLOG Blogs from Corwith Cramer Blogs from Robert C. Seamans Apply & Login Give Today Programs Undergraduate Programs Gap Year Programs High School Programs Collaborative Programs Upcoming Training Classes Request Information Admissions and Aid Undergraduate Admissions Gap Year Admissions High School Admissions Information for Accepted Students Costs and Payment Contact Admissions Student Payment Request Information Ships and Crew SSV Corwith Cramer SSV Robert C Seamans RV Westward 360 Ship Tour Voyage Schedule & Past Voyages Crew Health & Safety at SEA Academics and Research Courses, Credits & Syllabi Research Academic Schedule Our Faculty Affiliated Institutions Information for Faculty & Advisors K-12 Lesson Plans Alumni Alumni News & Events Elsaesser Fellowship Stay Connected Transcript & Sea Service Request Get Involved with SEA Support SEA Launching Leaders Give Online Ways to Give Get Involved Donor Privacy Policy About Us SEA 50th Anniversary Mission & History SEA Campus & Land Acknowledgement Diversity Leadership Employment Awards & Recognition Financial Information Latest News & Press Kit Health & Safety at SEA COVID-19 Request Information Digital Publications SEA Store Blog Blogs from Robert C. Seamans Blogs from Corwith Cramer Search for: Sea Education Associationesheehan2022-05-20T15:35:28-05:00 Spaces still available for fall 2022 For undergraduate & gap year programs Find Your Program GIVE TODAY Undergraduate Real issues, real research. Learn more about our programs for all majors and find out which one is right for you! FIND OUT MORE Gap Year Explore upcoming programs designed specifically for gap year and winter start students. FIND OUT MORE High School Choose one of SEA’s high school summer programs – at sea, on shore in Woods Hole, or virtual. FIND OUT MORE Steering a Course for the Future Launching Leaders The campaign for SEA READ MORE SEA’s High School Summer Seminars Provide Online Portal to the Ocean World This summer, high school students interested in the world of ocean studies don’t have to travel to the oceanographic research hub of Woods Hole, Massachusetts. It’s coming to them. After a successful launch in 2020, SEA is offering an online program designed for high school students from around country – and the world – who share a passion for ocean science, want to make a difference through ocean conservation, and prepare for college at the same time. READ MORE >> 1972-2022 Celebrating 50 Years A look back at our history with reports, diary entries, photos, and videos that tell the story of SEA. READ MORE Sea Currents Blogs Reflections esheehan2022-05-31T16:09:15-05:00May 27, 2022| Read More Seasickness: An Ode to Adventure esheehan2022-05-26T10:09:09-05:00May 25, 2022| Read More A Whale of a Time esheehan2022-05-26T10:27:36-05:00May 24, 2022| Read More COVID-19 Updates From SEA Throughout the pandemic, SEA has continued to operate programs on campus as well as aboard both ships, with an emphasis on health and safety and through flexible responses to ever-evolving challenges. Read more about how we’re successfully delivering on our mission to educate ocean scholars, stewards, and leaders. READ MORE >> Latest News SEA to Host Marine Biodiversity & Conservation Symposium Doug Karlson2022-05-27T13:01:39-05:00May 27, 2022| Read More SEA Names Recipents of Navigational Star Awards Doug Karlson2022-05-09T10:32:31-05:00May 9, 2022| Read More Dr. Jeff Schell Receives Henry L. and Grace Doherty Chair of Ocean Studies Doug Karlson2022-04-19T14:33:47-05:00April 19, 2022| Read More Read More News FEATURED PROGRAM: Sustainability in Pacific Island Communities and Ecosystems FALL 2022: October 3, 2022 – December 23, 2022 FALL 2023: August 21, 2023 – November 15, 2023 Explore the pacific islands in this place-based and comparative environmental studies semester. Visit several South Pacific islands to confront challenging questions of colonial conflict, cultural identity, and environmental justice, and to examine relationships between political structures, culture, and the natural environment. MORE INFO Adventure with a purpose Sea Education Association is a world-renowned study abroad organization focused on the ocean. We are a global teaching, learning and research community dedicated to the exploration, understanding and stewardship of marine and maritime environments. Located in the oceanographic research hub of Woods Hole,Massachusetts, since 1971 we’ve educated more than 10,000 college, gap year, and high school students about the ocean. We’re dedicated to empowering students with life-changing sea voyages of scientific and cultural discovery, academic rigor, and personal growth. Our programs feature an interdisciplinary curriculum and dynamic leadership development experience at sea aboard tall ships and onshore. Step aboard our tall ships Corwith Cramer was designed specifically for SEA in 1987 in Bilbao, Spain. She is a 134-foot steel brigantine built as a research vessel for operation under sail. The qualities that made our original vessel R/V Westward both versatile and seaworthy were incorporated into the design of SSV Corwith Cramer. Robert C. Seamans is a 134-foot steel brigantine and is the most sophisticated oceanographic research/sailing school vessel ever built in the United States. Improvements in design and equipment, including a wet/dry laboratory and larger library, classroom, and computer laboratory, enhance the SEA academic program. WORLD CLASS FACILITIES We like to say we have three campuses: our shore facilities in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, and our two tall ship research vessels, the SSV Corwith Cramer and the SSV Robert C. Seamans. Environmental research All majors welcome Life & leadership skills No sailing experience necessary ABOUT SEA OUR MISSION SEA is a global teaching, learning and research community dedicated to the exploration, understanding and stewardship of marine and maritime environments. SEA empowers students with life-changing sea voyages of scientific and cultural discovery, academic rigor and personal growth. Our programs feature an interdisciplinary curriculum and dynamic leadership-development experience – at sea aboard tall ships and on shore. WHY SEA? The global ocean covers nearly three-quarters of Earth, yet 90% is largely unexplored. It provides half of the oxygen in the atmosphere, regulates the planet’s climate, and delivers food security for the world’s population. However, threats such as climate change, marine pollution, habitat loss, and overfishing jeopardize its health and sustainability. Humans depend upon the ocean. The future of the ocean depends upon you. SEA provides an experiential opportunity to gather firsthand knowledge that will influence students’ lifelong relationships with the ocean. As our society becomes more aware of how integral the oceans are to the planet, from climate patterns to energy production to the origins of life itself, we must also understand how to conserve these important resources. Moving beyond the textbook toward practical application, hands-on research, and personal experience, SEA prepares students to take a more active role in solving today’s environmental problems. OUR HISTORY SEA was founded in 1971 by a small group led by Corwith “Cory” Cramer, Jr. and Edward “Sandy” MacArthur. Cory was a leader, both in the world of the classroom and in the world of sailing, and a passionate advocate of learning by doing. Developing an understanding of the ocean and of its powerful role in the environment presented Cory with a unique challenge to which he formulated a unique response. OUR RESEARCH Undergraduate research is a cornerstone of SEA programs, with an emphasis on field-based study in the marine and social sciences. SEA faculty and staff are active in their respective fields through grant-funded research projects, participation in professional conferences, and publication in scholarly journals. Faculty encourage SEA Semester students to contribute new aspects to ongoing research or to develop their own avenues of inquiry, as they guide students through the entire research process from defining the scope of study to final presentation of their work. Many students continue their research upon return to their home institutions, using the field data collected at SEA as the basis of capstone or senior thesis projects. Others remain involved in the research they contributed to during their time at SEA and are subsequently invited as co-authors on presentations and publications resulting from their work. OUR ACADEMICS Each 12-week undergraduate SEA program offers 14-18 semester hour credits through Boston University, SEA’s school of record. The SEA undergraduate summer sessions offer between 7 and 11 semester hour credits, depending on the program. Program credit is issued either as direct credit from a student’s home institution (if affiliated with SEA) or as transfer credit from Boston University. Exactly how SEA credit transfers is ultimately up to each student’s home institution. Therefore, it is important that students work with their academic advisor to determine how the credit will best work for them. That being said, SEA enrolls students from a wide variety of colleges and universities each year, and almost all students are able to successfully transfer the full credit. Join Over 10,000 Students Enjoying SEA Voyages Become Part of Sea Education Association Today Sea Education Association 171 Woods Hole Road Falmouth MA 02540 (800) 552 – 3633 contact_us@sea.edu OUR PROGRAMS For Undergraduates For Gap Year Students For High School Students Crew Training ABOUT US Mission Our Ships Employment Research SUPPORT SEA Give Today Shop the SEA Store Get Involved Alumni Info © 2021 SEA EDUCATION ASSOCIATION | PRIVACY POLICY Page load link Go to Top