Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Outreach Community Programs Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach School of Medicine Wichita Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Outreach Community Programs KU School of Medicine-Wichita is proud to partner with community and state organizations to offer specialized programming for our community, state and beyond, from safe sleep initiatives for infants to worksite wellness to health care for those in need. Here are just some of our many community program and outreach efforts: Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival (CRIBS) The center provides program, research and implementation of best practices to eradicate preventable infant death in Kansas. Celebrate Day 366 We join forces with other organizations to help parents see their children celebrate birthdays beyond their first ones. Organized by faculty in our Department of Population Health, Celebrate Day 366 is part of a developing statewide initiative to reduce infant mortality among Black families. BabyTalk This free program, managed by our Department of Pediatrics and supported by the Kansas Department of Health & Environment, offers six classes and resources to women who are 32 weeks gestation or less. eMOMS Electronic Monitoring of Mom’s Schedule is an online program that supports health weight and breastfeeding after pregnancy. WorkWell KS We collaborate with work sites, including schools, hospitals and manufacturers, to implement wellness plans for a healthier Kansas. Kansas Covid Workgroup for Kids As important today as it was at the start of the pandemic, this group provides vital information for schools and communities on how to continue educating our students safely. KSKidsMAP This telehealth network helps provide mental health services across Kansas and is a partnership with the Kansas Department of Health & Environment. Kansas Project ADAM Community awareness on sudden cardiac arrest is the focus of this program, which is an affiliate of the national Project ADAM (Automated Defibrillators in Adam's Memory). Kansas Project ADAM aims to provide CPR training and Sudden Cardiac Arrest education, starting in local schools. Student Opportunities JayDoc Community Clinic Our medical students from varying disciplines provide quality care to those in need in the community, alongside faculty and volunteer faculty, and in collaboration with pharmacy and pre-medical students. The JayDoc Community Clinic is a partnership with Guadalupe Clinic in Wichita and includes homeless outreach and care. Doc for a Day Led by medical students in our Family Medicine Interest Group, each year KU School of Medicine-Wichita proudly hosts high school students from across the region, letting them experience what it's like to be a "Doc for a Day" and inspiring them to pursue a career in medicine. The Beat A great resource for students to connect with organizations, events and programs on our campus. Numerous student groups at KU School of Medicine-Wichita are dedicated to working in the community. Student Ambassadors Our students help promote our school by talking to undergraduates, giving campus tours and volunteering within our community. KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.