COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Help Desk SLA Section Menu HelpDesk Home Page Call HelpDesk Computer/Software Purchase Resources for Remote Work Student Resources Faculty Resources Frequently Asked Questions Mathematica WSU Help Desk SLA Disposal Procedure General Overview The purpose of this Service Level Agreement (SLA) is to document an expected level of support provided by the ITS Help Desk to individual faculty, staff, and students at Wichita State University. This SLA will be reviewed periodically, and evolve over time as there are changes in services or levels of support offered by the Help Desk. This SLA may be updated as services change and/or to account for staffing changes. 1. Service Description The Help Desk provides first-level technical support to all faculty, staff, and students of WSU in a professional, and informative manner. The Help Desk is dedicated to servicing the computer, and technology support needs of all users by providing detailed resolutions, and general system information for common problems. 2. Services The Help Desk provides first level support to all WSU students, faculty, staff, and guests. Help Desk services include, but are not limited to: Accounts & Access Wireless/Internet access Computer hardware Software installs Loaner equipment Printer setup / maintenance 3. Other Services not supported by ITS Help Desk 3.1 OneStop OneStop Website Academic Advising Undergraduate, Graduate, and International Admissions Adult Learning Blackboard / Technical Assistance Financial Aid Military and Veteran Services Online Learning Records and Registration Tuition, Fees, and Payments Parking and Shuttle Services 3.2 Media Resource Center Media Resource Center Website Academic Access and Accommodations Campus Media Services Classroom Technology Conference Room AV Equipment Live Event Media Zoom Technical Support & Licensing WSUTV and Video Services Web Services Instructional Design and Access Blackboard Panopto Zoom- Instructional Training Respondus Lockdown Browser and Monitor Respondus Test Builder 4.0 Online, hybrid, and in-person course design, building, and delivery Accessibility 4. Roles & Responsibilities Before contacting the Help Desk, users should explore help that is readily available. This help may be from the Information Technology Services Website or Help Desk Support Web page. If additional assistance is still needed users should contact the Help Desk through the various methods in the next section of this document. When contacting the Help Desk please provide the following information: Complete contact information (first and last name, date of birth, and myWSU ID number), including office or room number where assistance is needed. Device with which you are experiencing the issue and/or requesting assistance on. A clear, and specific description of the problem or request, including exact information from any error messages you may have received. If the user has been contacted by the Help Desk, and has not responded after three (3) attempts within a one (1) week period the ticket will be closed, and no further follow-up from HelpDesk will be made. The Help Desk can only service computer equipment that is owned by the University. The Help Desk cannot operate or service faculty, staff, or students’ personal computer equipment. 5. Requesting Service Online: www.wichita.edu/helpdesk or https://wichita.teamdynamix.com This is the recommended method. Submitting tickets through our support portal allows tickets to be routed quickly to the appropriate team within ITS. The knowledgebase inside the Support Portal has extensive help guides, and documentation on common problems; many of which can be resolved immediately following the applicable article. Email: helpdesk@wichita.edu Email requests will be processed during regular business hours. Phone: (316) 978-4357, Option 1. 6. Hours of Operation Standard Help Desk remote support: Monday – Friday, 8:00am – 6:00pm Saturday – 10am – 4pm In-Person support is available on campus by appointment: https://calendly.com/wsu-helpdesk/ Monday – Friday from 8:00 am – 12:00 pm & 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Jabara Hall Room 120 7. ITS Help Desk Support Levels Priority Levels Priorty Impact Definition Response Time Target Response Time 1 Critical A problem that affects the entire University community, or a large group of users. Within 1 hour Within 2 hours 2 High A problem that affects a group of users. Within 3 hours Within 8 hours 3 Medium A general service request, or problem with workaround solution. Within 8 hours Within 2 working days 4 Low A minor issue with limited effect on user. Work scheduled with user. Within 2 working days Within 5 working days 5 Planning A long-term project or service request Within 5 working days As planned Determination of Priority Levels Impact: The potential impact that an unresolved issue has on the ability of the University to continue operations or deliver its services. (Columns) Urgency: The speed that is considered appropriate to resolve an issue of a given impact. (Rows) Urgency Impact: High Impact: Medium Impact: Low High 1 2 3 Medium 2 3 4 Low 3 4 5 *Note: The Service Level Agreement resets when moved to a new Team. Questions? Contact Help Desk 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 helpdesk@wichita.edu Help Desk main page 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©