Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Request Info Scholarships Tuition & Fees Visit Campus Admissions at the University of Wyoming Future Students Begin Here APPLY The University of Wyoming welcomes students to experience a one-of-a-kind education in the heart of the Mountain West. Our beautiful campus is home to nearly 12,000 students each year, many from all parts of the country and from around the world. We have over 200 areas of study — all with personalized experiences and meaningful interactions with our faculty and your classmates. ARE YOU A RETURNING USER? Log in to an existing account to finish an application or check your status. LOG IN SELECT YOUR STUDENT TYPE For more information on admission requirements, financial aid opportunities and more, select the prospective student category that best describes you: UNDERGRADUATE FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS TRANSFER STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS GRADUATE STUDENTS Additional Student Categories We have many students who may be seeking admission to the University of Wyoming through an additional category or scenario. These include: Veteran Students Returning Students (previously enrolled & have taken more than one semester off) Second Bachelor's Degree Students Non-Degree Seeking Student High School Guests (seniors or juniors seeking college credit through UW) UW Casper Students UW Distance Students Learn more about each category's requirements and UW has to offer! LEARN MORE Already Admitted? Follow the next steps to confirm your enrollment and finish the process. NEXT STEPS UW Admissions Information REQUEST INFO The University of Wyoming strives to make obtaining your degree affordable and accessible. That’s why our undergraduate admission is on a “rolling basis”, meaning you can apply at any time for the upcoming semester. If you’re a first-year student, make sure to confirm your enrollment by May 1 in order to secure any financial aid awarded to you. Scholarships, Opportunities & Commitments Cost of Attendance Programs & Majors TAKE A VIRTUAL TOUR OF CAMPUS Virtual Tour More Questions? Ask us your questions and get connected with someone who can quickly assist you. You can also contact us at any time during our regular business hours. Living on Campus Nothing You Expected. Everything You've Dreamed. On-campus living is where you’ll make lifelong friendships and meet the people who will build the foundation of your support system throughout college. We have six residence halls with great views of campus and Laramie, Fraternity & Sorority Life housing along with three campus apartments with easy commuting options to your classes. HOUSING OPTIONS Take a virtual tour of our Residence Halls. View our campus apartment options and layouts. Check out what Fraternity & Sorority Life is all about. Life in Laramie The main University of Wyoming campus is nestled in Laramie, Wyoming which sits in the southeast end of Wyoming. Surrounded by National Forest, a state park and open spaces, Laramie has an upbeat and lively downtown, 17 designated parks and plazas in town, and plenty of things to do when you’re not in class. If you’re short on time, you can visit the many eateries and coffee shops on campus, have a picnic in the famous Prexy’s Pasture or hang out in The Union where you’ll find restaurants, gaming and much more. LEARN MORE We're Eager to Help Contact Us UW OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: +1-307-766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility