Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Alumni Week Menu Baylor Alumni Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor>Alumni Week>Access Event Videos>Academic Lunch & Learn Sessions>Louise Herrington School of Nursing Louise Herrington School of Nursing The Confluence of Human Trafficking and Health On Demand Video Available Now Spend your lunch break with the Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Dean Linda Plank, Ph.D., will share how LHSON’s students are supporting their community during the COVID-19 pandemic. Learn about the important work Jessica Peck, DNP, has done to become a leading voice in the fight against human trafficking. Support the Louise Herrington School of Nursing The Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing provides a competitively robust education through the integration of faith and academic excellence. We believe that nurses have been called to make a difference and we prepare our students within a Christian community, for professional practice, health care leadership, and worldwide service. We thank you for your interest in the mission and vision of Baylor University and invite you to make a gift to support student scholarships, faculty research and needs and priorities within the Louise Herrington School of Nursing today. Support the School About our Speakers Jessica L. Peck, DNP, APRN, CPNP-PC, CNE, CNL, FAANP, FAAN, Clinical Professor Jessica Peck, DNP, APRN, CPNP-PC, CNE, CNL, FAANP, FAAN, is a clinical professor at the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing. She uses a variety of strategies to teach her students in the classroom, online, lab, and clinical settings. She holds active national credentials as a Pediatric Nurse Practitioner, Nurse Educator, and Clinical Nurse Leader. Dr. Peck is a nationally recognized anti-human trafficking advocate, serving as lead medical consultant for Unbound Houston. She served as the founding chair of the Alliance for Children in Trafficking (ACT) and started the ACT Advocates grassroots advocacy program, training tens of thousands of nursing professionals at the local, state, national, and international level to respond to human trafficking in their communities. As a Pediatric Nurse Practitioner and devoted wife and mother of four, Dr. Peck has a special interest in educating and equipping families to promote positive physical, emotional, mental, social and spiritual health. Linda Plank, Ph.D., RN, NEA-BC, Dean, Louise Herrington School of Nursing Linda Plank, Ph.D., RN, NEA-BC, serves as the dean and clinical associate professor for the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Previously, she was the senior associate dean of Academic Affairs. Dr. Plank has taught as part of the LHSON faculty since 2009. Prior to her career in higher education, Dr. Plank served as a registered nurse for 33 years at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. She has taught in the undergraduate program, the accelerated FastBacc BSN Track and the graduate program. Courses taught included Management and Leadership, Consumer of Research, Health Assessment Lab, Nursing Informatics, Issues in Health Care and Practice, and Budgeting and Healthcare Finance for Nursing Leadership. General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Baylor Alumni Baylor Alumni Connect