Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center Events Calendar Special Programs Brand Story Workshops Columbia Community Business Program (CCBP) Cultivate Small Business Harlem Local Vendors Program (HLVP) Innovation Lab Pitch Workshops Small Business Counseling Request Counseling Appointments Workshops Business Financial Success Made Simple Entrepreneur Success Stories FAQs Resources Affiliates About the Team More Jump to main content Welcome The Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Corporation (SBDC) helps entrepreneurs build and grow their companies. Located within Columbia Business School, the center is committed to supporting the economic sustainability of New Yorkers—one business at a time. Working Together Unlike other small business assistance programs, we offer intensive one-on-one counseling to our clients, allowing us to truly build a strong relationship with them. We have thus cultivated a network of experts, mentors, and program alumni in all industries. The SBDC leverages the resources of Columbia Business School to give clients access to world-renowned faculty members, business students, and alumni business leaders. Since 2009 The Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center (CHSBDC) has been part of the community of Upper Manhattan since 2009. Funded partially by the United States Small Business Administration, the CHSBDC is one of 900 centers across the country that offer free business advice and workshops provided by qualified small business professionals to existing and future entrepreneurs. Contact Us David Geffen Hall 645 W. 130th Street (between Broadway and 12th Ave.) Phone: 212-853-7416 All visitors must be registered prior to accessing the center by center's staff. Please stop at the front desk for check-in and proceed on the elevator to the 2nd floor during business hours. We look forward to working with you! Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions