Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu ICEM 2019 About ICEM Registration Contact Us Memphis Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Welcome to Memphis, September 18-20 2019 Early Bird Registration now open! PreviousNext Take Action Registration Submissions Workshops Memphis Tours Follow Us Online Home ICEM 2019 The 2019 ICEM Conference has been cancelled. An alternate session with keynote speakers Hall Davidson & Mark West has been arranged for September 19th. For more questions, including cost and registration, email fedex@memphis.edu ICEM COMES TO MEMPHIS The FedEx Institute of Technology and the University of Memphis are pleased to welcome the International Council for Educational Media to Memphis for the 2019 Conference - September 18-20 in Memphis, Tennessee. This exciting conference is a celebration of educational media and technology as the world comes to Memphis. For four days we will celebrate the exciting innovations in education happening across the city, providing workshops on cutting edge technologies and best practices that are changing the landscape of engaging students. 2019 Theme - Emerging Innovations in Educational Media Emerging technologies are changing the landscape of educational media. From the introduction of virtual reality and augmented reality to the transformative capacity of big data analytics, the way we thinking about educational media is changing rapidly. For the 2019 ICEM we will explore the next phase of educational media by emphasizing the cutting edge of what's possible. The theme will focus on the new possibilities in hardware integrations, the forefront of sensor-based interactive classrooms, and the rapidly increasing opportunities for scaled interactive training throughout the world. Conference Schedule > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.