Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory CareerLAB Planning for Graduate & Pre-Professional School Planning for Graduate & Pre-Professional School Applying to graduate school for a masters or doctoral degree demands careful preparation during your time at Brown, and attention to the application timeline and process. In any field, it is essential to have a clear understanding of why you want a graduate education. You should spend time considering what programs and schools will be a good fit for you, what careers these programs and schools will prepare you for, and what the application process entails. Knowing what your goals are for continuing your education is vital. Graduate School Graduate school -- whether masters or doctoral -- takes time, energy and financial resources. Deciding to attend graduate school should not be used as a way to put off exploring and making decisions about different career paths, rather, it's time for focused study in a specific field you wish to enter. Masters programs are typically applied. Through classroom work and often field study, students learn specific skills directly applicable to the work world. After taking advanced classes, doctoral students begin independent research, culminating in a dissertation which makes a contribution to research in their area of study. Doctoral students often serve as teaching assistants at some time during their course of study. CareerLAB is a partner with The College in providing graduate school advising regarding the process, necessary documents, and timelines. Faculty should be consulted early on to get an understanding of differences between masters and doctoral study in your field, and for specifics about the focus of different programs. Get Started Review our Planning for Grad School Timeline Tip Sheet Interfolio: Credentials File Service for Letters of Recommendation. Pre-Professional Advising Pre-Professional Advising is a collaboration between The College and CareerLAB. We support students and recent alumni interested in education and careers in the Health Professions, Law and Business through dedicated web resources, publications, workshops, programs, group and individual advising. Get Started Thoroughly explore the website for the pre-professional track in which you are interested and attend our events and programs during the academic year to take full advantage of our support. Health Careers Advising Law Careers Advising Business Careers Advising Home Career Education Undergradate & Graduate Meet with a Counselor Peer Career Advisors Job/Internship & Career Resources Embark: 1st Years Graduate Students International Students Planning for Graduate & Pre-Professional School Recruiting BrownConnect About Us Academic Year Hours: Monday-Friday: 8:30am -5pm Peer Career Advisor Hours: Learn more here. Email: PeerCareerAdvisors @brown.edu Doctoral Candidates: Email: [email protected] Reserve an interview room Follow us: Subscribe to our Recruiting E-Newsletter Contact us: Box 1907 | 167 Angell Street | Providence, RI 02912 | 401.863.3326 | [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media like us on facebook follow us on twitter see what we're up to on instagram subscribe to our youtube channel Get Started Find a job or internship!