Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Cougar Line Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Summer Schedule The last day Cougar Line shuttles will run will be Friday, May 13. Service will resume Monday, Aug. 15. One shuttle bus will run between campus and UH at Sugar Land June 6-Aug. 12. It will operate Monday-Thursday from 7 a.m.- 10 p.m., and Fridays from 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Circulator Route Days of Operation: Monday-Friday Hours of Operation: 7 a.m.-7 p.m. Shuttle Stops: Go to the tracking maps, then click on the button for each route to see where the buses stop. Stops include the Student Center, Rec Center, Zone D, Bayou Oaks, Lot 8A, Lot 8B, Lot 9B, Zone F, Fleming Building, PGH Building, Elgin/Entrance 18, Elgin Street Garage, UH Law Center and Moore School of Music. Service: Shuttle buses will run a continuous route clockwise around campus and counter-clockwise. All buses are ADA accessible. Sugar Land Route Days of Operation: Monday-Friday Shuttle Stops: Student Center South / George Building at UH at Sugar Land Hours of Operation: 7 a.m.-10 p.m. Monday-Thursday; 7 a.m.-7 p.m. Fridays Service: A one-way trip is approximately 40 minutes. The bus will remain at each stop five minutes before departing. All buses are ADA accessible. Technology Bridge Days of Operation: Monday-Friday Hours of Operation: 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Shuttle Stops: Technology Bridge Building 9, PGH and Student Center South Service: The Technology Bridge Express use the Cougar Ride vans. Cougar Trax Shuttle Tracking Cougar Trax is a real-time GPS tracking system designed to show you when the next UH shuttle will be at a specific shuttle stop. Access Cougar Trax on the website or through the UH Go app. Advertise With Us Advertising space on the shuttle buses is rented on a monthly basis. Learn more. Lost and Found For lost and found inquiries, please email parking@uh.edu. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies