Skip to main content Logo for Cornell University and the ILR School The Cornell University logo seal and the ILR School logo placed side-by-side. Main navigation Toggle menu About ILR Who We Are About ILR Founding Faculty Alumni People at ILR Catherwood Library Faculty and Staff Resources Where We Are Cornell ILR in NYC Cornell in Buffalo Conference Centers News & Publications Research News ILR Review ILR Press Programs & Admissions Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Requirements Tuition and Aid Apply Graduate Programs Master of Industrial and Labor Relations (MILR) The Executive Master of Human Resource Management (EMHRM) Program Doctoral Program MILR / MBA Dual Degree Program Professional Education Professional Workshops, Courses, and Training Certificate Programs Senior Leader Programs Customized Professional Programs Current Students Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Student Support Career Services Consider Graduate Schools ILR Commencement Beyond the Classroom Student Research Research Fellowships International Opportunities Credit and Non-Credit Internships Student Organizations Academic Resources ILR Class Enrollment and Course Information Academic Policies Resources for Graduate Students Faculty & Research Our Faculty Faculty Academic Departments Areas of Expertise Our Research & Publications ILR Review ILR Press Centers & Institutes Conducting Research Student Research Catherwood Library Public Impact Leadership & Professional Training Senior Leader Programs Certificate Programs Professional Education Research & Insights Centers & Institutes ILR Press DigitalCommons@ILR Student Engagement Research Fellowships Credit and Non-Credit Internships Global Service Learning Alumni Make an Impact Giving to ILR Make a Gift ILRAA Alumni Association Alumni Chapters ILR Alumni Association Board of Directors Learn More About Alumni Alumni Profiles Groat and Alpern Awards Search Search Close Search Toggle Search Breadcrumb ILR Home New York City Since 1948, the ILR School has worked with NYC policymakers, businesses, worker organizations, not-for-profits, and community groups to improve the workplace. Today, we continue to provide educational services, research, and guidance for addressing employment challenges – including the new realities created by the COVID-19 pandemic – facing NYC, New York State, and the world. ILR in NYC Training and Education Research and Resources Student Interns ILR in NYC Stories See all ILR in NYC Blog Posts As part of the NYC community, the work and research of the ILR faculty, staff, and students focus on NYC workplace and employment issues. Check out some of our latest projects. The Promise of Social Equity in the Cannabis Industry Webinar recorded on Feb. 9, 2022 Discussion of the NYS Marijuana Regulation and Taxation Act and its social equity goals. Jan 19, 2022 The Promise of Social Equity in the Cannabis Industry Return to Work: NYC Human Rights Law & Reasonable Accommodations CLE Webinar on Dec. 9, 2021 Nov 19, 2021 Return to Work: NYC Human Rights Law & Reasonable Accommodations The Future of Real Estate in NYC Hear some of the most prominent voices in NYC real estate and labor discuss how government policy decisions over the coming months will have major impacts on the future of real estate. Nov 16, 2021 The Future of Real Estate in NYC Video: Palmer v Amazon A Case Study In A Pandemic Esta Bigler, from our Labor and Employment Law program, hosted a detailed panel discussion that explores the lawsuit Palmer v. Amazon, which covers the vital topics of health and safety at work in the time of COVID-19. Mar 24, 2021 Video: Palmer v Amazon A Case Study In A Pandemic Video: COVID-19: Permanent Impact on Public Sector Workforce Esta Bigler, director of ILR's Labor and Employment Law program, hosted a webinar to talk about workforce changes from the pandemic which will outlast immediate reopening. Mar 2, 2021 Video: COVID-19: Permanent Impact on Public Sector Workforce Collaboration With Weill ILR Associate Dean of Outreach Ariel Avgar is working with faculty at Weill Cornell Medicine to research the working conditions of low-wage frontline health care professionals in New York to assess the impact on patient care. Nov 19, 2020 Collaboration With Weill Return to Work: NYC Human Rights Law & Reasonable Accommodations CLE Webinar on Dec. 9, 2021 Nov 19, 2021 Return to Work: NYC Human Rights Law & Reasonable Accommodations Healthcare For NY’s Most Vulnerable During the Pandemic Scheinman's John August moderates a panel on ethical decision-making for patients, families, and doctors during the pandemic. Dec 15, 2021 Healthcare For NY’s Most Vulnerable During the Pandemic Training and Education ILR offers professional development education and a master's degree program for people and organizations in NYC. All of our programs are currently offered virtually. Follow the links to explore upcoming offerings. Professional Education Find out more about our professional education Find out more about our professional education Master of Professional Studies (MPS), NYC Find out about our MPS in NYC Find out about our MPS in NYC Research and Resources Read all posts about research and resources Make use of our resources These are available to the NYC community: Our faculty and their research Catherwood Library The Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation and Archives Title VII Consent Decrees Legal Repository ADA Cases Legal Repository The Northeast ADA Center To find out more, email ILRinNYC@cornell.edu Bob Hoyt ’96 Alex Colvin spoke with Bob Hoyt about the effects of the pandemic on financial services and banking firms. Nov 13, 2020 Bob Hoyt ’96 Use the School District COVID-19 Tracker to understand pandemic patterns Use the School District COVID-19 Tracker as an interactive mapping tool to understand the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on New York State. Nov 12, 2020 Use the School District COVID-19 Tracker to understand pandemic patterns Working with a Disability during COVID-19: Providing Additional Accommodations During the pandemic, both employers and employees may need to be more creative and flexible as they work together to respond to requests for altered or additional accommodations. Oct 12, 2020 Working with a Disability during COVID-19: Providing Additional Accommodations Student Interns ILR students work as interns and research fellows with organizations in NYC. Their projects and research provide organizations with valuable assistance, and the internships give ILR students critical real-life experiences for their future education and work life. For information on how to have ILR students work with you: Shadowing and Short-Term Projects ILR Career Services offers terrific opportunities for employers to support ILR students' career interests while increasing their brand presence on campus. See current short-term opportunities See current short-term opportunities ILR Credit Interns ILR Internships offer sponsors an opportunity to have students work for a full semester and earn credit. Learn how to request an ILR intern Learn how to request an ILR intern Footer News Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine Contact Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy Policy ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources Directory Centers & Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College Map For faculty and staff Web Accessibility Dean's Statements LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School