Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Career and Technical Education Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Career and Technical Education Major Apply Visit Request More Info Career and Technical Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Education in Career and Technical Education Earn Temple University’s Bachelor of Science in Education in Career and Technical Education to move your career from industry to the classroom. You will obtain the qualifications to teach in a variety of settings, from training centers and technical schools to elementary or secondary public schools. You’ll have the option to complete the Career and Technical Education Major with or without an optional concentration. Optional concentrations include two areas: Business, Computer and Information Technology Education or Marketing Education. Specialty coursework is accompanied by foundational courses that teach you to adapt curricula for English language learners; assess student progress; instruct students of all literacy and ability levels; and resolve conflict to create a safe classroom environment. You’ll earn a Temple degree through a combination of courses taken on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia and at off-campus locations or online. Serving eastern Pennsylvania, program faculty will come to you to review your instructional techniques and coach you in the latest teaching strategies. Concentrations This degree program can be completed with or without a concentration. Your concentration options include Business, Computer and Information Technology Education Study to prepare students in the business, computer and information technology occupational fields, and earn a certification to teach in Pennsylvania. Merge business, computer, and information technology education to cultivate a balanced view of education as a whole. View Concentration Details Marketing Education Prepare to teach marketing subjects to students in K–12 schools and at two-year colleges. Combine marketing, teaching and general education content to develop a balanced perspective of both marketing education and education as a whole. View Concentration Details Occupational Competency Assessment If you are pursuing the Career and Technical Education Major without a concentration, you must demonstrate valid expertise in your career and technical education skills area by successfully passing the Occupational Competency Assessment (OCA) exam. Get additional information about eligibility requirements and how to apply for the OCA exam or credential review. Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I or Career and Technical Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. You must receive Temple’s endorsement before you can take these exams. Students pursuing the BSEd in Career and Technical Education program without a concentration must also pass the OCA exam before they can receive their Certificate. 24 credits are earned toward the Career and Technical Education Major with the passage of the OCA exam. Contact advisors for the Bachelor of Science in Education in Career and Technical Education at cteadvising@temple.edu for more information on how to pay the fee and have credits added to your transcript. Related Graduate Degrees Career and Technical Education MEd Career and Technical Education MSEd Accomplished Teaching MSEd Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Facilities The College of Education and Human Development is primarily located in Ritter Hall, Ritter Hall Annex, and Weiss Hall on Temple's Main Campus. The campus’ North Philadelphia location is ideally suited to provide opportunities for students to engage with area schools, communities, government agencies, and for-profit and nonprofit organizations. Program Contact Elizabeth Diamond, associate professor in the Teaching and Learning Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Career and Technical Education Major. Phone: 215-204-6559 Email: ediamond@temple.edu Our Academic Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Certification The Career and Technical Education BSEd is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-CTE-BSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Career and Technical Education Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info