Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Career Resources Career Resources Expand all Collapse all The Networking Hour Connect with alumni professionals worldwide to find collaborators, build a professional network, share resources, and exchange career tips. Join us for our next Networking Hours: Digital Networking Hour: Wednesday, May 24, noon EDT Digital Networking Hour: Tuesday, June 14, noon EDT Columbia Career Coaches Network (CCCN) The CCCN is a fee-based service* of accredited professional alumni career coaches who want to help you reach your career goals. Meet the members of the Network, and read their helpful thought leadership. *Please note, fees differ based on each coach's practice, and are not set by the CAA. Please consult each coach for more information regarding their pricing structure. Thank you. Interested in joining the Network as an alumni volunteer? Only qualified full-time, accredited career coaches will be contacted. Apply here. CAA LinkedIn Connect with 60,000 alumni via the CAA LinkedIn group. Alumni Business Cards There are many reasons to be proud of being an alum. Realizing the value in being backed by the Columbia University name, the CAA offers an official business card for alumni who wish to share their pride and school affiliation in their networking endeavors. Unfortunately, this business card service is currently unavailable to alumni of Barnard College, Teachers College, and the Jewish Theological Seminary. At this time, business cards may only be shipped domestically within the United States via FedEx and must be delivered to a residential or office address (no P.O. Boxes allowed). Job Search Tools Use Convergence to research asset management firms that employ over 1 million people from different professional fields. Identify and network with potential employers or download reports with insights to prepare for an internship or job interview. FIRSTHAND offers information on jobs, careers, top employers and education programs, job search advice, and salaries. GoinGlobal provides career resources for 80 locations worldwide, including H1B visa employer listings, corporate profiles, and 600,000+ job and internship listings. School-Based Career Centers, Job Boards, and Coaching The CAA is dedicated to partnering with Schools across the University to help alumni move toward their career goals. Learn about resources available to you by visiting your School's alumni career center, and checking out your School's job board or career coaching resources. Career-related Articles CAREER The Turbocharged Job Search Playbook May 24, 2022 CAREER The ONLY Way To Convince Employers Your Skills Are Transferable When Changing Careers April 27, 2022 CAREER LinkedIn Value: The Most Powerful Online Tool for Serious Professionals April 12, 2022 CAREER Position Yourself For A Career Switch March 03, 2022 CAREER Career Planning For Age 50s, 60s And Beyond—5 Ways To Adapt Your Late-Career Strategy February 21, 2022 Hybrid work model CAREER Hybrid Work Is Here To Stay February 18, 2022 CAREER Impossible Hours? Unrelenting Demands? Five Uncommon Solutions For Burnout December 14, 2021 CAREER Combating Inflation Through Improved Employment Strategies November 10, 2021 CAREER 5 Ways Additional Training Can Help Your Career—And When It Doesn’t August 06, 2021 CAREER How to Turn Sensitivity Into a Superpower, According to a Human Behavior Professor May 24, 2021 CAREER Does A Good Job Mean You Have to Love Your Job? February 08, 2021 CAREER Exceptional Ways to Differentiate Qualifications for a Competitive Edge January 08, 2021 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close