× Home Policies Forms FAQ Glossary Record Retention Schedules Resources Records Managers Contact Us × SITES A-Z About USG University System of Georgia Board of Regents Chancellor Divisions Academic Affairs Administration Economic Development Government Affairs Internal Audit Strategy & Fiscal Affairs Policies Faculty and Staff Employment Staff Directory Contact Us Location Procurement Our Institutions Map and Information Institutional Directories Students Student Outcomes Current Students Free Speech / Censorship Concerns International Students Online Students Prospective Students Veterans and Service Members USG Vaccination Locator News & Reports Initiatives & Priorities Momentum Year Complete College Georgia College 2025 Know More. Borrow Less. Comprehensive Administrative Review Redesigned General Education Mental Health Initiative Strategic Plan 2024 Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Instagram GIVE Sub Menu Sub Menu University System of Georgia UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OF GEORGIA GIVE Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook Visit us on LinkedIn Visit us on Instagram SITES A-Z Main Menu Search Main Menu About USG University System of Georgia Board of Regents Chancellor Divisions Academic Affairs Administration Economic Development Government Affairs Internal Audit Strategy & Fiscal Affairs Policies Faculty and Staff Employment Staff Directory Contact Us Location Procurement Our Institutions Map and Information Institutional Directories Students Student Outcomes Current Students Free Speech / Censorship Concerns International Students Online Students Prospective Students Veterans and Service Members USG Vaccination Locator News & Reports Initiatives & Priorities Momentum Year Complete College Georgia College 2025 Know More. Borrow Less. Comprehensive Administrative Review Redesigned General Education Mental Health Initiative Strategic Plan 2024 UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OF GEORGIA Records Management and Archives University System of Georgia records retention policies and procedures Home Policies Forms FAQ Glossary Record Retention Schedules Resources Records Managers Contact Us USG Records Retention Schedules [ Print View ] « New Search CATEGORY: Student Records Total: 50 Sorted by title. Showing 25 per page. Academic Standing Reports Number: 0472-06-001 Description: This series documents student academic standing, including academic deficiency and the status changes of academically deficient students. Records may include: reports containing student names, grade point averages (GPA), grade point deficiencies, and numbers of previous suspensions and probations; student petitions for re-evaluation; report of student progress toward academic readmission/removal of probation status at other institutions; and academic honors and awards. Retention: 5 years. Admission Program Records Number: 0472-06-002 Description: This series provides summary information relating to student admission programs that may be used for control, planning, or review. Retention: Final reports: PERMANENT; All other records: 5 years. Alumni and Alumni Associations Records Number: 0472-06-003 Description: This series documents the activities of alumni and alumni groups. Retention: Programs, agendas, minutes, bylaws, and reports: PERMANENT; mailing lists, data cards and files for individual alumni, and membership directories: Until superseded; All other records: 5 years. Athletic Scholarship and Grant-in-Aid Award Records Number: 0472-06-004 Description: This series is used to provide athletic departments with information pertaining to player eligibility and receipt of financial aid in the form of scholarships to monitor accounts, and to assist in complying with NCAA, NAIA, and conference rules and regulations. These records include: squad lists; conference eligibility reports; team roster update sheets; scholarship count sheets; applications; nominee lists; eligibility questionnaires; eligibility reports; and credit voucher request sheets. Retention: NCAA records: 10 years; All other records: 5 years. Class Gift Records Number: 0472-06-005 Description: This series provides a record of gifts given to the institution by classes. Retention: PERMANENT. College Department Student Files Number: 0472-06-006 Description: This file contains documents related to the college's process of graduation certification. Included are checklist for graduation, grade reports, student academic records, official change of grade forms, official request forms for permission to change colleges within the university system, and letters of reference. Retention: 5 years after graduation or date of last enrollment. Commencement Records Number: 0472-06-007 Description: This series documents commencement program planning and implementation at the institution. Retention: 1 Commencement Program: PERMANENT; All other records: Useful life. Course and Class Records Number: 0472-06-008 Description: This series provides instructional units with an official record of students enrolled in courses taught and documents test scores and semester end grades of each student. Retention: Permanent. Credit Bureau Reports Number: 0472-06-009 Description: This series documents holders of student loans that have been reported to credit bureaus. Retention: 2 years after collected or deemed uncollectible. Diploma Mailing Verification Records Number: 0472-06-010 Description: This series documents students' requests to have diplomas and other graduation records distributed to specific addresses. Retention: 1 year. Enrollment Reports Number: 0472-06-011 Description: This series is used to provide the President's office with a record of enrollments which may be used for planning and research. Information contained in the reports includes student names and levels, grade point averages, demographic data, and academic majors. Retention: Final reports: PERMANENT; All other records: 2 years. Examinations, Tests, Term Papers, Homework Records, and Grade Books Number: 0472-06-012 Description: This series documents student subject mastery in institution courses. Records may include but are not limited to: examinations and answers; quizzes and answers; homework assignments; course papers; term papers; essay assignments; and grade books. This series does not include graduate student qualifying or comprehensive examinations. Retention: Uncontested grade results: 1 term after completion; Contested grade results: Until resolved, whichever is longer. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Documents Number: 0472-06-013 Description: This series documents the process of student information release requests and consent authorizations or denials in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Records may include but are not limited to: requests for formal hearings; requests for release of personally identifiable information; records of disclosures made to third parties; student statements regarding hearing panel decisions; written decisions of the hearing panel; written consent of the student to disclose records; and waivers for rights of access. Retention: Life of the affected record. Federal Title IV Institutional Records Number: 0472-06-014 Description: Records document an institution's eligibility to participate in and its administration of Federal Title IV programs, including Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL), Direct Loan, Federal Perkins Loan, and Nursing Loan. Records include: Institutional Program Participation Agreement; recertification; education program eligibility; accreditation reviews and reports; state agency reports; audits and program reviews and consortia agreements between and among schools. Retention: 7 years after expiration of agreement. Federal Title IV Student Loan Records Number: 0472-06-015 Description: This series document student eligibility for and administration of individual student loans under the Federal Title IV Aid Programs, including Federal Family Loan (FFEL), Direct Loan, Federal Perkins Loan, and Nursing Loan. Records may include but are not limited to: eligibility records (student and/or parent); applications; disbursement records; promissory notes; Student Status Confirmation Reports (SSCR); repayment schedules; statements of rights and responsibilities; documentation of all professional judgments decisions; financial aid history information; documentation of student's satisfactory academic progress. Retention: Records relating to a borrower's eligibility: 5 years after the end of the award year in which the student last attended the institution; Records relating to administration of the loan: 5 years after the end of the award year in which aid was awarded and dispersed; Fiscal Operations Report, Application to Participate and supporting documentation: 5 years after the end of the award year in which the FISAP is submitted. Borrower's Loan Records: 5 years after loan repayment, debt cancellation, or assignment to the U.S. Department of Education. All other records: 5 years after the end of the award year in which the records are submitted. Fraternity and Sorority Membership Records Number: 0476-06-016 Description: This series documents personal information on each organization member. Retention: 5 years after last enrollment. Grade Change Reports Number: 0472-06-017 Description: This series documents grade changes submitted by instructors through the academic departments to the registrar. Retention: 5 years after record creation. Graduate Student Tuition Remission Records Number: 0472-06-018 Description: This series documents the remission of tuition for courses taken by eligible graduate students, such as research and/or teaching assistants. Retention: 8 years. Graduate Students Denied Admission/No Show Records Number: 0472-06-019 Description: This series documents the application and evaluation process for students applying to enter an instructional unit's academic graduate program who are denied admission or who were admitted but failed to enroll or withdrew. Records may include but are not limited to: applications for admission to graduate school forms; departmental action forms; standardized examination reports; foreign student financial documentation; departmental or college supplemental application forms; departmental or college student application status reports; letters of recommendation; resumes; and transcripts. Retention: 3 years after application term International Student Records Number: 0472-06-020 Description: This series documents institution assistance to international students who have applied for admission to academic programs. These records primarily concern institution admissions, immigration issues, and other non-academic matters. Records may include but are not limited to: letters of inquiry from prospective students; official replies to inquiries; copies of visas; scholarship information; institution admissions forms; graduate school applications; transcripts of previous college work; grade reports of prior college work; grade reports from institutional courses; international student advisors' notes; degree completion certificates; explanations for student withdrawals; and recommendations and evaluations of students. Retention: 5 years after graduation or date of last attendance but at least 1 year after final notice to Immigration and Naturalization Service; Non-admitted applicant records: 2 years. Internship Program Records Number: 0472-06-021 Description: This series is used to provide a record of the administration of student internship, practicum, and cooperative education programs. Records may include but are not limited to: applications for internships internal and external to the institution; agreements with departments; postings/notices; student resumes; transcripts; copies of contracts; and proposed institution listings. Retention: 5 years. Minority Scholars Program Records Number: 0472-06-022 Description: This series documents the application, selection, and progress of students belonging to various minority groups who apply for minority scholarships. This series may contain but is not limited to: applications; candidate selection information; academic and personal information about applicants; notifications of award; notifications of denial of award; applicants letters of decline; and notifications of transfer to another institution. Retention: 5 years after award notification. Month-to-Month Transaction Reports Number: 0472-06-023 Description: This series documents student loan activity on a monthly basis by transaction type. Retention: 2 years. National Testing Records Number: 0472-06-024 Description: This series provides a record of the services rendered to clients by administering tests required of students seeking admission to various programs or seeking to substitute already acquired knowledge for formal college courses. Records may include but are not limited to: testing rules and regulations; rosters of test takers; seating charts; supervisors' reports; and vouchers for payment of testing. This series does not include test scores. Retention: 3 years after testing date. Pell Grant Reports Number: 0472-06-025 Description: This series consists of copies of summary reports submitted to the Pell Grant Scholarship program on a routine basis. Reports summarize money awarded, received and disbursed, the balance remaining, and dates. Retention: 5 years after audit. 1 2 Next » ↑ Top CONTACT 270 Washington Street, S.W. Atlanta, GA 30334 U.S.A. WEBSITE INFORMATION Privacy Policy Accessibility Compliance & Ethics Reporting ETHICS & COMPLIANCE REPORTING Report Ethical Concerns Report Free Speech and Censorship Concerns USG INSTITUTIONS Map & Information Institutional Directories INFORMATION FOR: Current Students Prospective Students International Students Online Students Veterans and Service Members Faculty and Staff USG Retiree Benefits Vendors & Suppliers POLICIES & REPORTS University System of Georgia Policies NEED HELP? Human Trafficking Notice DIVISIONS Academic Affairs Administration Economic Development Internal Audit Strategy & Fiscal Affairs ABOUT University System of Georgia Board of Regents Chancellor Campus Consolidations Comprehensive Administrative Review Newsroom Employment Staff Directory Contact Us Open Records Requests Location UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OF GEORGIA © Copyright 2022. All Rights Reserved. USG SITES A-Z 15 to Finish Academic Affairs and Policy Academic & Student Affairs Handbook Academic Common Market Academic Programs Advisory Committees Affordable Learning Georgia African-American Male Initiative Board of Regents Board of Regents Policy Manual Branding Guidelines Business Procedures Manual Campus Consolidations Center for Leadership Excellence Chancellor's Office Communications Community Relations Comprehensive Administrative Review Curriculum Cybersecurity Data Services Economic Development Faculty Affairs Faculty Council Faculty Development Fiscal Affairs GAtracs Georgia Archives Georgia Film Academy GeorgiaBEST GeorgiaFIRST Georgia E-rate Services Georgia ONmyLINE GeorgiaVIEW Georgia WebMBA GIL Users Group Meeting Governmental Affairs Human Resources Information Officers Council Information Technology Handbook Information Technology Services Institutions Internal Audit International Education ITS Customer Services Legal Affairs Newsroom Organizational Effectiveness PeachNet Policies and Reports Procurement Real Estate and Facilities Records Management Research and Policy Analysis Safety and Security Service Excellence Shared Services Center Staff Council Strategic Academic Initiatives Student Affairs Tobacco Free University System of Georgia USG Diversity Summit USG Faculty and Staff Portal USG Foundation USG Services Status USG Technology Store Veteran to Nurse Educator Fellowship Well-being × This website uses cookies. Find out more in our Privacy Policy at https://www.usg.edu/siteinfo/web_privacy_policy. Questions, please email gdpr@usg.edu. OK