Skip Navigation Iowa State University ISU Extension and Outreach Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture Contact Us Alternative Agriculture Homepage Alternative Grain Crops Alternative Crop Rotations Alternative Crop Production Cover Crops Economics of Alternative Crops/Rotations Forage Crops and Livestock Organic Agriculture Policies and Government Support for Alternative Systems Processing Alternative Crops/Grain Quality Horticultural Crops Local Foods Alternative Systems and Environmental Quality Equipment Small Farms Newsletter Calendar of Events The Alternative Agriculture in Iowa website is designed to assist producers, processors, marketers, business owners, policy makers, researchers and the general public with information on alternatives to Iowa's traditional crops (corn and soybeans). The website provides useful resources for anyone interested in becoming more diversified, profitable, and environmentally responsible, with peer-reviewed material from contributing departments including Agronomy and Horticulture (alternative crops), Economics (farm management and profitability), Animal Science (alternative livestock and forages), Organic Agriculture (crops and livestock), Economic Development (value-added ag), and Natural Resource Management (environmental considerations). Downloadable information includes publications, articles, and videos, ranging from alternative crops, crop rotations and environmental quality to policies and standards, management and marketing techniques. In the News Livestock Production and Conservation Policy Mark Rasmussen, Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture pptx presentation at the "Sustaining our Iowa Land (SOIL)" Conference, Drake University, Des Moines, IA, November 19, 2015 Upcoming Events April-May, 2022 Iowa Learning Farm Conservation Webinars Wednesdays, 12pm April 7 and 21, 2022 Advanced Grain Marketing for Women View more events Sites Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture A research and education center that studies environmental and social problems caused from agriculture development. Subjects of research include, ecological systems, marketing and food systems, policy making and alternative farming systems. Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Value Added Agriculture Program The ISUEO Value Added Agriculture program has several resources that focus on high value or specialty agricultural practices. The site has several various categories of resources including marketing, business development, local foods, high tunnel production and food entrepreneurial resources. The site also includes resources for renewable energy. AgMRC (Agricultural Marketing Resource Center) The Agricultural Marketing Resource Center provides several livestock and crop profiles and resources for producers looking to add value through Organic Agriculture to their organic farming operations. Organic Agriculture Program Our mission is to educate producers, consumers and policy makers in the research and extension activities in Organic Agriculture both on-farm and in the Universities. ISU operates an Organic Agriculture Program to provide research information and extension presentations for Iowa citizens. Field Days, workshops and an ICN series on organics are held throughout the year. ATTRA-National Sustainable Agriculture Information Service Website contains information for first time farmers, energy alternatives, local foods, organic farming, pest management and more. Minnesota Institute for Sustainable Agriculture MISA is a University of Minnesota partner program that contains information related to farming workshops, conferences, research and more. Center for Integrated Agricultural Systems (University of Wisconsin) CIAS is a research center focusing on farming systems and their connection to economics, natural resources and people. Alternative Agriculture, Dr. Kathleen Delate, Depts. of Agronomy/Horticulture, 106 Horticulture Hall, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011, kdelate@iastate.edu, Phone: 515-294-7069, Fax: 515-294-0730. Copyright © 1995-2013, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.