Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Veterans Resource Center Main Navigation Future Students Education Benefits / Advising Programs and Services Jobs for Veterans About Us Scholarships Newsletter Events FAQs Forms Contact Us 2022 Scholarships All applications must be submitted to Veterans Resource Center (VRC) at troamorales@fullerton.edu . Application for Veteran Scholarship for Success and OCRE Veterans Initiative Scholarship - Submit to VRC by 11:59 pm April 11, 2022 Application for MUFG Union Bank Scholarship (Veterans/Military) - Submit to VRC by 11:59 pm April 11, 2022 Application for Vets and Cadets Endowed Scholarship - CLOSED Application for Maribel Ramos Memorial Scholarship (Family of Vets/Military) - Submit to VRC by 11:59 pm April 11, 2022 VETERAN Success scholarship Initiated by CSUF veteran alumni and supported by campus and community donors to foster academic success. Active members of the Student Veterans Association will be given priority consideration for this scholarship, but membership is not required. Requirements: U.S. military veteran Demonstrate financial need Currently enrolled and will be attending CSUF in the fall semester Will be taking a minimum of 6 units Must be in good academic standing (minimum 3.0 GPA) Must attend the Veterans Appreciation Night for the award announcement *Active members of the Student Veterans Association will be given priority consideration for this scholarship Amount Deadline Scholarship Details Twenty-five (25) scholarships will be awarded $2,500 each. 11:59 PM on Monday, April 11, 2022 Submit the following documents: Completed Application Two (2) recommendation forms from a professor, academic adviser and/or supervisor (recommended, but not mandatory) Titan Degree Audit (TDA) Copy of financial aid award (if applicable) Personal statement (1-2 pages) outlining: Military experience Educational and career goals Financial need How this scholarship will impact your educational outcome (i.e. retention, GPA, graduation) Orange County Veterans INITIATIVE SCHOLARSHIP Funded through a partnership with the Orange County Community Foundation to enhance the Veterans Resource Center’s commitment to serving and supporting our student veterans’ educational goals. Preference points will be given to students who have exhausted or are near exhaustion of VA education benefits for this scholarship, but those on benefits are eligible to apply. Requirements: U.S. military veteran Demonstrate financial need Currently enrolled and will be attending CSUF in the fall semester Will be taking a minimum of 6 units Contractual agreement and follow up with a professional staff member is required after scholarship has been awarded Scholarship recipients will be publicly announced at the Veterans Appreciation Night; recipients do not need to attend to receive the scholarship. *Preference points will be given to students who have exhausted or are near exhaustion of VA education benefits for this scholarship Amount Deadline Scholarship Details Ten (10) scholarship recipients will be awarded $2,000 each. 11:59 PM on Monday, April 11, 2022. Submit the following documents: Same application as Veteran Scholarship for Success Maribel Ramos Memorial Scholarship for Family Members of Veterans Maribel was a CSUF student veteran and an active Student Veterans Association member who received her degree in Criminal Justice posthumously. In her memory, this scholarship was established in support of family members. Maribel was committed to her education and stressed the importance and value of education in her family. It is a great honor to remember her with this scholarship as we continue to expand our services that support family members of veterans. Two (2) students will be awarded $500 each. Requirements: Family member of a veteran, reservist, or active duty service member Currently enrolled and will be attending CSUF in the fall semester Will be taking a minimum of 6 units Must attend Veterans Appreciation Night for the award announcement Amount Deadline Scholarship Details Two (2) scholarship recipients will be awarded $500 each. 5:00 PM Friday, April 2nd, 2021. Submit the following documents: Completed Application One (1) recommendation form from a family member, friend, advisor, employer, or faculty member (recommended, but not mandatory) Unofficial transcript or Titan Degree Audit (TDA) Copy of financial aid award (if applicable) Personal statement (1-2 pages) outlining: Why you are applying for this scholarship MUFG union bank scholarship Sponsored by MUFG Union Bank to provide academic support for CSUF Student Veterans. All scholarship recipients will have the opportunity to receive mentorship from MUFG Union Bank’s network of veteran employees. Applicants must be currently enrolled and in good academic standing in an undergraduate or graduate program in accounting, finance, human resources, management, marketing, international business, and/or information technology management. Eligibility: Applicants can be of any military status (including current Active Duty, Reserve, Guard, and Honorably Discharged) and must provide a Military ID or DD214 as proof of service. Applicant must be currently enrolled in the undergraduate or graduate programs at CSUF with estimated graduation dates of Dec 2021, May 2022, or July 2022. Applicant can be pursuing any degree in any field. However, special consideration will be given to those pursuing degrees in accounting, finance, human resources, management, marketing, international business, and/or information technology management. Applicant shall have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2. Amount Deadline Scholarship Details Five (5) scholarships will be awarded for $2,500 each to business, marketing, or technology related majors. 5:00 PM Friday, April 2nd, 2021. Submit the following documents: Completed Application Titan Degree Audit (TDA) Financial Aid Award from Titan Online Personal statement (Max 500 words) outlining: Short essay describing applicant’s commitment to making a positive impact in their community, any professional experience, challenges they handled or yet to overcome, and anything else they would like to share about their life. Vets and Cadets Endowed Scholarship Award Scholarship awards are open to new and continuing CSUF students who are pursuing an undergraduate or a graduate degree and are serving, or have honorably served, in any branch of the U.S. armed forces, including as a cadet in ROTC. Qualifying students will be considered, regardless of benefits received from the GI Bill. The award amount for this scholarship ranges from $500 to $2000. See full scholarship details and application process. Application deadline is TBD This site is maintained by Veterans Resource Center. Last Published 4/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact veterans@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.