Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Degree Programs Admissions Admissions Introduction to GSAS Admissions The global COVID-19 pandemic of 2020 presented institutions of higher education with challenges in teaching and learning, as well as in the assessment of academic performance. As a consequence of these challenges, Columbia University affirms the following principle: The University’s graduate and professional schools, as well as their respective admissions committees, will take into account the important disruptions caused by the COVID-19 outbreak when reviewing student transcripts and other admissions materials as part of their customary practice of performing holistic reviews of individual applications or dossiers. Specifically, we will respect decisions made by institutions or individuals regarding the adoption of Pass/Fail or similar grading options during the period in question. The Provost and University Deans adopted this principle to ensure that no applicants are disadvantaged by policy decisions made by their colleges/universities as a result of this unprecedented public health event. Read More The 2022 application is now open APPLY Key Contacts Office of Admissions 107 Low Library, MC 4303 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-6729 [email protected] Before contacting the GSAS Office of Admissions, please first read our Frequently Asked Questions page. Faculty contacts for each program may be viewed by following the links on the MA Programs, PhD Programs, and Dual-Degree & Certificate Programs pages. Admissions Toolkit For Prospective Students Admissions Supporting Materials Read detailed instructions regarding letters of recommendation, transcripts, and standardized tests. Application Fee A nonrefundable fee of $120 will be required for the 2022 online application. Non-Degree Special Students and Visiting PhD Scholars In select instances, students may be permitted to register as Exchange Scholars, International Exchange Scholars, Non-Degree Special International Students, or Visiting PhD Scholars. Frequently Asked Questions View useful information about application policies and procedures, the application fee, standardized tests, supporting materials, and more. Admissions Deadlines See the fall, spring, and summer deadlines for select MA, PhD, and dual-degree programs. Credentials Verification Columbia University requires all incoming students to complete a credentials verification process before enrollment. The process includes verification of letters of reference and of all post-secondary transcripts and degrees awarded. Transfer Credit Transfer credit is relevant coursework completed before a student’s enrollment in a GSAS degree program that the student submits in partial fulfillment of specific academic requirements for the degree. BA/MA Option Current Columbia undergraduates may apply to receive a deferred admission decision to the MA program of their choice during their junior or senior year. Information for International Applicants The Graduate School welcomes applications for admission from international applicants. We encourage all international applicants to submit their admissions application as early as possible to allow enough time to process their applications. For Admitted Students New Student Guide Congratulations on your acceptance, and welcome to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences! Credentials Verification Columbia University requires all incoming students to complete a credentials verification process before enrollment. The process includes verification of letters of reference and of all post-secondary transcripts and degrees awarded. New Student Checklist Will you be starting your studies at GSAS this fall? After you have accepted the offer of admission, be sure to complete this checklist to begin your transition to Columbia. Frequently Asked Questions for New Students FAQs Information for Admitted International Students The ISSO coordinates services for the international students, scholars, interns, and family members who come to Columbia. Tuition Deposit Upon accepting the offer of admission, MA students are required to submit a non-refundable tuition deposit. Deferrals If extraordinary circumstances will prevent you from matriculating, you may submit a request to defer your enrollment. Housing View detailed information about housing for MA and PhD students, as well as additional housing resources. Billing and Payments Students are billed for tuition, fees, and other charges at the start of each term. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close