Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biology MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biology MA Apply Request More Info Biology MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Biology The Master of Arts in Biology in the College of Science and Technology at Temple emphasizes contemporary coursework for students to gain advanced understanding within the field of modern biology. Students are prepared for professional schools or careers in fields related to the biological sciences. The Biology MA is a part-time or full-time graduate program, and it is tailored for students seeking graduate studies in the biological sciences without experimental research in labs. Compared to the Biology MS, the Biology MA program focuses primarily on coursework and independent research and helps you form expertise in one or more areas of biology, such as molecular biology and genetics, among others. As a result of the curriculum's emphasis on coursework, you’ll develop the analytical thinking skills necessary for biological research and literature review. Interdisciplinary coursework includes cellular, developmental and molecular biology; cellular and molecular neuroscience; ecology and integrative biology; and evolutionary genomics. All Biology MA students produce a written, nonresearch literature thesis in the final year of the master’s program. You’ll become proficient in researching, investigating and interpreting primary scientific literature. Graduates are able to write authoritative, critical and in-depth scientific reviews. Although much of your time in the Biology MA program will be spent in class, you’ll have access to the Department of Biology’s centers and institutes, including the Center for Biodiversity, the Institute for Contemporary Molecular Science and the Sbarro Health Research Organization. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s centers, facilities and institutes. Program Requirements To earn the Biology MA, students must successfully complete the degree’s culminating event, which is the master’s nonresearch literature thesis. This is an original research study that presents a problem in the biological sciences based on a rigorous review of literature in the biological sciences, as well as demonstrates a student’s advanced knowledge of research methods and mastery of the primary area of interest. Classes & Curriculum The Biology MA program is full time, and students are required to complete 30 credit hours of coursework in addition to their nonresearch literature thesis to earn a degree. The typical time for completion is two years. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus, where the biology labs and facilities are located. Classes are a blend of elective and seminar courses, some of which include Biotechnology, Conservation Biology, Developmental Genetics, Genomics in Medicine, Molecular Biology and Systems Neuroscience. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biology MS Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Scientific Writing PSM Bioengineering PhD* *College of Engineering Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. There are two graduate advisors for the Department of Biology. Richard Waring is a professor and the graduate chair in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Sandhya Verma is the graduate administrator in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8854 Email: sandhya.verma@temple.edu Program Contact Richard Waring is the faculty contact for the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Student Clubs and Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOL-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Biology MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info