Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityResearch and Innovation Research and Innovation About About Our Office Contact Us Events and News Internal Funding The Explorer Challenge About The Explorer Challenge Process and Timeline Submit Final Proposal Past Awardees Students Brewed Ideas Challenge The Dorm Fund The President's Challenge About the President's Challenge Faculty AHPRC Pilot Award Program Faculty Development Awards Haggerty Award for Research Participating Faculty Research Award Summer Faculty Fellowship and Regular Research Grants Way Klingler Research Awards 2022 Mini Grants ORSP Contact Kuali Tools and Forms Writing Resources Compliance COVID-19 Research Guidance Animal Resource Center Contact or Report Manufactured and Fabricated Devices Institutional Review Board Radiation Safety Biosafety and IBC Offices and Initiatives 707 Hub ADVANCE AHPRC Autism Initiative Clinical & Translational Science Institute Committee on Research COVID-19 Research Initiative Global Water Center Institute for Women's Leadership Kohler Center for Entrepreneurship Latina/o Well-Being Research Initiative Research Planning Workgroup Research & Compliance Research & Sponsored Programs Social Innovation Undergraduate Research Women's Innovation Network Learn More Academic Spending Resources Regular Research Grant Account Start Up Guide Grant Incentive Program High Performance Computing Marquette.edu // Office of Research and Innovation // The Explorer Challenge Explorer Challenge Report Read about the success of the Explorer Challenge over the past years in our published report. About The Explorer Challenge, formerly the Strategic Innovation Fund, invites Marquette students, faculty, and staff to submit proposals for up to $25,000 in seed money for innovative projects that make an impact and advance Beyond Boundaries, Marquette's Strategic Plan. The Explorer Challenge funds may be used for a wide variety of projects including: developing new interdisciplinary research clusters, building community and industry partnerships, funding ideas that will help the university operate more effectively or efficiently, or other potentially high impact ideas that require seed funds to test concept or build momentum. Innovation can include adaptation of existing strategies to support Marquette in new ways as well as development of brand new ideas. Projects that are interdisciplinary and which have the potential for community partnership or impact are encouraged. Recognizing that true innovation requires diverse perspectives, this year’s competition will feature a special emphasis on integrating inclusive practices into Explorer Challenge projects. Applicants will be asked to discuss the ways that their project demonstrates inclusive approaches as part of the pre-proposal and final proposal. Faculty research ideas that could normally be supported by other mechanisms, such as the Summer Faculty Fellowship, Regular Research Grants, or Way Klingler Research Awards, will typically not be competitive for funding through the Explorer Challenge. Academic program development may be eligible but the Provost’s Program Incubator may be a more appropriate source for some of these ideas. Students looking to launch entrepreneurial ventures should also explore the resources of the 707 Hub for other funding and support opportunities. Proposals should not include supplemental undergraduate financial aid. Please send questions about the fund to innovation@marquette.edu. Criteria The following are generally expected funding guidelines for The Explorer Challenge, formerly the Strategic Innovation Fund: Advance one or more of the themes in the university’s strategic plan, Beyond Boundaries. Clearly identify which theme your project will advance. Explain how your project will demonstrate inclusive approaches. Demonstrate to the reader that your project is innovative. Innovation can include adaptation of existing strategies to support Marquette in new ways as well as development of brand new ideas. Write for a general audience. Clearly define the problem or opportunity being addressed and the strategy used. Represent a cross-campus collaborative effort, as appropriate to the project. Have the potential to become financially sustainable if the project is expected to continue beyond the funding period. Demonstrate the impact of the project on Marquette and the broader community, as appropriate. Provide a set of realistic goals that can be achieved within a defined time period. The Explorer Challenge About the Explorer Challenge Process and Timeline Innovation Council Inclusive Practices FAQs Past Awardees Questions? Email us at innovation@marquette.edu Follow us online PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact innovation@marquette.edu Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©