Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? About Jill Pipher Jill Pipher is Elisha Benjamin Andrews Professor of Mathematics and has been Vice President for Research at Brown University since July 2017. As Vice President of Research, she has led a strategic expansion of research activity that has included the largest federal award in university history, for Alzheimer’s research, as well as Brown’s largest National Science Foundation award to renew funding for the Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM), of which she was founding director from 2010 to 2016. She has also steered Brown toward diversifying its research funding sources through increased focus on research development and Brown Technology Innovations. Pipher is the immediate past president of the American Mathematical Society (AMS), an organization of 30,000 members worldwide dedicated to furthering mathematics research, scholarship and education. Her two-year term as president ended January 31, 2021. For both Brown and the American Mathematical Society, she is active in advocacy about the role of research and mathematics in society, frequently speaking in Washington, D.C., and around the world. Pipher obtained her B.A. in Mathematics from UCLA in 1979 and her Ph.D. in Mathematics from UCLA in 1985. She was a Dickson Instructor and Assistant Professor at the University of Chicago before joining the faculty of Brown as Associate Professor in 1989. Pipher’s research areas include harmonic analysis, partial differential equations and lattice-based cryptography. She has frequently lectured for both specialist and general audiences at venues in the U.S. and abroad. In 2014, she was an Invited Speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians. She has published many papers in her areas of expertise and has co-authored an undergraduate cryptography textbook. She jointly holds four patents related to the NTRU encryption algorithm and was a co-founder of Ntru Cryptosystems, Inc. Pipher’s professional honors include an NSF Postdoctoral Fellowship, an NSF Presidential Young Investigator Award, and an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellowship. She was an inaugural Fellow of the American Mathematical Society, served as President of the Association for Women in Mathematics from 2011 to 2013, and was a National Women’s History Month 2013 Honoree. In 2015, she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in 2019 she was elected as Fellow of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematicians. Jill-Pipher-CV.pdf Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Staff Contact Information About Jill Pipher Reports Research Advisory Board Organizational Charts Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat