Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Marketing + Communications Marketing + Communications right arrow down arrow Creative + Brand right arrow down arrow Photo + Video right arrow down arrow Photocatalog Brand + Design right arrow down arrow University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Digital + User Experience right arrow down arrow Analytics Web (AEM) right arrow down arrow Accessibility Digital Governance right arrow down arrow DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide right arrow down arrow Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social right arrow down arrow Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Marketing + Advertising Media + Content right arrow down arrow UC News UC Magazine Media Contacts Resources right arrow down arrow Push Forward Push Forward Toolkit Contact Home » About UC » Marketing + Communications » Digital + User Experience » Web (AEM) » Web Policy Set Navigation title in component Analytics Web (AEM) Accessibility Digital Governance DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Web Policy All official Web pages must comply with this Web Policy and the UC Branding Standards. Official Web pages provide official information about the to the public, regardless of the server on which they are located. The dean, department or organization head is ultimately responsible for the content of his/her area’s official UC site. All/any websites housed on UC Web servers must comply with all local, state and federal laws. Web pages that contain protected or sensitive data may be displayed only if the page is secured by industry-standard encryption/protection techniques, behind password protection, and the application architecture has been reviewed and approved by Information Security. For questions regarding information security, contact infosec@uc.edu (513-558-4732). Failure to comply with this policy may result in enforcement. Branding, Design and Content Standards. Design of websites must comply with UC’s the UC Digital Brand Guide including, but not limited to the following: every page of the site must contain the UC logo in a prominent location at the top of the page; the UC logo must contain appropriate safe space; the UC logo must be a link to UC’s home page (www.uc.edu); the primary colors of the site must be red (#E00122), black (#000000) and white (#ffffff); the pages must contain branding “architecture” in addition to the UC logo. Consult the UC Digital Brand Guide for additional details. All sites within a major unit’s (e.g. a college) website must maintain a consistent look as directed by the dean, vice president or director/manager of the unit. Sites should be designed with a width of 960 pixels to provide consistency across UC sites. Sites should be designed to enable content to adjust to varied output devices (e.g., mobile devices) and print-ready formats. Any UC website designed by any person or vendor other than the university’s Governmental Relations & University Communications division, must be submitted to the Brand Review Committee (c/o: Angela Klocke) for adherence to the documented brand standards. Accessibility All web content should follow the general POUR principle where content is Perceivable Operable Understandable Robust. Several resources are available on the Accessibility Network website regarding web accessibility best practices. Links and Campus-Wide Information The unit name within the top graphic banner must link to your home page. All sites within the AEM Web content management system will include the “UC Emergency” component, which will display emergency notifications when deemed appropriate by the UC Public Safety director. The information will display above the content and top banner of the website. Other major university sites (e.g. college sites) not in AEM should incorporate a similar solution. Contact Information Identify the unit and department in the unit heading area of every page. All pages of the website must provide building location, mailing address, zip code, phone number, e-mail address/link and, optionally, office hours in the footer. Format should follow as shown: Name of Department or Division University of Cincinnati Name of Physical Location/Building PO Box 21XXX Cincinnati, Ohio 45221 University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top